ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4329	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In March 2014, the Parliamentary Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as preventing Strache, Dr. Nachbaur and Dr. Hübner. [[09:05:38]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4363	==References====External links== A meeting has been announced by the Federal Electoral Authority that the Members are Magistrate. Laura Rudas waived her mandate. Dr. Christoph Matznetter was appointed to the National Council at her place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. Please, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4396	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4417	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4433	I very much welcome the honourable Member in our midst.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4459	Mrs. Klub's chairman, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4480	Madam President. The Green Group raises objections to the agenda and I request that a debate be held on it. We would like to know the item on the agenda 11 as the first item on the agenda today. As I believe many in the House know, this is a very important report from the Court of Auditors, which examined the whole question of the banking interests of the Republic of Austria and which was also very critical. This is, as we know, a subject which is currently being very strongly debated in the public, and we would have thought it worth considering today as the first point. I therefore request a debate on this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4513	You heard the objections. I am not in favour of the objections that have been raised, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the joint debate held pursuant to § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I limit the speaking time to 5 minutes and the number of speakers to three per club. The debate and the vote on the objections will be held after the current hour. I announce that the current hour will be transferred live from ORF 2 to 10.20; ORF III will be transferred to the full-length meeting. [[09:07:51]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4552	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “TTIP: Facts on the table. Stop the erodement of environmental and social standards by means of a European-American free trade agreement.’ First of all, Mrs. Klubobfrau, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4579	Madam President. Good morning, Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, Barack Obama meets with the European Union's leaders for the first time in Brussels. Of course, the main issue will be the Crimean crisis and the question of dealing with Russia. But another important point, which is also being discussed in Brussels today, is the question of speeding up the negotiations on the so-called Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement. It is about accelerating this, intensifying it and also making pressure towards completion. We have done this today on the topic of the current hour, because this free trade agreement affects a total of 800 million people – Europeans, Americans – and because all these people are deprived of an essential freedom to know what is being negotiated. They will be deprived of an essential right, namely freedom of information. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Austrian Federal Government is also participating in this withdrawal of freedom, in this withdrawal of the right, to know what is being negotiated. We don't have a single document in our hands to this day. We do not know what the negotiating mandate is, nor do we know what the position of the Austrian Federal Government in all these questions is. In the end, however, it is about profound changes, from federal policy to national policy to the smallest municipality in Austria. That's why we want to put light in the dark today. We took advantage of a new parliamentary opportunity 13 days ago, namely the request for documents – that is a right under the Treaty of Lisbon, which has not yet been applied in this form. We have, by means of this right – and this is a constitutionally guaranteed right – called on the Federal Government to transmit the documents. That's 13 days ago. The deadline ends the day after tomorrow. We have not received any paper to this day. I would already be interested, Federal Chancellor, in why you are a hundred percent involved in this confidentiality policy and that mystery, this withdrawal of rights – the right to information – from the EU Commission downwards also in Austria. To this end, I would like to make a statement from you today. The official justification for this intelligencestango is completely absurd: The other side of the negotiation – that is, the Americans – does not want to be looked into the cards. So, no later than after the hearing in the EU Commission and in the European Parliament, where the Americans have been shown to pioneer on the NSA in addition to European data, information and negotiating papers, this argument is probably more than absurd! It is also extremely worrying that there is no transparency on all these issues. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One reason for this secrecy will probably also be the fear of massive resistance, namely by the parliaments – by the way, there is resistance already in the United States Congress and in the House of Deputies – against the fact that one is not prepared to seriously discuss the profound effects of this agreement: What does this mean for our food, for our food production, for our social standards, for our cultural policy, for our legal system and also for our understanding of direct democracy? It has not been a question of liberalising trade in goods and services for a long time, but it is a question of quite different questions, and these are answered very differently in Europe and in America. In Europe we have drawn our lessons from various food scandals. We remember when animal carcasses were fed to cattle and then the BSE crisis broke out. We have drawn our teachings and no longer use antibiotics in animal feed, because then drugs are shown to become ineffective and antibiotic resistance appears. We have drawn our lessons and do not want very few seed companies to have the entire variety of seeds centrally, as is the case in the USA with Monsanto and Pioneer. In Europe, we have introduced a very important principle in all areas of justice, namely the precautionary principle, for good reason. Products may only be placed on the market and in the hands of people – whether they are children or older people – if it is tested that they are not harmful. This is completely different in the United States. That is where the risk principle applies. Products may not be removed from the market until the risk has been established. As a mother of two children, I say: I prefer strict chemical guidelines rather than having to check afterwards whether the material was toxic in the baby schnuller or in the baby drink bottle or whether this or that food might have triggered an allergy. I am in favour of this precautionary principle, and I would like this to be done by you too, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Refusal torphere.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Agriculture has a very different role in Austria and throughout Europe as part of our culture than it is in America. We have businesses that are not larger than the smallest in the USA. Let me give you a few figures: There is no farm throughout Europe that has more than 800 or 1 000 bovine animals. There are farms with up to 40 000 cattle in the United States. In the United States, the slaughterhouses have concentrated from 10,000 farms to 3,000. They're organized like cities. The largest slaughtering group in the United States kills 42 million chickens, 170 000 cattle and 350 000 pigs per week! This is only to illustrate what has been done in these regions for industrialization. We have gone a different way in Europe for good reason, with small-structured agriculture and with the use of organic farming and organic farming. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The topic of public procurement: We have fought very much in Austria for there to be organic products in the childcare facilities, in the nursing homes, in the nursing homes for older people – healthy, regional organic products! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] All of this is called into question if the subject is to be subjected exclusively to commercial interests. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – You might find this a little funny now. But you should take the issue a little more seriously, I would like to tell you seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kogler: A symbol of the ÖVP: The one who knows the least, screams the most!]] However, the Free Trade Agreement also goes into other areas, such as climate policy and fracking. If you have dealt seriously with climate change, you know that fracking is a completely missing way. In Europe, fracking is prohibited in many countries, and imports of shale gas are not allowed. Now I wonder what that means when it comes to the free trade agreement at once. Is this the liquidation of our climate policy? Cultural policy is also a very exciting question. How to deal with our film diversity? We have dozens of languages in Europe. Each country has its own variations in cultural diversity in film, book – book pricing! - or theatre. All of this is not commercialized, all this is publicly promoted. All of this is on the negotiating agenda of this free trade agreement. Water privatisation through the back door: Do you think it is excluded that there is also a negotiating mandate in these areas? According to our information, there is a negotiating mandate on precisely these services, such as water supply, as well as education. If you think differently and if you say that's just fears, then just put the negotiating documents on the table! To this day you haven't done that. Then we can talk seriously. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Loacker.]] Now we come to a very central point and a very central responsibility – also of you personally, Mr. Federal Chancellor! In order to enforce all this in order to enforce all these commercialisation interests for corporations, there is a very central point in this agreement, namely, a special case law, which is located outside the regular jurisdiction, the ordinary jurisdiction. These are arbitration courts where companies can charge investment losses directly to states. This has happened very often in other parts of this world, mostly to the detriment of the population and to the benefit of a group – outside the state jurisdiction! But now you need massive explanation. There was a debate with an American chief negotiator here in this house. We have received a document from the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicating that the Austrian position actually supports this arbitration outside the regular jurisdiction. [[Abg. Kogler: Incredible!]] That is, an intransparent procedure without public, without verifiability, carried out by specialized lawyers of corporations, parallel to our ordinary jurisdiction. From my point of view, you have a massive need for explanation: Is that really the Austrian position? In Germany, your colleague Gabriel now sees this completely different. He sees this special jurisdiction as the point at which Germany should leave or place a veto. My question to She's here today. Where are you? Where are you on this question? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to read to you the passage from this paper, if you do not know it: ‘Such provisions are by default part of investment protection agreements including those concluded by Austria with other countries. Accordingly, Austria is also in favour of such provisions in the TTIP.’ We would like to have an information here, and I also ask you to change your position, should it really be the Federal Chancellor's position and not just that of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4701	In order to give an introductory opinion, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4723	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mrs Club President Eva Glavischnig correctly said, Europe has higher standards in terms of social, but also in terms of environmental issues – and in some areas even significantly better and significantly higher standards – than the United States. Austria can also, within the European Union, when it comes to the question of food, when it comes to genetic engineering, when it comes to other essential issues of environmental policy, rightly insist that we do not have the better standards in all, but in very essential and very many areas. So if we are discussing competition in common markets, we are actually immediately asking whether a strengthened common market provides sufficient protection for what is so essential to us in this common market. So it is not a question of denying that there is a common market – in the European Union of 500 million people and in the United States of America of 300 million, that is, 800 million people in total – because that was to deny the daily reality already existing, the question is: What is the effect of a trade agreement and is it necessary at all? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] It simply raises the question of the common market and the mutual influence in the shelf, in the supermarket or in the facility. Trade in goods and goods between the countries of the European Union and the United States has an amount of €2 billion a day. So it is not true that we now have to find out whether this common market exists, the question is: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Treasure]] Are there advantages of a trade agreement – a possible trade agreement – in the conditions that are now in place, in the strict environmental policy and in the other strict conditions we represent Austrians, even from our point of view? Can there be improvements for the European economy in the field of admission procedures and mutual recognition? Now there are a number of business professionals who say: Yes, this can bring in Austria an increase of 800 000 jobs in areas... [[Abg. Kogler: 800,000?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Treasure]] 800 000 jobs – not millions, but 800 000 jobs – bring to areas that are only positive. [[Abg. Kogler: That's impossible!]] [[Abg. Kogler: This is impossible to think!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Look at this. If there is the possibility of extending trade relations in a common market, which exists, in the course of a discussion, which makes sense, we will agree with Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinhauser.]] If we believe that a trade agreement – or an investment protection agreement through the back door – does not deserve that name, but is actually a deterioration agreement for environmental and social standards, then we will not agree to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] I will instruct my Federal Chancellery to re-examine the confidentiality of documents – I myself have no secrets – which I may pass on. I promise you, however, that I will not orient myself to the NSA, but to the laws that I am obliged to do. I am therefore saying this because Mrs Glavischnig asked about the role of confidentiality and data protection in NSA times. – I am oriented to our laws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] But what I ask – a question where I agree with you, where I see a high degree of agreement with you – is the transparency of this discussion. I also expressly welcome the interruption of the investment protection negotiations in order to conduct the public discussion with social partners, NGOs and workers' representatives. This interruption was important, it is necessary and is intended to create clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This can't be a secret agreement! This is already contrary to the entire decision-making process and, of course, to the necessary final process, in which Parliaments and the public, too, are, of course, quite open and transparent to be informed. I stress and support this and see it as an improvement in current practice, and I must say that the current interruption is a very important issue where the back door threatens to introduce a lot of things, which we do not want to do, in connection with the so-called Investment Protection Agreement. But let me also say something about the Investment Protection Agreement: It is also Austrian companies that are constantly seeing investment protection agreements, which already exist with other countries, as a security to protect the investments they make. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, do we need this in Europe? It's more...!]] [[Abg. Kogler: An American meat company that needs a little security!]] I assume that these 60 investment protection agreements, which exist, have been the cause of being able to defend themselves if someone, like this, is being discussed again and again in Hungary, simply destroys the investment of others by law. However, the Investment Protection Agreement is by no means – and against such an abuse of the content and also the real meaning and purpose of an Investment Protection Agreement – a hidden back door to privatisation of water, to deterioration of environmental protection or social conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This back door is to be paid close attention! [[Abg. Kogler: Just as brave as during transit! The transit negotiations: very successful!]] In order to show respect for the House also in terms of time, I can only tell you one more thing: I have discussions on the basis of our standards, our environmental and social standards. More market, more opportunities for Austrian and European companies are objectives that must not be contrary to our social and environmental standards.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4920	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour should not exceed 5 minutes, according to Rules of Procedure. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4945	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called TTIP, which is currently being negotiated between the US and the EU, is not the first attempt at a free trade agreement – there have already been previous calls, however, which have failed in the resistance of the parliaments and also in the face of an outraged public. This time the Commission or the Council of Trade Ministers wanted it particularly skillfully and discreetly and did not cause premature excitement, but in view of the intense discussions, it is already to be asked whether this was the right strategy, whether it would no longer bring more transparency into the dark, and whether the almost over-examination of mystery would strengthen the formation of myths, the distrust and, of course, the fear of fear. It is important to consider exactly what is in the fear that the agreement could eliminate all consumer/consumer protection standards, worker/employer protection standards, environmental standards and social standards on the U.S. detour – that is, achievements that we and our ancestors and ancestors have fought hard and which, of course, also represent an inheritance for us to preserve and develop. That is why, and I am very grateful to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for his clarification, we really need to consider in detail whether there are no pitfalls in this agreement, there are risks, there are risks for workers, for consumers, for environmental standards and even for our entire quality of life. It is truly not made easy for us, and I am glad that this is where we intend to bring more transparency from Austria into the entire negotiating structure. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There is no transparency yet!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] I have therefore also put a parliamentary question to the responsible Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner, who is directly involved in the Council negotiations as Minister of State. At this stage, this is not the chancellor yet, and all the more so, it is also to be appreciated that the Federal Chancellor is personally asking these questions, because it has not yet landed at his level, so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] However, I will also give you the answers of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The Minister of Economic Affairs – also supported by a study – assumes that the gross domestic product could increase by 1.7 percent in Austria, and that the result could be 1 percent higher wages. This would also increase employment by 0.5 percent, which is about 20 000 jobs, in Austria. – So this is a very optimistic estimate, and the Minister of Economic Affairs assumes that Austria could benefit disproportionately from the agreement. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Very optimistic!]] I would just like to leave this number in the room, because I cannot verify or even disprove it from here, but with all the opportunities there might be – I say this really very hypothetical – I have to exclude the following points for myself: Social and environmental objectives must not be subordinated to economics. [[Abg. Kickl: That's how the whole EU works!]] The higher level of working conditions, consumer protection standards, environmental protection must not be undermined under the title of so-called non-tariff trade barriers or whatever. – So that needs to be ensured anyway. We certainly do not want chlorinated chickens in Austria, no hormone chips and no genmais! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] There must be no doubt about it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The right of States to policy-making of living conditions according to the principles of democracy and subsidiarity must, of course, be safeguarded. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] Of course, wage dumping must be excluded, and it is also to be demanded by the USA that they finally sign the ILO agreements. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] And it must not be allowed to introduce ACTA through the back door. In any case, this and much more need to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5060	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time has expired. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5084	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The topic of free trade is now more critically commented. If the benefits of such free trade agreements have been seen in the past, such agreements are now being questioned more publicly, and rightly so. The fears are often that high standards are falling, that there is transparency that ultimately there is also a lower influence of politics and - as some horror fears so to speak - multinational corporations in the silent chamber determine politics. [[Call the Greens: Right!]] These concerns of a very wide variety also exist in this present free trade agreement between the EU and the United States. For Austria it is clear: These concerns must be taken seriously. It must not be that our high standards are falling, not only in environmental protection, in animal welfare, in the health field, but also in product safety and not in labour law. These high standards must be secured and must not be replaced. We have also deposited this in a round of parliamentarians of all political groups. The chief negotiator of the United States was here in Parliament, and we have also clearly deposited this: no fall in the high standards of the European Union and Austria. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] I mentioned the cracks from the Austrian point of view. – There are concerns in the sanitary and phytosanitary field: In the US, it is common for meat or milk to be traded from cloned animals; we in Europe reject it. The same applies to genetic engineering: We do not want to see simplifications in the authorisation procedures of genetically modified seed. Hormonal treatment: In the U.S., it is going on and there that cattle and pigs are measured with hormones; in Europe this is forbidden. This is not only a rejection of the farmers, but also a rejection of the consumers. They don't want that. Poultry meat: Poultry meat is chlor-treated in the United States after slaughter to deganize it, with us it is forbidden. With us, the slaughtered poultry is cleaned with water, and due to the conditions of the breeding, the germ exposure is lower. I am saying this because, on the one hand, we have a small-structured agriculture that could not withstand such a competition with hormones and genetic engineering, but on the other hand, not only do farmers want this, but consumers also reject it. That is why this is a central point in the negotiations. That's what Austria has deposited and it's going to work for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] And of course there are also concerns about the precautionary principle. It has been mentioned: With us, a product may not be traded until it is safe. – In the USA, it is not like this: In the US, products can come into trade, and if it only turns out that they are unsafe, then there are problems. That is also to be rejected. [[Abg. Kogler: But why is this item of negotiation at all?]] The precautionary principle serves as a protection for consumers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] It is critical that there are arbitration procedures that allow investors to sue countries outside national courts. It is common practice that there are such possibilities in investment protection agreements, and there is the accusation that there is, as it were, a primacy of the corporations that policy cannot act here and that the scope of policy is narrowed. It is therefore clear to us that such investment protection clauses, which would be negative, are to be rejected. The European Parliament, the representatives of the Austrian People's Party in the European Parliament, have made this clear. Finally, the European Parliament agrees with or does not, and they have said clearly: If European law is removed, then the European Parliament will not agree. I support this and we support it. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of NEOS representatives.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Super!]] But the European Commission has also responded to the criticism. Commissioner for Trade De Gucht, in view of the concerns of NGOs and civil society, said: Stop the negotiations and there will be public consultations. For three months, all parties have the opportunity to address their concerns in a transparent process. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Because EU elections are!]] – I think it is necessary to get in here publicly. There are not only concerns, however, but also the positive aspects: A common economic area of around 800 million people is created. The € 2 billion daily will be traded between the USA and the European Union. Experts say that if the Free Trade Agreement exists, our positions, those of Europe and the United States, can also be strengthened against emerging economic powers such as China, Russia and the other countries. Austria is also an export-oriented country, and we are interested in reasonable free trade, because many jobs in Austria are created by exports; on the other hand, we import raw materials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] That is why there should be fair agreements. And it is also a perspective for small and medium-sized enterprises – we have deposited this with the chief negotiator – and that is also necessary. Many experts say that GDP would rise, that the number of jobs is increasing. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That may be. The Free Trade Agreement is intended to serve everyone. It is important that it is transparent that our high standards are maintained, that there is no abuse in the case of investment protection mechanisms, and that Parliaments, including the Austrian Parliament, are involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5199	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5220	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor, that's nice, that's nice if You tell us here that you do not have access to NSA documents and therefore you cannot give the House precise information about what is actually in the detail of material content of this agreement. The fact is, Mr Bundeskanzler, that there is a huge free trade agreement behind closed doors between representatives of the European Commission, paired and surrounded by lobbyists, and on the other hand, a huge free trade agreement is being established between US authorities and elected representatives of the people, parliaments, civil society, environmental protection organisations, consumer protection organisations and not even in the approach – not even in the approach! – to be informed of what is actually being debated. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If you say here that you would represent the Austrian position and would like to receive environmental and social standards et cetera, I would ask myself the question: With whom, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, do you speak during these negotiations? [[Call the FPÖ:Obama!]] With whom, Mr Berlakovich, do you speak and establish the Austrian position? And who are you talking to, ladies and gentlemen, about the Social Democrats? – You don’t talk to anyone at all because you’re not involved at all! [[Abg. Kogler: He won't even leave the house again!]] You're here like the rabbit in front of the snake: They are waiting for what will be negotiated in further consequence, and they will swallow it just as in all areas. What is being negotiated here is not some side-by-side agreement, but it is one of the biggest trade agreements that has ever existed. And in addition to the negotiations between the United States and Europe, parallel negotiations are taking place with eleven other countries, especially the Pacific, in order to enable a huge free trade area. It is true that our standards are higher than those in other countries. You can’t do that either and just say: We don't want chlorinated chickens and we don't want hormone meat, but these positions need to explain you somewhere. As a condition, you have to promise this to people's representatives, consumers' representatives and environmental organisations. - You can't. There is a very significant difference between America and Europe in the philosophy of production: In America, the use of chemicals is permitted for so long as it is not proven that these chemicals are harmful. Fortunately, in Europe we have the reverse path, namely that things are forbidden for so long, as long as it has not been shown that they are not harmful to health. And since going to a negotiating position where one tries to harmonise two different systems – but harmonize in the sense of a levelling – that is madness, and this will lead to a massive reduction in our living standards and food standards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, look at how in America food production works! The representatives of the Social Democrats have here addressed the chlorinated hens – this is a little bit regarded as a polemic argumentation, but that is not an argument that has polemics, but that is a common standard of production in the USA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] There are huge poultry pups that are still growing and growing, and on the other hand there is an increase in slaughter intervals. The number of battles per minute is increased to three times, and so the number of battles is screwed up. [[Abg. Kogler: That's all right! Who needs that?]] And to neutralize the germs created by this mass animal farming, these slaughtered chickens come into a chlorination bath. The whole thing is unworthy, is unappetising, but it increases profit. It makes it possible to get meat even cheaper on the plate. The question is how to do this. In America, innumerable procedures are being carried out by employees in these slaughterhouses, where the dead chickens are treated with chlorine and sprayed because the employees have become ill. So, as an elected Austrian representative, I now have an interest in knowing to what extent government representatives in America on the one hand and Commission representatives on the other are putting in place regulations here in order to implement a free trade agreement which will subsequently enable precisely these production methods, which will enable hormone additives and will also bring the food modified by genetic engineering to our plates. When I remember, Federal Chancellor: We have been promised once: Austria is the fine food shop of Europe. – That's been there a long time, Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Beings!]] – Being, absolutely right! [[Abg. Berlakovich: Austria is the fine food shop, proven!]] Today, however, we are developing into a system where it is only a matter of implementing corporate interests to the maximum, all that is annoying – people's representatives, population, environmental organisations, consumer protection organisations – to keep out there, at the expense of our high quality – last sentence, Madam President! – here, to enable profits for corporations to screw up exports and minimize the quality of what is landing on our counters. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again]] No, no, no, Make that clear, put in a veto!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5339	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5360	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! What's wrong with a free trade agreement? – Even again, the idolatrousness of freedom shines against us, even though in fact there is compulsion. Where is the freedom, if American corporations can undermine Austrian law and assert themselves with a special jurisdiction against our codes, which are particularly positive by all of you? - That's threatening! You can't discuss that away, Federal Chancellor. That's what we're going to do. Minister Berlakovich – yes, because of the Ministry of Life, then I will come back to what this is about with food and what threatens us here. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exminister!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Ex!]] To all the speakers who have now somehow understood this as an opportunity and who have given the whole litany of the positive standards in Austria and Europe: If you look at the backgrounds of this thing, you will realize that you can use your calendar statements to make a maximum of the Hergot angle. It's just like that! That won't help! On credibility and transparency, only at the beginning, and again the “fine” role of Austria: Negotiating 13. June. Where were we? – The Minister, then responsible for Foreign Minister Spindelegger, was not there anyway. That wouldn't be new. The ambassador was there. In principle, this is not unusual, although we, this Parliament and the population, which the Federal Government always confirms and holds in office, would have expected us and deserved us that the Minister is there and at least says something. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and Members Dietrich and Strolz.]] But no! The core competence of the Federal Government, the old as well as the new: sitting out, silent, diving – perhaps even under the table, then you can still combine sitting out and diving, sporty. That's it! The Ambassador did what? – He said no word, and the negotiations started. Austria: zero message! Zero, cute, nothing – that's our role! And in October it was like that again. The French demanded something reasonable. The French have said: Let's at least make this transparent! No matter which side you stand on, we make it transparent! We would only make fun of ourselves if we said that we would let the opponents of the negotiations – or partners, as you would like to see it – look at the cards. This argument has been put forward. But if, as it were, everything that a government does is already lighted up, then we can also rely on the fact that – if anything is certain – the other side knows. You won't be as naïve and pretend that the opposite side doesn't know that. But yet you take this senseless argument to wall. And who? – In front of the national parliaments, in front of the European Parliament, these are the representatives of the people, and in front of the people themselves. And that is precisely the reason why the project Europe is so stupid that the Union is so stupid, although it is actually something. And you have to answer that with your cover-up and cover policy! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Mlinar.]] Where's the transparency? – Not available. Mr Bundeskanzler, the confusion continues, only at a curiose level. They will not all say seriously that 800 000 jobs are generated in Austria alone. That's Voodoo! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] You've been misadvised. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: In Europe!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Europe!]] On this matter is only a little free and a lot of compulsion. A fair trade agreement would be a success. But then I wonder, What do we need the food sector – and I will come back to it again – in this agreement? What is so bad about food in Europe that there is a need to improve something in exchange, where it is quite clear that in other parts of the world, especially in North America, genetic engineering, chlorine and so on, do they dominate? That's the question! Similar questions exist in connection with energy and water. Now again to the central point, so-called investment protection. Negotiations are not even properly interrupted; if at all, only because of the elections. It will continue to be negotiated, no decision will be taken, and this is the next curved tour that will take place here. That's where you should look more closely, in case you believe it again. After your speech today, I assume that you are not so busy, so I can only invite you to take a closer look at it. With regard to these special jurisdictions: That's the biggest poison! The large corporations already have power over the states – we are always sorry, especially in financial and banking policy. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right! Now it's still coming!]] This would give you another weapon, against the population, against the standards we have if you don't hold back. And since everything that has happened so far weakens credibility, that you really resist here, as you claim, the alarm is so necessary and loud. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] In reality and finally, it is about the need for an independent, economically strong, yes, but at our own feet. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] This will generate social justice and environmental sustainability. There we have to – and not in this cloud – continue to glamour ourselves!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5505	Mrs Weigerstorfer has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5526	Madam President. High house! If you follow this discussion, you actually have to say: Nothing can happen anyway, it will look after us anyway! – In this case, however, I lack faith. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Correct Summary!]] It is really one of the biggest free trade agreements in history. And right now Obama is in Brussels and is negotiating the further procedures. I trust to bet now that at the end of today we will not get any information on this matter again. I have to say: In principle, trade and job creation are a bit incredibly positive, but in the case of TTIP, the risk of risk coming is much, much higher than that of opportunities. Let's look at the whole world trade situation: A third of world trade takes place between the USA and Europe. And the creation of this agreement is always subject to customs duties, but these are only 3.4 percent. Let's look back in history. The NAFTA experiences have already shown that the promises have not been fulfilled. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] That is to say, wage dumping and job destruction have come to fruition. This is the agreement between Canada, Mexico and the USA, which was already sold to the public under the cover of economic growth. I find the term 'free trade agreements' to be incredibly misleading because it is no longer about customs duties. [[Congratulations on Team Stronach and Greens]] It's about a lot, much more. It's about power, regulation, and standards. And here in Europe, we have God, thanks to some standards that we absolutely need to keep. We have already heard some facts; I would like to make you a little bit more of a gusto. For example, the chlorhendl was addressed today. It's true that the USA is the world's largest poultry producer, and this chlorine is strong enough to eat concrete. I'm telling you quite honestly: I don't want to eat it, and I'll be careful to give it to my children! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] Hormonal meat is always in the room. I would like to put a number to you to underline this: 80 percent of all cattle in the U.S. have received hormones, and that has been for 60 years! This TTIP is also a gateway for me, which is opened not only to genetic engineering, but also to companies like Monsanto in Europe. And when I hear Monsanto, then – I have to tell you quite honestly – all the alarm bells are ringing at me; I hope, with you too. We brought all the political groups to a table yesterday in a short action and discussed this subject in the presence of media. I would like to thank you once again for this incredibly fast and flexible cooperation, and I would also like to put it as an impulse in the room, because that should actually be the way politics can and should work – with one corner or another edge. But this cooperation yesterday, I believe, has proved that there are issues that simply need to be dealt with over-participally. What's the trouble with this TTIP: There is a lack of information, there is no transparency, not only on the EU side, but also on the US side. It is also an attack on the basic principles of our democracy: And on the other hand, I defend myself! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And if the people are completely excluded during negotiations, I think healthy scepticism is a very good answer to that. We all agree on the point: TTIP is an agreement that is highly controversial and that contains a number of unexplained questions. The people do not know what it is all about and are forced to make their views out of rumors, warnings and promises. That is why I would like to encourage a survey to be held on this issue – of course, all parties have to agree to it, but overall, when it comes to environmental and consumer standards, we are of the opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5600	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5621	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Much has been interpreted in the position of NEOS in recent weeks, as regards the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement, so I would like to see the opportunity here today to clarify: We NEOS consider free trade to be an essential factor in economic design opportunities and we are clearly committed to trade as one of the most important guarantees of peaceful cooperation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In addition, I would also like to say very clearly, especially for the citizens outside this House: We NEOS will not support a TTIP, as it is currently present, at national or European level. We lack transparency on the one hand, and we are very clearly calling on the European Commission, which is negotiating, to make every effort to maximize the participation of citizens. All Members of the European Parliament as legitimate representatives of the citizens must be fully informed of the negotiations, for one thing is clear: Negotiations behind closed doors will simply not be supported by the public. Secondly, we lack acceptable conditions for resolving disputes. It is clear that international investment requires an efficient dispute resolution mechanism, and the transatlantic partnership could have a global role model here. We believe that investment disputes should in principle first be decided by state courts in the US or the European Union. We believe that there should be an option between the use of national legal remedies and international investment arbitration. Any form of arbitration must respect international standards, such as human rights and environmental standards, which go beyond investment law. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] For us, too, an International Commercial Court, such as the International Sea Court, would be imaginable. Thirdly, high standards are needed. We support a set of high transatlantic standards that are based on the highest standard. We believe that areas where agreement at this high level is not possible should be excluded from the Treaty. TTIP could indeed be a way of giving globalisation a European standard, a European touch. We believe that globalisation is not to be feared, but to form. From the global point of view, I would like to look at the European and Austrian perspectives regarding TTIP as an example of small and medium-sized enterprises, because 99 percent of all European companies are SMEs, nine of which are SMEs. Ten are small businesses, and in the EU about 20 million. 66 percent of all jobs in Europe are provided by these 20 million SMEs. And 85 percent of all jobs created in the last ten years were created by these small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we call for this very central backbone of the European and Austrian economies to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises and their representations are better integrated into the negotiations on this TTIP. We demand an ambitious negotiating chapter on small and medium-sized enterprises in TTIP, which strengthens the foundation of our economy. Finally, we demand a reform of arbitration and investment protection in a way that the way to arbitration is also viable and financially possible for small and medium-sized enterprises and that SMEs can ultimately take advantage of the same legal certainty as they are available to large groups. In this sense: Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5691	Mr. Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5713	Madam President. High house! Look, we don't have to attack each other here. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: After what the Faymann said!]] If such negotiations take place on a free trade zone, then America naturally wants us to link our standards, our system to the American, so that they can find more favourable conditions – and we don't want it; that's so simple. Who adapts to whom? – This is the central issue in these negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Second point: What surprises me a lot is: The greens draw some pictures here and at the same time regret that there is transparency and that you don't know anything anyway. – You have to be a seer, Mr Kogler, because you stand out here, know the entire course of the negotiations, paint apocalyptic images on the wall, believe that the negotiators who sit in the government are eco traitors and social traitors, and then almost go back with a moralinsaur face and sit down. – I think that’s an ugly way to approach the matter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's Christoph Leitl more honest. Christoph Leitl is the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and is now in a broadcast saying that he wants and wants the agreement. – Okay, you can focus on that! He does not talk big about how, what, where, but holds clearly as a representative of the Chamber of Commerce what he thinks. [[Abg. Kogler: What are you doing?]] I can say that right now! [[Abg. Kogler: Say something about transparency!]] I say to you: Of course, there will be studies now. As 800,000 jobs in Europe will be mentioned, it will mean that milk and honey will flow and wages will rise. And it is the task of policy to look at the studies and examine them and evaluate whether or not to do so. But what certainly doesn't go – I think you can say in all clarity – is: It must not be intrusive. Parliaments must be involved! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Then please come here with the documents!]] Look, it's only beginning in March! You can now only want to know what the documents, the documents and the negotiating mandates look like, but you can't claim results yet, because they don't exist. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Pack this picture again! She's not here yet! It's clear what we can discuss today. The Federal Chancellor has clearly said what is going on and what is not going on. You should accept this once if you decide so clearly! I would like to say the following: Intransparency must not be, there must be a public discussion. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How about arbitration?]] As you can see, I position myself quite clearly! This transparency, if the national parliaments, the European Parliament and all the media are involved, is a natural condition and a very essential point. The negotiating mandate must also describe the limits that the Commission has to comply with. It is important – and this is especially important for us Social Democrats – that social, ecological and economic matters be treated equally. Member of Parliament Kogler, as follows: That says everything and is a clear definition anyway! [[Abg. Kogler: You do not even disclose the mandate!]] There is talk of the protection of personal data and the protection of copyright. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The mandate is not transparent!]] Don't polemize! I quote from a decision of the Vienna municipal council of SPÖ and Greens. You should break out in jubilation about what I'm quoting right now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is called the anchoring of the right to comprehensive regulatory powers that there must be no attack on the common good objectives, human rights, women's rights, minority rights, financial market regulation, tax policy and social standards. There's no millimeter giving up! We are not a benefactor for the American economy, but we want what we have fought for in the EU to be further developed that this is developing a global force for world trade to be based on these criteria in Europe. What we do not want, on the other hand, is that you are constantly trying to influence us in our optimistic approach with such depressive speeches. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Incredible!]] I think that's crucial. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] By the way: Why didn't you want Minister Mitterlehner to appear at this present hour? He is the Minister responsible and has the mandate to negotiate! There are now a lot of questions that could be asked to the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] You're looking so smartly at me right now! Why? – Mr. Bundeskanzler always comes and likes to come, but Mr. Mitterlehner would also like to come. He didn't deserve him not to sit here today and comment on it! I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5893	Mrs. Dr. Minzig has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5915	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Negotiations on this free trade agreement are among the most extensive, economically important and, of course, one of the most complicated and delicate of all that the European Commission is facing. This is more than a usual trade agreement, as it aims to integrate two huge economic blocks, which have at least 45 percent of global economic performance. This not only gives the chance to develop economic growth in the EU, but also the opportunity to set global standards, perhaps for the last time before the emerging economies of Asia and Latin America impose their standards. – Amazingly, in this context, the Bavarian President of the Greens, Janecek, has the hope that this Free Trade Agreement will set higher environmental and consumer standards. International trade and investment abroad are the engine of economic growth for the EU and Austria, and it is also about securing jobs, as one billion exports also means 15 000 additional jobs. The majority of this trade concerns three sectors – vehicles, motors and chemicals – and thus leads to high intra-industrial trade. Access to these markets is quite different. For example, the chemical sector in Europe is more than three times as restricted by non-tariff barriers as in the US, while exports to the US in the machinery sector are hampered by an average of 46 percent additional barriers to trade. SMEs have already been addressed: An own SME chapter is also included in this agreement, since SMEs on both sides of the Atlantic provide for the majority of employment. However, because of the high barriers, SMEs cannot offer themselves as easily overseas as possible. European SMEs are better placed and will claim better than their American colleagues, who are mainly active in the home market. [[Abg. Kogler: Which chapter is this?]] In Europe, a third of SMEs are already exporting abroad, and half of these are also exported overseas. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: How do you know that?]] [[Abg. Kogler: Can you provide this chapter to the National Council?]] Of course, there are different worlds of life in this agreement, we have already heard that, and the Investment Protection Agreement is also in criticism. But the Commission is now taking the criticism seriously, as one could say earlier in the ‘FAZ’. It will make investment protection much closer, it will make it more transparent. Commissioner for Trade Karel de Gucht will present a consultation paper, in which there is no doubt that the EU and its Member States remain free to draw up rules for the protection of citizens. Associations are not only to gain insight into actions that companies can make on the basis of this investment protection against States, but are able to bring themselves directly into the proceedings. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who wrote this speech to you?]] In addition, the Commissioner wants to prevent the emergence of a genuine industries of action, which, of course, concerns the complaining US group. It is clear that our entrepreneurs need investment protection, and our 62 agreements have proved successful in the past. There is a need for clear rules for investments abroad. Clear rules, transparency and a high level of integration are prerequisites for such a century-old agreement, which must be aimed at combating product counterfeiting, illegal trade and corruption, and at maintaining the high standards we have in Europe and in Austria. However, it is also necessary to provide for appropriate opportunities for SMEs. I don't think we need to panic now. [[Abg. Kogler: We want to give you courage and not panic!]] The agreement is not to be concluded. In principle, it is positive to discuss standards with the USA, and the decision on this agreement lies with us. We will all be involved, the European Parliament and, of course, the national parliaments.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6006	I now give the floor to Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6028	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to an agreement between the United States and Europe, which is also to be negotiated in secret behind closed doors, the alarm bells would have to be ringed here. Again and again it says: Learn from history! – In this context, I would just like to remind you of what has happened in recent years: Where has the economic and financial crisis come to an end? Who put Basel II and Basel III to the fore? And who is still suffering from the economic and financial crisis? – The Europeans! That means: There's nothing good about it, and if the whole thing is going to take place secretly behind closed doors, then you have to ring the alarm bells twice! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Cap, if you are preparing and questioning what we are discussing here and finding that we are very critical across all the parties anyway, I can remind you that: Half a year ago, before the election, everyone agreed that there should be no new taxes and taxes and that everyone should have more net gross. Now, half a year later, we have experienced the opposite from two parties, namely those who form the government. Therefore, the opposition is very much called on to draw your attention to the fact that under such circumstances this agreement cannot be accepted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To my predecessor, Mrs. tiny: It is a nice wish of you if you believe that Europe's standards will now extend to the global economy and the world economy will adopt the standards of Europe! If you believe that, I don't know when you got up today! To this end, I say to you: The American trade union strongly criticises an agreement that has been almost completed between Washington and 11 states from the Asia-Pacific region. You know why? – Because the Americans fear that their standards will be eroded by the fact that the standards from the Asian-Pacific space will then take place instead of the American place! – Now you’re getting mint! The American standards are even worse than Europeans! That means the whole thing's going down, it's similar to the school system, we've already seen it there. That's a mistake! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be time for us to look at the issue at the fact that the economic conditions and conditions that apply in America, in Europe and in Austria in particular are not comparable at all! In Austria we have a microstructured economy. Over 99 per cent of the holdings in Austria, of which more than two thirds of all jobs are created, are Small and medium-sized enterprises. These suffer from a red and black government with a tax rate of more than 46 percent and permanent conditions that they can no longer fulfil and do not know how to finance them. In addition, over the next five years 60,000 farms are facing the turnover. Two thirds of these are family farms, who already do not know how to handle and finance the procedures for the approval of the plant, which are being pushed to the Aug’ by this government. It would be time for this federal government to think about how it protects jobs in Austria and how it can avoid the danger that the actual unemployment rate will still exceed the AMS forecasts, which in any case say nothing good. According to AMS, the unemployment rate will not fall this year or next year. However, they are concerned about how a transatlantic free trade agreement with the Americans could be designed in such a transparent way that the Americans and in the future the whole world jump to the standards of Europe. I'll tell you: If the conditions in Europe were not so sharp – and in Austria even sharper – then for example the Voest would have built their work in Austria or in Europe and not overseas! Think about it at last! At last you'll be finer! Protect the local labour market! Protect the Austrian jobs and the Austrian companies, and do You're something!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6101	Mr Pirklhuber came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6122	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! We have already heard many details, but the basic question, Mr Bundeskanzler, has already reflected briefly at the beginning, namely: Do we really need a new free trade agreement in Austria and in Europe at the moment? – However, you have not answered this question yourself. What does it look like? Why is bilateral agreements at all? – Because multilateral agreements have failed at WTO level because, in the last decade, I remember former Commissioner Franz Fischler, Europe has been committed to the introduction of environmental and social minimum standards in international trade regulations. However, this was not enforceable at multilateral level! And what is the result? – That the United States is working hard on free trade agreements with its economic partners and that the European Union is getting on this deal. Let us take a look at the current figures from 2012: Imports from the USA to the European Union amounted to €205 billion this year, and exports from EU Member States to the USA amounted to 292 billion. There is a clear commercial overhang! That's what the situation looks like! The Americans have a trade deficit with the EU, and that is why they have offensively entered these free trade negotiations. This is also the reason that Barack Obama is in Brussels today and that Barack Obama has gathered 600 experts to support the negotiation process. I am now quoting from the “Washington Post” of February this year. What does American civil society say about these negotiations? In the “Washington Post” it is quite clear that the representatives of industry and wholesale are far overrepresented in Obama's advisory staff. – Labor organisations, civil society organisations or environmental organisations are not available there. That's what it looks like! A third of these advisory bodies deal with agricultural, food-related advisory reports. That's what it looks like! The Americans want to enter Europe exactly where we have interests and where they see barriers to trade in food and genetic engineering. And you do as naïve as if we could export our standards to the US! It's just naïve and totally unbelievable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Kogler.]] Who is on the American side in the Negotiating Committee? – United Soybean Board, the representatives of 90 percent genetic engineering soy food, Cargill, Pioneer H-Bred, DuPont, Dow AgroSciences or CropLife America. Let's see what these people say in their papers! They say quite stone and clear: ‘Foods’ – Food – ‘delivered from approved biotech crops are safe and are the most extensively tested food cups available today’. So the Americans say that the safest foods are the genetic engineering foods. – Is this not cynical for a European consumer and for us here in Parliament, where we have been fighting for years for non-genotechnic cultivation and food to be marked if they are imported like feed from Brazil or the USA that we import? The "Public Citizen" initiative in the United States clearly shows in its papers and documents on the US side that the large Agro-Gentural Group is keenly interested in interrupting European labelling rules and in promoting the authorisation of genetic products and foodstuffs in Europe. This is in the interest of the American negotiators, and we should not forget that on this occasion either! Ladies and gentlemen, this way of opening up policy, which is being used for cloning meat, chlorinated chickens and genetic engineering, is to be rejected, and we reject it! You can't work like that! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] Finally, make transparency, ladies and gentlemen. It's incredible! I have here a question answered by Minister Rupprechter of February. In this he said clearly and clearly that the Minister of Economic Affairs will make available to us the reports of the Committee in accordance with EU Information Law. - We haven't gotten these to this day. Make sure you have the necessary transparency! We don't need free trade, we need fair trade! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6199	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6220	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners and watchers on the televisions! At the beginning of this discussion, I allowed myself to present the new country of pleasure Austria. [[The speaker presents a picture of the port of Hamburg with the title “Genussland Österreich” on the speaker’s desk.]] That's the port in Hamburg, just a little bit to realize. Thank you, Mr Pirklhuber, for the American view you have brought in, which is entirely in line with reality. We have former farmers sitting here, who have always disputed this. And that is how the actual food and goods policy looks (pointing to the table on the speaker's desk): A ship has loaded 18 000 lorries. 18,000 lorries, a cargo ship! Friends, that will be the pleasure region of Austria when this WTO agreement, this TTIP will be concluded. Mr Pirklhuber, you forgot something: We have received other “gifts ” from America. We forget too fast. Where does the potato beetle come from? The BSE crisis has already been mentioned. Who gave us the corn root drill? [[Cheerfulness with Greens and ÖVP.]] Friends, these are the facts that concern us. It's sad we forget too quickly. I would like to say one thing: The Federal Chancellor has today given an excellent keyword. Thank you. – 2.2 billion goods are traded daily. This is exactly the problem of the food industry. Our super Austrian quality is sold in China and in Russia, but our poor Austrian consumers get substitutes, get meatless sausages, artificial cheeses, plant spray creams and cheapest imports from abroad to chlorhendl from China, which is washed and papriated in Germany with the high-pressure cleaner – and we already have a “fresh” country henderl. Friends, these are a little bit the facts and the reality. When we close our eyes before that, we commit a very big fraud to our electorate. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I should like to add the following, Mr Colleague: In Brussels are daily – I now have to look at my former colleagues from the ÖVP in particular; Mr Strasser was also extremely successful – 30,000 lobbyists were active. 30 000 lobbyists work daily in Brussels! That is to say, every Member of Parliament is surrounded by 40 such lobbyists, so that he is right in the laws so that he does not make any mistakes. This opens the door to fraud, friends and colleagues. These are the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mlinar.]] Mrs Mlinar, you will soon experience it when you are in Brussels. It's out with your desired freedom. I can make a small comment on your press article today: I congratulate you! Get away with the money from agriculture to research and innovation. Now let me tell you a truth that is not so pleasant. Yes, American hormone meat is supplied by an Austrian company. That's called biochemistry in Kundl. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. Why don't you find out before You speak the word of boundless freedom and you do not know what you are really doing! That's essential. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I would like to add something very briefly: Let's get away from the fairy tales! Every congregation is already a “healthy community”. At our district city stands “Climabündnis-Gemeinde Vöcklabruck”. – The district city with the largest shopping stamp, where we have most rainforest inside, is climate alliance community! Well, how is that supposed to work? No, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This free trade agreement has to do with environmental policy, this free trade agreement has to do with climate policy, this free trade agreement has to do with health policy and social policy. Who should believe these shawl sounds of international opening? Mrs. Little, there you are! I think you're replacing this trade. Mrs Ederer, who was always talking about the grandeur of thousands during the negotiations on accession to the EU at the time. If you think that you increase wage standards with international markets, you have no idea of international markets. Talk to the head of the Group, talk to the head of the company, like those who tremble before the international competition! And there we don't want to go. That's where we don't want to go. This threatens our Austrian location. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The essential thing is that basic food is excluded from this agreement. Mr. Chancellor, you said that if this does not comply with Austrian standards, you will be against it. I would ask that basic food be excluded from these negotiations so that we do not endanger our food security, this food sovereignty in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6338	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6360	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow citizens in front of the TV screens and on the ranks – relatively numerous today, thanks many times. – Well, who would have believed that such a dusty issue as the investor-state dispute resolution for investment protection agreements could bring such an emotional debate under a trade agreement? This is where horror scenarios are projected, horror images painted on the wall. I almost believe I'm moving into a hitchcock movie and expect giant chlorinated chickens to come down to us, huge like vultures, hypo-pile vultures maybe. That is why perhaps the absence of Mr Mitterlehner's Federal Minister. He felt planted yesterday that he might feel really threatened by these vultures today. And then I expect huge genetically modified corn plants to grow between the edges almost at any time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Well, the criticism of TTIP has partly been presented very polemically and unfortunately does not always correspond to the facts. Fears are startled, there is uncertainty spreading, and that is not helpful. By the way: After all, what's going to happen again? – The EU, everything is bad. The EU is on record. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the Green Group! If you're on the 26th. May in the early days after the EU election have a big cat-jammer, then you will have it, among other things, because you have contributed to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We at NEOS try to analyze the opportunities and risks of TTIP independently and honestly based on evidence. In this sense, I would like to raise a fire of objectivity and objectivity in relation to the issue of transparency. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Do you have the American commercial papers? Do you have the documents? - We don't!]] The criticism of transparency is partly justified. But we must not forget one thing: The last instance is still the European Parliament and the national parliaments. Negotiating is due to a Council mandate with the European Commission, which is currently negotiating on behalf of the EU and the Member States. She's not so bad at all. I can recall that in the last part of the draft TTIP arrival, for example, it is precisely stated that all laws that serve public security, the protection of humans, animals, plants, health, exploitable resources or ensuring personal privacy and security are excluded from TTIP. This is the Commission's starting position. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Commission is constantly informing Parliament about the ITRE Committee, but above all the final agreement must be reached by the European Parliament and the Council. According to current information, the agreement should also be accepted by all national parliaments. Assigned: The involvement of the public is insufficient. This leads to great distrust in the population, and unfortunately this is still being fuelled by ideologically motivated parties and interest groups. We believe that this is regrettable both from a democratic political point of view and from a political point of view. By the way, the involvement of the EU Parliament has already shown its impact; for example, in July 2012, the European Parliament rejected the approval of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, i.e. ACTA, which should have been concluded between the EU and its Member States as well as Australia, Canada and other countries. A new example of the intervention of the European Parliament is the rejection of the Seed Regulation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The European Parliament and the Member States are also currently having an impact on the current negotiations. An example: While the EU Commission and US Negotiators wished to include audiovisual media in the Agreement, France, Belgium and Greece, with the support of the European Parliament, called for the exclusion of audiovisual media from the Agreement, and this was also ensured by the Council. So the claim that the planned free trade agreement is somehow a serious attack on direct democracy and the erodement of the rule of law is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6433	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:29:49]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6455	We shall now proceed to the announced debate on objections. Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek has spoken. You know that I am the The duration of the speeches has been reduced to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6479	Madam President. As already mentioned, we are raising objections to this agenda. I would like to come to the previous story: We have discussed this in the Presidential Assembly, it is about the presentation of the Court of Auditors' report. This is a very delicate report of the Court of Auditors. It is about examining the bank package – in particular the first file from it. It is about €900 million, i.e. almost a billion, which the Hypo Alpe-Adria has received before the emergency stateization – which is mentioned above. It is a very critical report from the Court of Auditors, and it was originally the last item on the agenda for the second day of the sitting. The President is due to the fact that he is now at least a item on the agenda 11 on the first day of the sitting. However, due to the symptomism of the Court of Auditors' control reports and control reports in this House for eight years now, we have decided on this objection debate. For this reason, we would also like to address in principle the importance of the Court of Auditors' reports and controls for the SPÖ and ÖVP Members. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It's the same game every time. If you do not fight quite massively for these control reports to be discussed at the front – wherever they can be observed by the public – then they are always rowed backwards. The Court of Auditors is a control body of Parliament, our own control body, one of the main control bodies of the Republic. It is inexplicable and not only with a critical eye very, very good, but also with regard to recommendations. That is why it is really dramatic to always have to argue about whether these control reports are now left behind or in the middle. To this end, I would like to make a fundamental confession that we are saying here together: The Court of Auditors is important to us, the audit reports are important to us, and we are essentially presenting important reports to the top of the agenda, as well as the reports of ministers and ministers when they make a statement. [[Congratulation with Greens and Team Stronach as well as with representatives of NEOS]] But this refusal of control and this very strange access to control is going through. [[Abg. Wheeler: Refusal!]] This is also a subject that needs to be discussed: Why is there still no willingness to negotiate the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law? . We hear new arguments every day, and we hear new arguments every day as regards the Hypo-Research Committee. Now the Tribunal has always been suggested as an argument. Since Peter Pilz has now arrived at you as the “great Tribunal” – that was pronounced today in the “Kurier” by the Minister of Finance – it is the cost at once. [[Abg. Kogler: Painful!]] A U-committee would cost € 1 million, so this U-committee would not be feasible. [[Abg. Kogler: A madness!]] I have to tell you the truth: Are you all right? So really! That's where I stop understanding. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] This is said by someone from a ministry who has “wasted only €300 million of consulting costs – under quotation marks – in order to come to a solution that looks so that de facto 100 percent of the risk is charged to the taxpayer. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] [[Abg. Rädler: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's the thing! - Oh, my God!]] And then it is said that a U committee is not possible because of € 1 million. I have to say honestly, I was really unscrupulous today – apart from the 4.7 billion that are now simply gone for the Hypo Alpe-Adria cash. We have now discussed the agenda. Now I would like the SPÖ to have a good argument about why the health block is more important than the control block, than the Court of Auditors reports. And as much as I can understand that – yes, it is good that now children who need this for ginger-orthodontic reasons will have a dental clamp; not all, you will still have to argue, but only a very small group of children – but the reason why we cannot discuss so many points, because there are no means for this, such as appropriate care places for children in psychotherapy, care places, rehabilitation places for children after severe diseases, lies in the disaster of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. That is why we should have discussed this first; first, put the facts on the table and take our own test body seriously and look at and discuss the report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would really have liked to dispute this relation to control in principle, namely that we welcome the reports that we are seriously discussing them at the top of the agenda. I know that these objections are always extremely unpopular, I know they are not always comprehensible for the audience, but this is a fundamental question: What is the importance of control? Control increases the quality of decisions and is not a torture cabinet.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6608	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Andreas Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6632	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of an agenda is as difficult as the green club's seat plan creation, I assume. It is not possible to put everything at the beginning of the agenda, and this problem, which is just a matter at the outset, has then become a debate in the presidency. It is not a matter of allowing for topics. Other agenda items could also be mentioned and said: It would also be interesting, from our point of view, to discuss these earlier. That is why we have also mentioned in the Presidency that, if it is your wish, this point can be moved to the first day of the session, as a second prominent block on health issues. I would like to stress once again the following: I consider the topic of tooth joints, where 85 000 children who need a tooth regulation for medical reasons will be paid by the health insurance fund in the future and save themselves these costs, for social and health reasons. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We can now discuss for a long time what is more important. It is also a very, very important social and health breakthrough. Now to the hypo, to say this very clearly: The political responsibility has already been clarified, namely in Carinthia, also grateful by the Carinthian Social Democrats, but also by the Green Carinthian Landtag member Holub. It is located at FPÖ in Carinthia, which has taken over 20 billion liabilities for this bank. [[Abg. Darmann: Where was Emperor? Every week the same theater!]] This is a problem that FPÖ has incubated the Austrians, a difficult heritage that must now be taken over and where, by the way, the FPÖ expresses itself before the responsibility of this heritage. [[Abg. Darmann: That's incredible!]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Deimek.]] Today, the Chairman of the FPÖ does not even come to the meeting room again, because he is already so generous for this subject. But it is exactly the same principle of running from it that you practice, as in the case of Mölzer, in order to say that quite clearly. There comes a member of the European Parliament and top candidate of the FPÖ, says that the European Union is the same as the Third Reich and a “low conglomerate” and will continue to be tolerated at the top of your European list. I think that's unheard of and he belongs to that list deleted! [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Because you don't believe me, just want to read two articles from today's newspapers: In the newspaper “Austria” writes Isabelle Daniel Deglisen can only do what is in one, but then he – namely, mills – is not supposed to do it as an EU mandater of this Republic. [[Abg. Deimek: Which newspapers did you subscribe to?]] - Quote. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does this have to do with the objection debate?]] I can be perfectly associated with this, but also with what Mr Jeannée writes in the “Kronen Zeitung” today, namely: “Dear Andreas Mölzer, (),as compared to the EU, the Third Reich has probably been formless and liberal, as there were not so many commandments and regulations.” He condemns this and calls for your resignation as a FPÖ candidate for the EU Parliament. I would also like to join these demands in the Austrian newspapers: Take responsibility once, put a sign and pull off these candidates! This is also an issue that is once discussed in the Austrian Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6727	Mr Elmar Podgorschekgebang. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6759	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! [[Calls and counter-calls between Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek and Mr Lopatka.]] Mr Schieder, yes, the political responsibility is to be shown, I give you the right, but then I do not understand why you do not agree to the setting up of an investigation committee, then political responsibility can be clarified. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] It is about the resolution of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which is now in progress, that the processes, everything that has happened before, are accordingly clarified. The fact that the final end of this item on the Court of Auditors' report is further in the back is just a sign that you do not have a good feeling about it. [[Abg. Lopatka: What does “longer back ” mean?]] – It's relatively far back. [[Abg. Lopatka: The second theme block!]] – It is no longer in the main television period, and the population has the right to be informed of what happened at the end of the day. [[Abg. Lopatka: It's over, the main television time!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The population has the right to know why a fantasy commission should now be installed. In the end, this is nothing but a provocation of Parliament and parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandl and Mr Lopatka.]] If Mr Vice-Chancellor said that a committee of inquiry would cost so much, I would also be interested in what a fantasy commission would cost, which is probably to cover everything. On what legal basis will it operate? [[Abg. New builder: Truth finding!]] At the end of the day, this is just an increase of taxpayers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Elevation of parliamentarianism!]] Again: Our task as a parliamentarian is to control, not to cover, and to make the government the wall! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Schieder, I would just like to comment briefly on your arguments, which Mr Mölzer has made: I think he made more than clear yesterday in ZiB 2 to Mr Wolf that he apologises for those statements that are not approved. [[Abg. Lopatka: He made it worse!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That was embarrassing!]] – They consider it embarrassing, the population will see this much different from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look, the central point of this whole debate is the so-called emergency nationalization and not the processes that happened until 2009 – the emergency stateization that has not happened in need, as has been shown gradually now. [[Abg. Lopatka: After what else?- Oh, my God!]] It appears openly that there is a misbehavior on the 14th. December 2009, and this has to be done by the taxpayers. [[Abg. Lopatka: The Misbehavior!]] It appears openly that the Bavaria have gradually withdrawn money from the Hypo Alpe-Adria and, at the end of the year, wanted to force Austria to participate. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Arbitrators.]] From the mail traffic that we can now thank God, which has come to the public, it is quite clear that the Bavaria wanted to join us more or less. Unfortunately, at the time, the government – and there you were, Mr Ex-State Secretary of State, arbitration, and have co-founded – has invaded the Bayern, who have just bluffed. [[Abg. Arbitrators: It's going uphill!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: For whom?]] [[Call the Stronach team: Take responsibility for your disaster!]] There are best quotations from November 2009, where an email was written by the Executive Board or by the Executive Board to the then Bavarian Finance Minister, with the following content: ‘Since it is expected that the Republic will not take over the hypo in the short term, but is realistic at first only one interim solution, the following restructuring variant is proposed.’ That is to say, the Bayern knew exactly or believed that the Austrians would not take over the hypo. And then the miracle happened that the Austrians stepped in on it. You must explain to me why an insolvency scenario would have been possible at that time and it is not possible today! Either it was possible at the time and it is also possible today, or it was not possible at the time and is not possible today either. This contradiction is clear, and therefore we need, and I do not say it often enough, a committee of inquiry to clarify all these processes!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7006	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7031	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I really lack any understanding, and I would have liked to say this directly to Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig that we are now holding such a long debate at the beginning instead of working on the agenda and dealing with the questions we should address – because we cannot deal with television time, Mr Podgoricak. [[Abg. Kogler: Ah!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I also lack any understanding!]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] At 10:20 it was over on ORF 2, now it is transferred to ORF III all day long. [[Abg. Kogler: This is your idea of politics! You're talking about television!]] Do you know what it's all about? – It’s about something else, Mr Kogler. It's about fungus time. [[Abg. Moser: He's not here at all!]] In the three hours, the fungus is present, which is from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m., in the early afternoon he is gone again, you wanted to have discussed it. It's about fungus time and not about television time. That's what you're talking about, I'm telling you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What surprises me is the following: In the election campaign, Member of the Glawish Health Committee was still an important concern, a very important concern, as she was still moralizing on the road, said what we should eat and what we should not eat. [[Abg. Kogler: That's incredible!]] Now the health issue is no longer important to her. [[Abg. Moser: Health has been in first place 15 times! This is of general interest!]] I tell you, Madam President Prammer, it is not worth meeting the Greens here. They met the greens. We have deliberately moved these pieces of the Court of Auditors from the second day to the first day. This was even welcomed by Clubobfrau Glavischnig in the Presidential. Only today was it forgotten, today we have this objection debate, and there is already an unholy alliance: On the one hand, the greens, who, whether appropriate or inappropriate, keep making the hypo the subject. [[Abg. Brosz: Very inappropriate for you!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Sorry! You have not even read the Court of Auditors' report! That's incredible!]] We already had two special sessions here. We have many, many, meetings of the Financial Committee, and we still have the subject on the agenda on the urgent issue today. [[Abg. Kogler: It's about the bank package!]] – But you didn’t care about the bank package, nor did the previous speakers. There was only a part of the bank package. [[Abg. Kogler: You want to hide Minister Pröll! That's your only concern! Where's Minister Pröll?]] There's not the entire bank package that's been very helpful to the location, I'm telling you. Austria has come out of this crisis – EU assessment – better than many, many other EU countries, in order to hold it down; and the banking package has made a significant contribution to this. What you are talking about is, of course, to distract you from your own miscarriages, because the liberals can only of course have an interest in getting such support from the Greens, because then you can be distracted from the fact that the basic problem was of course the "Haider Bank" and the liabilities that have been entered on the Carinthian side have led to the disaster. [[Abg. Kogler: The “Haider Bank” has always had the black companion protection!]] This is not only what I say, but also Holub clearly stated in his Committee of Inquiry report: Without these liabilities, Carinthia would never have gotten into the situation that then the federal government had to jump in and make this emergency nationalization. This is and remains a Carinthian problem that we have to solve here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] And of course it is also a welcome distraction from the Mölzer scandal, because this comparison between the European Union and the Third Reich is not justified by anything! Here is a peace project where human rights, where prosperity is what this European Union has created; on the other hand, a regime that has brought what? – Millions of dead, war, misery and distress! So this comparison is justified by nothing! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] That stirs up, and that also excites me! Whatever upsets me is if you do it the way the NEOS did. I was horrified when I – I heard it – heard the reaction of Mrs Mlinar, your top candidate. She has reacted completely differently than Clubo's wife Glavischnig, and I quote her that Mr Mölzer too has the fundamental democratic right to express any stupidity. [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] [[Abg. Katzian: That's not an opinion!]] – That, I tell you, is not to be justified! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] NS comparisons cannot be justified by the democratic right to express opinions, for there you could call for the abolition of the prohibition law. I say to you that it would be good for your top candidate for the European elections if she were to reconsider this attitude quickly! Therefore: Let us return to the matter of the agenda and save ourselves such debates of objection!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7272	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7296	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to follow where my previous speaker has stopped to make a contribution, and in fact the two representatives of the government parties have not contributed to this debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] I can only give my predecessor Glavischnig the right that this debate is good and right and that we should also talk in detail about the importance of the Court of Auditors here. We know that the Court of Auditors reports are permanent at the end of the agenda. We know that the Court of Auditors will be financially cut down, that it will no longer be able to exercise its control rights to the fullest extent. We also know that the ministries are only slow to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations. We also know that the representatives of red and black are happy to praise the Court of Auditors in fair weather speeches, but when it comes to important things – tax money, ladies and gentlemen, because the Court of Auditors is the guardian of the tax money for Austrians who pay tax money – is simply walled down according to the motto: Who screams the loudest: Hold the thief! This has made red and black here too, have been distracted from the hypo debate. They have tried to start a debate on the EU election campaign and a FPÖ candidate. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is not fair, and that is not all right, neither have the Austrians, the taxpayers, nor taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This wall really roams like a red thread and also like a black thread. This is what we see when we look at what the Committee of Inquiry looks like. How many times have we debated the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law here? There has also been written consent from all parties that an investigation committee can also be used by opposition parties, by a minority. What's the matter? Where are your promises? Did you keep her? – No, because we are still discussing this today, and there is still no committee of inquiry as minority law. At the Hypo Committee, ladies and gentlemen, you have done a little bit of bear service yourself, when you wanted to turn the petition off. Fortunately, last week the Committee on Petitions was interrupted and this week, yesterday, continued. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I still didn't understand!]] One can really speak here of a spring awakening of democracy, as our club Post-Bauer stated that the opposition had been given, that the applications for allocation had been withdrawn and that it had just been decided that opinions had been received from the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich]] These three petitions to set up a hypo-examination committee now have over 120,000 supporters, ladies and gentlemen. This should give you some thought, because here you can not go over the Austrians, the taxpayers and taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The setting up of an Enlightenment Commission, investigative Commission, as it has announced, Minister of Finance Spindelegger, ladies and gentlemen, this is a special class fixture. What's to be investigated? [[Call:Successful]] What skills does this Commission have? What skills does Dr. Griss have? She said it herself in an interview, and I'm allowed to quote it briefly. The statement: “A U Committee has much more competence: He can request documents, load witnesses. Witnesses are under a duty of truth. They have a lot less skills,” says Dr. Griss, saying: “You’re right. The only thing I have in mind is that the Commission will stop working if it gets the impression that it has no unlimited access to relevant information." Well, I think that's incredible! This committee of inquiry, which is handless and footless, has no powers which have no rights, which cannot request any documentation, but is walled at the committee of inquiry to the hypo. And why is walled? – Because, of course, the emergency stateization of the big chunks is and both parties, red and black have something to hide. [[Abg. Darmann: The so-called Wall Commission!]] Then why are the ladies and gentlemen coming at that time in the night from 12 to 13. In December 2009, they were involved in nationalization, not in the Committee? In the last period, we have already managed to put together a list of charges in the banking package, where those in charge of them came to the committee at that time, and who are speaking and replying to the honourable Member. What was made of it? – It was not done, it was blocked and walled as so often in this house, my dear ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to ask all of you once again and remind you of what you are for, what we are all doing, that is to make politics for the Austrians, for those people who have elected us, and for them to be informed, because it is not about your pocket money, but about tax payment money that has been massively wasted – and so it cannot be, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7388	Mrs Schenk, it is really a great need for me to clarify – we have long discussed this in the Presidency – that Committee interruptions can last a maximum of 24 hours. Imagine, I sit here in the chair and interrupt the session without any reason – and tastes when we continue. [[Abg. Kogler: He had a statement in the committee!]] I think that is not legitimate, and we have also held this in the presidency, and I do not want this to be revitalized afterwards. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: He had a reason!]] [[Further calls.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Kogler, do not criticize your club wife!]] Mr Erwin Spindelberger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7461	The speeches by the representatives of the opposition parties alone have shown how ridiculous the debate today is. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is not ridiculous!]] It is ridiculous because, in the end, it is only a matter of creating an item on the agenda that is more important than the others. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I mean, that's where we should all get on the nose! I think that all the items on the agenda, which we decide here in the House, are equally important. So far you have never been excited, ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, the Court of Auditors reports have been made at the end of the agenda – and only today, when it comes to the banking package is everything else. [[Objection to the FPÖ and calls: That's not true! Every time]] [[Abg. Darmann: Don't twist the facts out there!]] Now that the contents of the Court of Auditors' report are being played against those of dental health, I find it really more than unnecessary, because you are really just about one thing, namely that you bring your populism to ORF 2 and not to ORF III to the man and to the woman. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You're just about your populism!]] As we have already heard from Klubobmann Lopatka, ladies and gentlemen from the opposition parties, you seem to be afraid, because of the agenda now presented, that certain statements that have just come from you in the Health Committee are not so broad and are heard by so many people. This was the last week, and I would like to point out that in the Health Committee, among other things, the introduction of a free gear for children and young people up to the age of 18. Year of life suffering from massive tooth and jaw defects. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's what we know.]] You, ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and also at home in front of the screens, cannot imagine what was presented by the opposition parties in such a way as to disprove this measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] The fact is that one third of the children, and that is at least 85 000, need orthodontic treatment due to medical needs and will therefore benefit from these free gears in the future. Let's open it up to: Many parents cannot and in the past have just been able to afford these necessary gears because the self - retention is very, very high. To make it clear: In the future, if you receive these free gears paid by the health insurance institution, the respective doctor, dentist or orthodontics will determine by means of an internationally recognized index for orthodontic treatments. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You can tell that later! That's what we're gonna hear, how great that isn't!]] And in full awareness that 85 000 families are financially relieved by this socially important measure, members of the opposition parties go here and explain to us that these €80 million, which the Federal Government is putting into this measure in future year after year, are only a populist measure, as the MEPs have called Mückstein from the Greens. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true right now! But can we discuss this later?- Oh, my God!]] If Members of NEOS say that this is, anyway, only a single horse of the Minister and it would be more important to do, then one must point out that this is not a measure where the money will be awarded with the casting can in the future, but is really very, very useful. It is therefore also important to mention that, contrary to your intentions, Mr Loacker von den NEOS, we have managed to ensure that there are not only subsidies for the medically required dental clamps, but that they are also offered as a property, i.e. free of charge. But obviously you, ladies and gentlemen, are still not aware and displace the social policy brilliance of these measures. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Once the word “day order” say?! Can you say something to the debate on the application of the Rules of Procedure?- Oh, my God!]] I even claim that you are going so far that, as some of your requests suggest, you want to starve at our proven social system anyway – because, as usual, Dr. Franz of the Stronach team might even call the introduction of the free gears nonsense by saying that it would be more important to promote it as such “branch groups”. That's 85,000 children. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Court of Auditors is a ‘Randgruppe’?]] All of this, your unsocial attitude and the destruction of our proven health insurance system that you require should not appear to be transferred to ORF 2, otherwise I cannot explain your request for a change to the agenda. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can only say that you are ashamed of your social policy attitude!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7642	Mr Klubobmann has now come to speak. Dr. Matthias Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7667	Mr President. High house! Dear citizens on the gallery, in front of the screens, those who follow the session by live stream! Madam President. I would also like to say something about the Committee's presidency, because I simply can't leave it that way. The Committee on Petitions did not have the instrument of adjournment available because no majority could be found. The Committee president, following his perception of an agreement, which was jointly concluded by means of an operation, said: Then I interrupt here and get the President at the earliest possible time. – He then resumed the meeting at the earliest possible time. [[Abg. Schieder: A week later – “earliest time”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Perhaps we need to learn a lot, but I think this is a legitimate approach. We need to learn that you obviously... [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That wasn't a mistake! With a finte you have tried to clear this online petition! [[Abg. Lopatka: No!]] To this end, the Committee president had to come. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true what you say! It was a serious mistake!]] Good. We have different perceptions here. [[Abg. Lopatka: There is only one Rules of Procedure!]] We have different perceptions here. In any event, NEOS is important to us that citizens can get involved. If the matter is important to you, then we have now clarified this matter. Over 50,000 people have also been using it in the last nine days. I think you must acknowledge that this also has a value for democracy! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] And with that I come to today's objection debate. On the one hand, I am opposed to using this valuable time here in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, on agenda issues. I also believe that we in the Presidency should agree on how the agenda looks. One thing you also have to say: Of course, as an opposition, we have a bad standing because SPÖ and ÖVP tend to cover up on all the questions that have to do with the hypo, to abandon and cover things up somewhere. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] This starts with the fact that you don't want an investigation committee, you don't want any information here, you want cover-up, and this stops you from just rowing back the agenda items. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] I don't think that makes sense. However, we will not be able to change this – here an appeal to the citizens – through the agenda, but we must change it by other majority groups in Parliament. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] That's what we're here for. And we will build on you, dear citizens! We need to show the coverts the red card, and we need to find out together. However, we need the corresponding election results. ==References== May is the next chance! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Free expression is very important to us, of course, this is a civil right. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr. Mölzer – free speech!]] And, please, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, you haven't understood what irony is yet. [[Abg. Lopatka: The Third Reich can never be irony!]] Please, check in the Brockhaus – Wikipedia you will not know – what is to be understood by “Ironie”. Angelika Mlinar, as a mining child from a Slovenian language area in Carinthia, has all doubts that she loves the Third Reich or anything else! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: If this is irony!]] We do not want this to happen, not even from humorous clubmen of the government parties who do not understand irony! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7852	Mrs Tamandel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7873	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! So, Mr Strolz, now you have disqualified yourself, because irony is really not appropriate for some issues that are so serious. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] And with regard to the objection debate: It is here that every party here, every political group, including the opposition groups in particular, has no choice but to object to the agenda. Of course, it is legitimate to do so. But, Mrs Glawischnig, I wonder what Your word is worth it. The President spoke about the unfortunate problem that the points of the Court of Auditors are always being discussed so far back and at night. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] We have been discussing this for more than ten years. Since I was here in Parliament, it has been discussed. If the President-in-Office, who is always ready for consensus and is always looking for solutions, says that we are treating the Court of Auditors chapter for the health chapter, and you also welcome it and welcome all the other opposition parties, but now raise objections, then I have to ask: [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true at all!]] What is your word worth and what do you even want to achieve here? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Do you want to reach consensus here? Do you want to plead for materiality here? And what is your handbeat quality worth? – Nothing, Mrs Glawischnig! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You weren't there at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Were you there, Mr Kogler? I have also been informed by my clubman, which is probably legitimate. [[Abg. Kogler: You obviously didn't read the protocol!]] I would like to come to the Court of Auditors. In the Court of Auditors, the bank package has been discussed. The Minister of Finance, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Liebscher, former Governor of the Bank, also told Mr Mag. Lejsek and the President of the Peshorn Financial Procuratorate have given a speech and an answer. It was mainly the subject of hypo on the tapet, that is no question at all. There it was really possible to have a very good debate there, with the exception of small inconsistencies on the part of some opposition politicians. It would have been possible to discuss the Court of Auditors here before the urgent procedure before 3 p.m. This is no longer possible now, however, because we are losing almost an hour due to a debate of objections, where herb and beet are mixed and where we are again talking about a committee of inquiry and other things. I would expect from you once, Mr Kogler, and also from the other opposition parties, that the Minister of Finance has actually provided a solution to the hypo in record time since he was praised as Minister of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Mr Spindelegger, Mr Colleague, not everything else. In record time a solution! There is a committee of inquiry, chaired by Mrs Griss, who has said herself that she is independent, she will also conduct this committee of inquiry independently and she cannot rule out anything. She wants to see the documents, and she'll get them. On the homepage of the BMF there is transparency about all the questions that interest the population. All questions are also answered. Inclusion of financial speakers in all operations, a Special Financial Committee. We have sent you the appointment, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties. I am already excited to see whether this financial committee is actually in place. This has to be said: The Causa Hypo, like I mean, is the most debated Causa in this house since the new government has been praised. At the last National Council meeting, which was a special meeting, a statement by Federal Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor was on the agenda. There was a urgent, short debate on a question response, and we are debating a committee of inquiry. I don't think that's where we can debate anymore. In conclusion: There are no good and bad issues, there are no good and bad agenda items. And that the topic of health is so unimportant to the Greens in particular, that is really a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7978	Mrs Dr. Moser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7999	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Once in a while to correct: There is always a proposal from the government parties in the Presidency in which the agenda for plenary sessions is being drawn up. And you will not believe that this proposal, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, has foreseen the debate on the banking package, the Court of Auditors will take place on the second day in the final place. Let go. We know that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Since 1999, I have been sitting in the Court of Auditors. I can tell you that a handful of Court reports has not been discussed at midnight. – Now we wanted to prevent this discussion at midnight. The President-in-Office of the Council has certainly made a prelude. But it was the President and not the Third President. I mean that, so to speak, symbolically. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr. Lopatka and I were also in favour of it today!]] However, correcting is: Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig has never given her consent, but she has said: subject to the decision of her parliamentary club. I can still read the minutes to you, if you like. Subjectly, it's called. – So much to the process and to the background of the current discussion. The current discussion offers two ways. As a member of the committee of the Court of Auditors, it is important for me personally to ask the Gretchen question: How do you keep it under control? How much is your overall control worth, the careful handling of taxpayers' money? The Gretchen question: How do you keep it under control?, have you answered in such a way that your proposal has been called: Control at midnight on the second day, at a time when no one has any interest in the way Members themselves think more about homeing than about the correct discussion of this important audit work, these important Court of Auditors reports. That report, which was originally to be discussed at the end of tomorrow, this Court of Auditors report on the banking package, is more than an explosion. This discussion in plenary has practically a long history. The possibility of monitoring the Committee has been prevented for two years. Theoretically, since 2012, we have the opportunity to discuss the bank package in the Court of Auditors. Why was that possible only now, 2014? . Because the attitude of the representatives of the government parties to control – I stress this, because the Members of Parliament still determine – is a very, very negative one, a very negative one. This is precisely the case with the bank package, because this is really about billions, which now have to be shot at the taxpayer's expense, that only control failures in advance could lead to the fact that this hypo disaster is now rolling over all taxpayers, this tsunami from Carinthia almost all over Austria. This is also due to control failure. I say this to you on the example of the bank package: We wanted to have a serious discussion in the Committee at an early hour, saying: as soon as possible after the report has been published. – This was not possible because the central information people were not allowed to load Pröll and Fekter, not to speak and answer. And here we are exactly on the problem that is ahead of us at the Commission of Inquiry. They were not allowed to be loaded into the committee. Now, instead of a committee of inquiry in Parliament, where people have to be invited to speak and answer, you are using a commission where there is no way to talk and ask, but where a judge will sort papers and then her judgment on them. I mean, What kind of control is that? – Again, this is just a sign, just as the ban on the agenda, that control is such a matter of no matter what and is so hindering that, as a taxpayer and taxpayer, you would have to give you the Weisel, you would simply have to turn off. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] There will also be a way of thinking in the EU election. At the next parliamentary election, it will also be very likely that this control, which you always take and document, will be strongly condemned by the electorate. That is why, please, it is necessary for you to finally set up a committee of inquiry, because normal control is already carried out in the form of a midnight deposit. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] If the usual, the usual, permanent control is dealt with by the Court of Auditors in the form of a midnight deposit, then, according to your thinking, no committee of inquiry may be in accordance with your system of refusal of control. But people want it. The proceedings in the Committee on Petitions show once again how to deal with the control and the need for control of the population. Yes, allow, move to the side, hide, put under the spell, that's your system. And we have to break that. And I try to advance a very constructive path in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, involving all, especially the government groups, common concerns. And what is the answer? – There will be a change on the next agenda – I will stop anyway – to be the next loads and the next polls. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] It's always like that. However, I will not get tired of showing this, even if the marble animal greets me a hundred times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8069	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8090	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Return to the President: Of course, Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig has reserved an objection debate. This is out of question, and this is also noted in the Minutes. [[Abg. Lopatka: She welcomed the presentation!]] She welcomed the première. I think it was the right step in the right direction, but as opposition parties, we still do not agree that control in this Republic is being dealt with in the last place behind. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I follow the debate this way, I must say that we, as the opposition party, have a different understanding than the government parties and also value it differently. That means that we want control to be free, we want control by an investigation committee or by the Court of Auditors. But what you, estimated representatives of the government parties, have put on proposals in recent weeks and months, is controlled control, as it may be thought right in North Korea, but not in a democratic system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the area of hypo, they have proposed the establishment of a sages council, with the sages themselves being selected, probably also the result that the sages are then to present, subsequently the establishment of an investigative committee, where one also chooses the examiner. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with control at all! What the government parties are imagining is controlled control, as is usual in North Korea. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Want something!]] Another indication that control is not so close to your heart is also that the Court of Auditors is increasingly thinned financially, that the Court of Auditors is being saved in the area of funds, and that, when a Court of Auditors report is discussed, it takes place sometime beyond 23 o'clock, only so that no one notices what is to be changed in this country. But I'm telling you, too, the pressure is growing. Hide, drag, hide with your method They don't go on, because the population has the nose full. And the population wants information. The population, many people who no longer get out with their incomes, do not understand it when they read daily, for which hypo is spent 19, 20 or no matter how many billions. But no one in the government obviously has serious interest in asking: Who is responsible for this? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr. Tamandl! As far as time is concerned, we have a very different understanding. It may be quick for you to respond once within four years of nationalization. It's too late for us. We should have reacted to this long ago, namely four years ago. But this, in turn, fits into the whole system to hide, toss, hide. Ladies and gentlemen! There will be no way in this country to see a committee of inquiry set up. If you take the population and what the population wants seriously and finally act as a representative of the population in this House, you can only agree to the setting up of an investigation committee. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] I don't understand your philosophy. I don't understand when you keep saying: We're gonna do it, but sometime, but just not transparent. – The pressure is getting bigger and bigger. Have the courage! Make Step forward! Take steps yourself! Say: Then, if the ship is hypo in the safe port, a committee of inquiry will be set up! – Set the framework conditions when this Committee of Inquiry will be convened! But we guarantee you: There's no way about it. We'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8177	Mr Mag. Kogler is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8199	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You cannot repeat the necessary correction alone because of the hygiene of the home at all often enough. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular those in the ranks of the ÖVP, and Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, who, first of all, gave you this objection debate in a Integrated as a Kasperl Theatre, and in addition to that, the woman Clubobfrau Glavischnig made the wrong record, I can now correct it again Yes, exactly, but that's nothing new. [[Abg. Lopatka: Wrong record?]] I quote from the Presidential Protocol: ‘Klubobfrau Dr.in Glawischnig-Piesczek reserves the right to decide on a debate on the application of the Court of Auditors’ report to a further discussion in the Club.’ That's it, yes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: She welcomed the President at the same time!]] Claim You're not always something else! It is not good if we always demand seriosity on one side or on the other. However, I would like to go into the immediate occasion and then again to the Committee on Petitions, because this is being debated today. The immediate occasion for the agenda item on the Court of Auditors report on the bank package was a unanimous decision here in the House. A sentence on the bank package: Yes, we have also decided this unanimously, because we felt that it would be useful in these dramatic days and nights of October 2008, if we were to put up with such a thing – it was then the term “protective shield” – before the real economy in Austria was seriously damaged by a series of financial institutions. You can see that like that, in the post-mortem, you have always failed. We would like to say: It was reasonable! But that did not mean that the executive implementation should have happened as miserablely as it was then done, starting from the Ministry of Finance on the so-called FIMBAG, which was set up. In addition, Mr Liebscher has the chairmanship there to this day – also very interesting! – and Mr Wala, who meets us from the pension-gasites with 38 000 € pension so to speak. No one knows what they are doing there, nor does the Court of Auditors. There is massive criticism by the Court of Auditors of the implementation of the bank package and of FIMBAG and thus of Wala and Liebscher. These are exactly those who have presided over the task force, and these are those who have advised the government at the hypo. That's what it looked like. And that's the compelling link between bank package and hypo! But not only did you approve of this – and it was unanimously – but you also had a good reason for it, because, unlike Germany, the bank package in Austria was originally so bad that no auditing was planned at all. We did so in the negotiations that lasted for days and nights, because it was necessary and compelling, as I explained – there really was need – unfortunately, we didn't get through, but we still agreed and cooperated so that we could have this screen. We did not take this unanimous decision until afterwards, due to the negotiations of the Greens. Now the decision is unanimous. And how does the house deal with it? – The report has been available since 2012, and we want to negotiate it since then. Since 2012 ex-minister Pröll has rightly been on the cargo list, but you have prevented it until the end. And we could have delayed the committee, but you have not allowed it, so that only the Minister does not have to speak and answer – the same principle of refusal and obsessiveness – a disgraceful one must almost say – which should lead to the responsible ministers not to say! This has a direct link to the hypo, for: Do you know what the first action from the bank package was? – 900 million participation capital in the Hypo Alpe-Adria. There's only a few weeks for the FIMBAG. That was the Kasus knaxus after all that happened in Carinthia. There's no one at all disputed what the Haider Bank said. But then what did you do? – And you want to cover up these processes now, and that’s why we keep it before you, and that’s why you’re against it. But you won't get through with your cover-up strategy in this matter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So: Then what was it? – An ordered opinion of the sheet of notes, which was thrown together in a few days. Against the will of the public officials of the central bank, these had to issue a positive testimony to this more or less famous and well-known local bank. That's what you have to answer! And now you don't want to make it clear. And the escape strategy is also clear: A government commission is supposed to judge it. The chairman of this Commission - all of course informal, but we may meet with this lady - finally said: A committee of inquiry will also need it, because it does not have the necessary tools to inform. Now, as the last one to the petition, because it fits. [[Abg. Arbitrators: To the agenda!]] Yes, have on the agenda. She's never been talking here anyway. The chairman was right to interrupt. He has only given you the opportunity, Mr Schieder, to correct the mistake of the government. And I would also expect the President of the National Council and I would like her to be a little more caring with these direct democratic means. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] The chairperson of NEOS is entitled to recognition and not insult as you do, just because you want to cover. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8297	Mr Ing. Lugar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8318	Mr President. High house! My dear citizens! We've heard a lot today. We have heard from the SPÖ, for example, that you are opposed to this objection debate. But we've heard something about the NEOS. That's from the old clothes collection. The objection debate found the SPÖ ridiculous, the NEOS opposed it. And now my question is: Why is it contrary to you that we want to put forward the Court of Auditors' reports in order to be able to talk about them prominently in Parliament? – That’s the question now! You have today given a very hot speech to the fact that we need new majority voting in Parliament. There I am on your side: We need new majority in Parliament! But the question is: How do we achieve these? Do we not have to discuss whether the government is doing what many out there think is the best for the citizen? – We need to talk about it! And who, if not the Court of Auditors, can give us an indication of whether this is actually the case, because that is what it is all about? It's not about the opposition finding what the government is doing bad. I think many can imagine that in most cases this will be the case. But the Court of Auditors is independent, the Court of Auditors is above all, and the Court of Auditors gives us, and above all, to the citizens out there, an indication of whether this government is working well or not. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We are now precisely on the issue of why these reports need to be negotiated prominently. Why is that so? – It has been called today, the dental clamps and the blind dogs and the health control law, all this is much more important. It's not! – Not because these materials are irrelevant, but because they are the materials that come anyway. Or does anyone at the top of the gallery think that we in this House can influence anything on the agenda? I know and everyone knows how to vote here today. There are no surprises. It is not about discussions in this House, it will come. But if the Court of Auditors brings something here and we can discuss it, then we have the opportunity to show the evidence that the government is not doing what it is supposed to do, namely the best for the citizen. And that's what the hypo is all about, nothing else! And the Court of Auditors is an important partner here. And there it is always said by the ÖVP and the SPÖ, yes the Court of Auditors are doing so very well anyway. On the other hand, Mr Matznetter, who is now back in Parliament, knows that in the last GP in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, Mr Matznetter is in the window the Court of Auditors, if it does not act as the government expects, will not increase the financial resources and the Court of Auditors will not have the opportunity to carry out its tasks. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And that's exactly what we're experiencing: The Court of Auditors has been reduced in financial terms. That's a fact! And this is how the government deals with those who are supposed to exercise control here. Now it could be said that a good government would not fear the Court of Auditors. – A good government must not fear the Court of Auditors either, for the Court of Auditors is examining, and the Court of Auditors has already come to the judgment several times – unfortunately not too often: Yes, the government did well! Only: This has not happened too often lately. And there you wonder, especially in view of the hypo: Why is that so? I know why it is. – First of all: Parliament has nothing at all to say. That's a fact! And second: Not even the government has much to say, because in truth quite others are ruling in the background. At the ÖVP there are the alliances to be called, the national chiefs, the banks, and at the SPÖ there are the trade unions, also the national heads and also some banks that sit there firmly at the table. – That’s the truth! That is exactly what we need the Court of Auditors to do, because the Court of Auditors has the opportunity to look in there and finally open their eyes to the public. There we are again exactly where Mr Strolz has stopped: We need new majority in this house, and we do not create it alone as an opposition! That is where we need the Court of Auditors as a supporter, who simply says what's going on. The Court of Auditors is impartial, which is not tendential, looking at the things that they are in the area. And this also applies to the area of Hypo, which the Court of Auditors is currently examining. And then we want to have this report on the agenda, too, so that the television viewers and all those who are interested in it at this hour can get it all. This country is governed against the interests of its citizens. That's a fact! And that's what we want to clarify. Only then will we create new majorities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8431	I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8452	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandl has said that it is the Hypo Alpe Adria that has already been one of the most discussed issues of recent weeks. - Yes, it is. But have you ever asked yourself the question why? – Because by all means you are trying to prevent any information in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've been trying this consistently for three, four, five weeks. How you deal with minority rights here also shows your attitude. Mr Lopatka! Know the saying: Do you want to plant me? Do you know who did it? – Your Minister of Economic Affairs has made this statement to the question of how many signatures would be needed for a petition to set up a committee of inquiry. He meant: Do you want to plant me? – That is exactly the attitude of the government parties and also the highest representatives of this government when it comes to information. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! Now a word specifically addressed to the reds: They are committed to minority rights on every occasion, be it religious minorities, whether they be cultural minorities, or other groups of people. That's all right, that's right. But where minority rights are most important, here in Parliament, you are standing by them permanently and you do not want to know anything about them. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] You know, Mr Cap, because I'm just looking at you: It is now over five years since you and the then clubman of the ÖVP Karlheinz Kopf have pledged with your signatures to make the establishment of an investigation committee a minority right here. You did so in the course of the decision of the bank package because it was important for you to carry out the bank package unanimously in Parliament in the situation at that time when there was an economic and financial crisis. And all the opposition parties followed you back then, hoping that you will also keep your promise. The opposition parties have complied because you decided unanimously on this bank rescue package at the time. Only: As far as compliance with your commitments is concerned – but now I do not know if you are still in contact because you are no longer a clubman; the same applies to your black counterpart, the Karlheinz head, which is no longer a clubman – we have been waiting for the establishment of an investigation committee here in Parliament for over five years now to become a minority right. And now I'm gonna tell you something: On every occasion, when it comes to anything positive, always like to compare yourself with our neighbouring country Germany. In the German Bundestag it was so far possible to set up a committee of inquiry with the votes of 25 percent of MEPs, that is, with the votes of one quarter of the MEPs. Now, since the last election in Germany, there has been the situation that, due to the great coalition – by the way, red-black, but with other strengths – the opposition from the Greens and the Left does not have this 25 percent anymore. And now, hold on – maybe you don't know at all, but you can read it at any time –: In the German Bundestag there is now a request from the government parties CDU, CSU and SPD, which is that if all representatives of the opposition parties wish to have an investigation committee to be used – and this with a fifth of all representatives! That means: 20 percent of all Members can apply for an investigation committee in the German Bundestag. Here in this Parliament, on the other hand, the opposition in the meantime has almost half of the seats, the ratio is 84 : 99 Members, but you continue to deny this strong opposition the right to set up an investigation committee. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Take an example!]] But I tell you one thing – and the people have been putting pressure on you for weeks and months; the media and the four opposition parties represented here in Parliament will not be relaxed: You will not be able to prevent this investigation committee, you will not come around this investigation committee! In fact, Mr Lopatka, the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry should have come from you, because you always claim that the only culprit is the Jörg Haider. If you wish to confirm your claim in writing, black on white, if you are right, then the request to set up an investigation committee would have to come from you, because then you would have it black on white. But you know very well that's not the case. And you yourself don't want it anyway, because you were in Munich at the time with the Pröll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8557	Mr Walter Rosenkranz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8581	Mr President. High house! – Yes, what have we done for a call from the ÖVP, the investigation committee has taken place in Carinthia?! – Yes, until the year 2007! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So do you fade out everything that happened then, or is it so because then Sepp Pröll, the inability-crack, over the Hypo Alpe Adria, has flown to Munich, and then, without any legal knowledge, a marode bank, which has been driven down by the Bavaria, has been turned on?- Oh, my God! The fact that you do not want to investigate this is quite clear! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there are now more than 100,000 people in Austria who want to study this. And there are many who come to us and ask: How else can I support this, because I don't have a computer and can't do it electronically? As has already been said, there are over 100 000 citizens who want this investigation. But you don't care. What do I hear from your side? For example, Mrs Tamandl has said here: What the Minister of Finance has not done! He invited the financial speakers and spoke to them. And we also had a Financial Committee, a Special Financial Committee, where we could even ask a Mr Peschorn. That's really great what happened. That's all you can talk about. True is: You don't want to discuss anymore! You want to order the muzzle on this thing. You may be able to think that this is an internal way according to your party tradition, but it is not enough for a powerful Parliament! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kogler: A “Kasperl Theater” is that!]] And what did Clubobmann Lopatka mean today? – He said: Save us this objection debate! I have to tell you, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka: The right to an objection debate is contained in the Rules of Procedure of this House. - Maybe to your regret. This has already been regulated by a majority. But if that were a minority right, then we would wait for the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day anyway, because we know what signatures, the club members of government parties, are worth. They're just sound and smoke anyway, as we've seen at the U committee. But let's keep thinking about that! Yes, let us spare ourselves the Rules of Procedure where this is in. We are saving ourselves the committee of inquiry anyway! Why? - Because we're making such great commissions! I do not wish to reduce the qualification of the President of the Supreme Court in any way, but it is a government commission. This is what Mr Finanzminister or Mr Bundeskanzler or anyone in the government wants to do. Perhaps you, Mr Lopatka, have not yet arrived in your role as a clubman, but in your way of thinking you are still more arrested by the function of a finance secretary, perhaps you are more the emissar of the government in the ÖVP club than the spearhead of parliamentarism for the ÖVP club. Perhaps this is also a problem – one of the many that the ÖVP has! But I do not want to judge that. Just one more thing to the Commission: If Mr Spindelegger wants to have some information for himself, he himself can use so many commissions, he wants and can afford. That's where he can let himself fly in, no matter who he wants. But parliamentary control does not replace that! Since Mrs Tamandl meant here so lightly that the Financial Committee would be enough. It even said the woman Griss herself: What is the Commission's assurance that the people who come will have to say the truth? Now there are concerns: Well, it'll all turn out anyway because all the criminal proceedings are pending! – Let’s think of the last committee of inquiry! We all know: It was especially the great ones who rejected the statement. The many little girls have been the ones who have contributed to the fact that truths have come to light. And that these truths come to light, that's what the FPÖ also wants. We know very well about the FPÖ: It has had responsibility for BZÖ under Jörg Haider in Carinthia, and we are also committed to having a good cooperation and merger with the successor organisation of the BZÖ in Carinthia. But what we don't want is for everyone to be able to clean up and not to explore the truth. It seems to me that the ÖVP – and the SPÖ is of course looking to enjoy it – wants only one thing, namely a savings package: Save us the debate, save us a committee of inquiry, save us democracy! – We don’t play with this savings package!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8644	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek on the agenda item 11 as agenda item 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take these objections into account to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely rejected. It therefore remains with the written order of the agenda items. [[11:41:20]] Application in accordance with § 49 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8680	I announce that Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl in the sense of § 49 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure have requested the suspension of item 18 from the agenda in writing. Hiebei is the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 264/A by Mr Wittmann, Mr Mag. Gerstl, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, with which the transitional law of 1 January 1989 was adopted. ==References====External links== No. 368 of 1925, amended (72 of the supplements). A decommissioning may be decided before entry into the agenda and requires a two-thirds majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution concerning the 18. Agenda item. I would ask those Members who are in favour of delegating this item on the agenda to a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted with the required two-thirds majority. This puts item 18 off the agenda. The numbering of the following items will not be changed for reasons of better clarity. [[11:42:32]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8744	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8977	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by the honourable Member's written question (1120/J) before the entry into the agenda. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Finance on ‘structural reform of countries – urgent measures for financial control and consolidation to protect the Tax payers against further budgetary disasters are to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 163/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9003	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 163/AB to Question No 195/J by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues on ‘Almenchaos and the responsibility of the Agricultural Funding Administration of BMLFUW, AMA and the Chamber of Agriculture’ by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9025	The debate on points 1 to 4, 5 to 9, 12 to 17 and 19 to 21 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9049	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 95, FPÖ 88, Green 74 as well as STRONACH and NEOS per 39 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:45:18]] 1. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (43 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act (82 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the Health Objective Control Act (83 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 284/A(E) by Dr Andreas F. Karlsböck, colleagues concerning compulsory dental examination within the framework of the mother-child passport (84 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 171/A(E) by Dr Marcus Franz, colleagues on the recognition of blind dogs as medical rehabilitation aid (85 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9125	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Karlsböck. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9153	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking here about the free gears under the first normal item on the agenda. There has never been an election promise in the election campaign, which has led to so much confusion and turbulence as this law now to be decided. It has become even richer today, Mr Spindelberger, because you will not seriously believe that such an important debate is being held only because of the fact that we are suppressing the achievement of the free gears here and not allowing the television audience to participate in hearing our arguments. That's absurd! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, there would be every reason for you not to discuss it here in the television time, although, in the dual function as a dentist with a cashier contract, we are pleased that now €80 million more will be distributed for a subproject in the health field, and of course we will not reject a project that brings more money for health. On the other hand, it shows in a kind of revelation how it is actually ordered about the Austrian health system, how the decision-making structures are here and what kind of flickwork is here. Unfortunately, Minister, I cannot spare you to say that this story about this gear could really have been your personal success model if you had done it properly, professionally. In reality, however, it is now a document of failure, and I will tell you as soon as I believe it. It is your personal failure and also one-to-one eye leadership, how inefficient the Austrian health system is unfortunately managed. Let us, however, proceed chronologically. It was promised, as has been said, in the campaign, the gears for all. This should have been financed through tobacco tax, so to speak, from the bright sky. After the elections, of course, one has made a withdrawal, it has been said that the use of tobacco tax is not enforceable, we have to think about something else. Then it was said that by the end of 2018 the whole will be realized. The next step was then in February 2014, which was then limited only to indication cases, where one still has to agree what that will be. And now we are discussing that only patients with certain levels, especially If they're prescribing to the chief doctor, maybe they'll get these gears. It's actually been a damage today, because we're in the middle of it. Dentists have for some time noticed that the patients are now waiting for the pouring out of the monetary filling horn, but unfortunately that will not come. It has really been valuable time in various cases and, as has been said, there has been a damage here. In addition, the main association has now been commissioned by no later than 31. In December 2014, a solution was presented, a contractual solution. The negotiation teams are not even standing, and it's only half a year. ==References== It is scheduled to start all of this July 2015. Unfortunately, that will not happen. In any case, it is gratifying that €80 million will be made available. But that's the only thing that's fixed. Not fixed is who carries it out and under what conditions. It's all still open. That's exactly what I mean by this paradox, Minister. The question that needs to be asked when we talk about the health system is not that we communicate and try to carry out individual benefits that we hold out here, but we need this so-called very large throw. We can't recognize this big litter here in any way. When it comes to health care, the question must also be asked: As you said earlier in your rather perceptive speech in this debate, does Austria become more socially just by means of such a measure? – In this very specific case, Austria does not become more socially just, because here the filler horn is poured out over all social layers. That is to say, our children, the children of our Members, will get the same toothbands if it is indica- tionally justified, as do those from families who really don't have money. So that is not socially sound and justified. - The first point. Second question: Will it be so that in the future, in Austria, one can no longer recognize the socially weak at the bite? – No, even that will not be the case, because if that were the case, then the so-called general contract under which Kuratel the dentists work today would be started. That is, only to understand, we dentists are working today with a contract for our patients from the 1950s. So I probably don't need to explain to anyone what that means to be rewarded with a contract from the fifties which is partially obsolete today. It has changed everything in medicine, as has dentistry. Another thing: Self retention will continue to be abolished in the health system. We liberals advocate the abolition of restraints. It must also be remembered, even if you always say the opposite, that all today's self-holds have been introduced among social-democratic health ministers. We want these restraints away! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question must also be allowed: Why do pensioners continue to have to pay their own reserves? Why do people have to continue to drive to Hungary? Why don't they keep paying for crowns? Unfortunately, all these questions have not been answered. It is also not a large overall concept, but we have here a single measure which we will not, admittedly, reject now, because it is better than nothing at all. At the next item on the agenda, we will discuss how we can improve the health system and make it better. One more thing to conclude: If everyone did their job, which is applied to them, we would not have a problem in the health system either. But we have patient lawyers who do not actually care about the concerns of the patients, but actually only implement decisions that are taken in certain party offices. We have a head of the association who likes the fact that doctors only want to make money and are driven only by low instincts, et cetera. You too, Mr Minister, should strive more seriously for an overall concept of health, rather than just looking at small, punctual things here. We have also tabled a request for a mandatory dental examination in the mother-child passport. It's no longer time to argue this right now. You refuse, you have to say that. That which would actually cost nothing, but would have an incredibly positive effect, is rejected for dubious reasons. So you would have every reason not to deal with these things here during the television season. We are glad that we can present our arguments here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9250	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9271	Mr. Dr. Karlsböck, if you are missing the big throw in the health system, I would like to say straight away that there are very, very many countries where it is on the agenda to cut social and health budgets and drive massive savings programmes. Allow me to point out that the Austrian Federal Government has introduced new services in the last three months alone, which can really be seen. I don't understand you're just making things bad and ready. So you can't run a health policy, as you imagine it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can say right and right that Austria has one of the best health systems in the world, which, although only in small steps, continues to be developed and provided with even more efficiency. That is why, in the coming years, it is a priority to live up to the health reform, which was brought together in the previous year between the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities, as well as the representatives of the doctors and the social security system, in order simply to improve the coordination of benefits between all health providers. In my opinion, it is necessary to ensure: Quality must be the top priority when it comes to treatment, regardless of age, place of residence, income, gender or origin. That is, we also need to look at improving health structures not only in the agglomerations, but also – and this is my personal concern – in rural areas. But to be able to implement all of this – I am coming to the point, Dr. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karlsböck]] Karlsböck – needs a co-existence of all those who work in health care. But the reality, and that is what you keep looking at us again and again, unfortunately looks different at the moment. As a SPÖ health speaker, I simply feel that there is only one goal for many providers: to get the biggest piece of cake for myself. And that's not where we're going if we're just sick. For this I have no understanding, because for all of us – and this has not happened at all in your speech – the patient who is at the centre of the patient should also be the patient, and it should not only be decisive if you move 150 or 200 e-cards through the reader in his ordination today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have no understanding of many doctors' chamber officials when they want to call into question concepts, which are designed together to ensure even better care for patients, and by disseminating shudder fairy tales, as is the case with ELGA or also with the breast cancer early detection programme. If I mentioned earlier that very, very much has gone on in the first three months of the Federal Government Faymann II, then I would just like to mention the free midwives advice, which has now been included in the Mother-Child-Pass study programme, as well as the extension of the infant vaccination concept by the HPV vaccination, by which the cervical cancer rate is to be reduced. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Which idea was that? Who fought for it? You don't!]] With this, Austria even takes on a pioneering role throughout Europe. We should be proud of that. And we should be just as proud if we decide today that it is the free gears for children and young people suffering from massive misalignment of the jaw and the teeth until the 18. ==References== As you said, you don't know how it goes: Now the social security funds and the Chamber of Dentists are required to work out the details of the implementation. I hope that this is a real step forward, because I want the best possible care, and I would like to see more materiality coming into the whole discussion and that not everything that is decided on in terms of benefits for patients in this area is mistreated. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But you also need to be objective!]] And let us all remember one thing: The majority of people living in our world would wish for such a health system as we find it in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9346	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9368	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear viewers and spectators on the ranks and in front of the TV screens! I say it right on the subject: We shall vote in favour of this proposal. But I do not want to keep behind the mountain with my criticism and the doubts. For us Greens too, this concept is a very questionable supply concept, which actually does not fit into an overall concept at all. For me, it is particularly striking that two years ago we had a large-scale children's and youth health dialogue, where more than 60 experts participated and then the children's and youth health strategy was derived from it with Pomp and a large Trara. There was no talk at the time of a toothpaste, but one-bright opinion, there are three priorities, there must be one invest early help in mental illness, child rehabilitation and palliative medicine. Early help, that would have been very important in the field of dentistry. Why? – The dental examinations, several, would have belonged to the mother-child pass, also because severe dental errors result in milk teeth falling too early because they are not well-kept or sick, and also from the fact that children have the snout too long. Such measures could have been taken on early care. The funding also seems questionable to us. €80 million should be paid by the federal government. That's not going to happen now. A structural funds of health insurance funds are being dissolved, which, as we think, was a very important incentive system to force savings, and the remaining 40 million are to come from the Ministry of Health, which, of course, is also very questionable and is not at all clear where this should come from. It would be very important for us to continue to force the priorities set out in the child and youth dialogue at the time. This is mainly about children who have delays in development, who need functional therapies, who have developmental steps in the field of motorism, language or also in terms of their perception, and there would be a need for ergotherapy, physiotherapy and logoology that is cash-financed. Many parents cannot afford to do so. Some 150,000 children in Austria do not come to the developmental therapies they need in this way. A similar problem also exists in psychotherapy. Every year, we are guided by the OECD that we are at the end of the world when it comes to the mental health of children and young people. We have an extremely high suicide rate, the risk behaviour of Austrian children and adolescents is enormously high. There are a lot of children who start drinking alcohol very early. We would therefore very urgently need cash-financed psychotherapy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We would also have expected you, if you had already taken such a measure, to also install the specialist dentist for orthodontics, i.e. create a legal basis for those dentists who are specifically trained to carry this title. Of course, this is very important so that parents can see where they are well removed in the case of severe pine defects in their child. Dentists often have only 90 hours of training, while the specialists or the doctors who are specifically trained have 4,000 hours of training and training in this area and can, of course, better recognize and treat severe diseases. I therefore make the following requests:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9478	The applications submitted are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9614	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9638	Actually, I wanted to start my speech quite differently, but I have to change it now, because unfortunately I have to correct it a little bit, Mrs Mückstein, what you have said. You have said that you agree to “tanning. ” – This is really a slalom race, because you were still shocked in the committee and said that a horse of the Minister is being financed here. You have also said in the Committee that this is a purely populist concept. Do you know what populist is? – What you have done here now, because you have tried to take action against other important measures. We have planned children's rehab, children's hospice and many other things in the government program – it's completely correct what you say. [[Abg. Brosz: But don't do it again!]] But to play one against the other, you really don't need that. Please read it in the government program! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: And you guarantee that's coming?]] I am here today to present the proposal on child toothbands, and I am saying yes to the ÖVP four times. Firstly, it's not a hobby, it's not a Minister's horse, it's about 85 000 children. That is perhaps not enough, but for me this figure is great enough to do something. Secondly, if you read it exactly, this law certainly leads to a quality leap up. Thirdly, the law will lead to some sort of price reduction. Fourthly, I would also like to say that, and that is why I say yes – it is quite a success for the Minister. It was in the election program, we negotiated it in the preparation of the government programme. I have no restraints at all to accept a different idea and not just to put myself on it. The Minister's statement, on the part of a human being, should not be recognized as having its social origin, had something for itself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He's not from the Minister, he's from colleague Karlsböck! There's the copyright!]] I would now like to replicate the statements made by Mr Loacker of the NEOS, who is going to talk about me at some point, in the committee, namely that there is money being donated here, that this measure is not sensible and no wise thing. – We have the problem in healthcare time and again that healthy, often managers say: We don't need that, we give money! – Saying You may have 85 000 parents who have children and who may not be able to afford this! Yes, we confess to a supply! Yes, there are gaps in this system, and we want to make the gaps smaller! But what I don't want is that healthy people who may be able to afford it are about what the sick have to get sometime. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I do not think this is correct either, and as a doctor I tell you, I have seen the twenty times, hundreds of times, that no matter what class of society they come from, sick people are very grateful if health policymakers have thought about stroke, cancer care et cetera 10 or 15 years earlier and have ensured the means. This makes the health system in Austria one of the best in the world! But it should not be kept silent, there are gaps, and we have done a lot in the government programme. I believe that today's decision on dental clamping is a big step in the right direction in dental care. We will support the Minister in this step.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9719	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9740	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! First of all, I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mr Spindelberger, who has asked for substance in the debate – for which I am also, we are all – but still cannot let it be done a little bit of doctor-bashing and diffamation, as well as his statement regarding the 150 e-cards or 200 e-cards that are carried out. I do not think this makes sense and is not correct, so we do not continue in the debate. Please let us all do that – I have already said it in the Health Committee! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] There is no point in constantly attacking a professional group that is truly responsible in the health system in such a way. The topic of toothbands: We from the Stronach team are an economic party, but we are also – and in particular – a family party and a party of children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Child health is one of our priority objectives in health policy, and everything that helps there and helps the children to get healthy and above all to stay healthy, we support it. We therefore also support the introduction of the so-called free gears, with limited consideration: Free is nothing in this world! Of course, this must be paid, we all know. So it's a little euphemism to talk about free gears when it costs something. But we are in favour of this being made available to the children by the state. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, there is of course also criticism of this project – it is not entirely without criticism if you remain objective. The project is likely to be effective in the long term, but much greater problems in the field of child health remain unaffected. We already have a real obesity epidemic among children and young people – most of us already know that. We have to get overweight to the 300 000 children in Austria who are sickly overweight to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not even mentioned in the new health reform programme in the target control! There is something about us that causes suffering and, as a whole, enormous economic costs for the individual concerned, but which unfortunately cannot be found anywhere in a government programme in any way and is not addressed in the forthcoming or already started health reform. I think this is a social and health disaster. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Riemer.]] The Minister said that we should not be able to read about the social origin. In the future, one will be able to read the social origin on the thick belly of the children, because the overweight children usually come from remote and vulnerable layers. That's a fact. They tend to misnutrition, to overnutrition, to lack of sport et cetera. Mr Mückstein has already said that there really is a huge need for action. That's what we need to do. Make you aware every day: This is about the future of people who are extremely vulnerable. The thick children are the diabetics of the future, they suffer strokes, they get sick early. They suffer, and the economy has to cope. – This is a very important point that I believe is missing. That is why we say to the Stronach team that we want a comprehensive approach to health policy. We want a new, inclusive health system, which also includes care, which treats all people, all patients, all citizens in Austria the same, with the same low level of access for all. That is our principle objective. With Flickwerk-Reförmchen, as they are unfortunately once again planned by God, we will not necessarily achieve what is useful to the citizens of this country. I would like to lose one more word on the question of dogs for the blind: I really regret that in a state where social democracy is leading, the blind dog is denied the idea that there should be no subsidies. This is a blow to the face of people with severe disabilities! How to justify this, I'm excited about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9820	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9841	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleague from the Stronach team, right to the correction: The blind, of course, are not denied a grant from the state to the blind dogs, but there is a rule for it. In principle, this request, which has been made, is a social request, but there are concerns that it should be carried out as it stands in it, because dogs are not a measure of medical rehabilitation – in no single country in Europe. There are legal anchorages in Germany and Switzerland, but in Germany, only one to two percent of the blind and severely disabled people have a blind dog due to the legal measures. And in Switzerland, it looks like only professionals are granted this blind dog, but only with a so-called rental agreement, which is laid down by law. Austria is significantly better with the allocation of funds for the blind-led dogs, because in Austria there are funds for the blind-led dogs for those in training, for those in work and also for pensioners. There is a grant from the BMASK for about ten dogs per year. But, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not the state grant, but the problem lies elsewhere. Such a blind dog dog training from the Blind Guided Dog School costs between €33,000 and €40,000! This is a huge sum if one finds that the training of such a blind dog takes only six to eight months. In other words, the training lasts six to eight months, and per day you can work with these dogs – and I am a specialist, I have trained dogs myself and I still train them – for only two hours. That is, one can work with one dog only two hours a day, the training lasts six to eight months, and then one such trainer requires between €33,000 and €40,000. When you face the cost, you know that most dogs are taken from your own breeding. In Austria, there are only three dogs who train dogs, and they mostly take the dogs out of their own breeding; that is, there is no cost here. It is only the costs of the veterinarian who are at this time, and the maximum costs for a so-called partner family, because the blind dog is in a partner family in the first twelve months of its life, where it is employed for the social environment. I claim here, and I have already said this to other requests made: These prices are fraud! There is massive fraud on the back of the visually impaired people. But it not only remains with the blind dogs, there are also signal dogs, there are also service dogs – the same is required. There is also a demand for a grant in the training of these dogs, and the cost is also between €16 000 and €25 000. And the training doesn't take much longer either. A new regulation will come from the BMASK, and I am pleased that there is a motion for a resolution from all the parties that Mr Belakovich will bring in and that it will be a major step that will at least once provide access to all the assistance dogs of people with disabilities. Because that was not the case in Austria either. A blind person did not have the right to take his guide dog to a restaurant or to any building. This could be forbidden by the owner. We have also taken a first step: A regulation by the BMASK on dogs for the blind, service and signal dogs, which also takes many steps, is in preparation and will be under review in the next few days. I think that's the right way. The request made by the Stronach team on this issue – which was written off by an old party who no longer exists in this House – cannot therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9892	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9914	Mr President. Minister! High house! The free gears: Free, benefits for everyone – you feel relocated to the 1970s. What the Federal Government is presenting here is a failure of the special class. The law on free gearing has initially not been reviewed at all. Everything has to go quickly! Objections are anyway somewhere between indescribable and insignificant, but before loud “fast, fast!” SPÖ and ÖVP still have to post an amendment to their own request in the Committee to make corrections. So it's a failure. And even before the law was passed, the electorate has been informed about the forthcoming welfare and has announced this aloud – with the consequence that patients have partly waited for treatment because they hope that it will soon be free. The consequences for the patients on the one hand and the consequences for the service providers on the other – for the dental laboratories, dentists and the orthodontics – can be painted out, which I do not need to do in detail. To medical: The delimitation you propose according to IOTN, where then 4 and 5 are to be free of charge and not 1 to 3, we do not consider appropriate. There are dental errors in category 4, which are relatively easy to treat, and there are others in the same category that are unevenly more complex and treatment complex. No matter how much work a dentist has with the treatment, you simply shave everything over a comb with your suggestion and finance it according to Schema F. The free dental clamp is also not part of a dental overall concept. Then, together with other prophylactic measures, it would have been embedded in this and so filed. No, she's part of a counter-business. The ÖVP has come under pressure because of the planned abolition of the profit-free amount, and then one has to row back, and as a counter-business now the SPÖ has the free tooth band and has bought it so. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Not the SPÖ! 85,000 people!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Not the SPÖ, Mr Colleague!]] And so we're already at the money, Mrs. Königsberger-Ludwig: The money will not be sufficient for the 85 000 gears planned. The main association and the Chamber of Dentists are supposed to understand dental measures that cannot be financed with these €80 million, except for the patient and, I say, the dentists are supposed to be able to do the treatments cost-effectively, but not state-of-the-art, because the money for them is not enough. You don't want to. If you wanted to work cost-effectively with these resources, you would have to put as little effort and as little resources as possible, and that would in turn cause after-treatment, which is not cost-effective. And you don't even have these 80 million € that are promised there. It has already been said that the Structural Funds of the health insurance funds need to be dissolved by €40 million. The cash registers are therefore available directly for half of your constituencies. Mr Federal Minister, if you are so good at spending the money of other people, you have the stuff for the head of state! In the meantime, we are so far as the Chamber of Dentists informs its members that it is likely that the costs of the checkouts of categories IOTN 1 to 3 will not be covered by the defaults of categories IOTN 1 to 3, they should inform their patients about them. – Aha, we haven’t heard of that yet! If the government didn't distribute gifts, we wouldn't have another problem either. We might ask why the health insurance companies are so jealous of the diligent people in this country that they are so merciless. Let me give you an example: If today an employee is a diligent person and still has something to do with it, perhaps in addition to having an independent activity, then he is insured in two cash offices and “may” pay contributions – but one can only be sick once. And the cash registers, to which you always have new and unfunded benefits by law, run around the insured; we also experience this live. A report on the cases where self-employed persons are declared employees against their will from health insurance companies would break the framework. Clients of such self-employed will then have to pay CCC contributions back over years, for periods in which the self-employed have already paid SVA contributions. They don't see the money anymore, they paid health insurance twice for the same period. If you don't think so many benefits to the cash desks, they wouldn't have to scratch the contributions on the back of the hard-working ones. The long-term effects of your political benefits are likely to be small in the age of the hypo. The law has a long-term impact for public debt of over €2 billion – does not matter, the debt is already so high! Finally, the social aspect Your action: Sociable!, always poster. This social justice you now produce with the casting pot. Is it socially fair if everyone gets everything for free? That's the exact opposite of that rich tax you always demand. Now, affluents get something for which they have to pay before. [[Call the SPÖ:Children's allowance! Care aid!]] If you had this socially differentiated and if you want to give the needy one this performance, I absolutely see it – but not with the casting pot over all over it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, Mr Oberhauser and Mr Gisela Wurm.]] In times of scarce funds and empty cash, a responsible handling of public money is an absolute must. Of course, it is desirable for children to be treated with severe dental errors. But there are enough parents who can pay for it themselves. What you are about to decide here is and where green, blue and black are now hopping along, that is policy of the 1970s: everything for everyone. Bruno Kreisky would have his bright joy if he could see the parties who call themselves bourgeois there.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10001	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10022	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Ten years ago I was on a union day of the then trade union Metal and Textile. There a works council member from the textile industry reported that her colleagues are faced with this problem and how the women, mothers are, when they have to say to the child who needs a tooth clamp, they are sorry, they don't have the money, they can't afford a tooth clamp. - That was ten years ago. The trade unions, the works councils have clearly said that something has to change. It takes time, and today is the day, ladies and gentlemen, where you can change it. I am expressly grateful to the coalition partner, especially with honourable Members Rasinger, that it has become possible to include this in a government programme. This government has said within a few days, within a hundred days: We are implementing this measure, we do not want to see the income of the parents at the child's chest! – I am very glad that this will be possible today, and I think that many women, many works councils and works councils who have experienced it on a daily basis today are also very happy. What's this about? – It’s about kids getting a toothband when they need it. In any case, this is the case if they have a tooth failure that the doctors know. IOTN 4 and 5 is a very clear concept that a dentist There is a need for treatment. 85 000 children will be able to be cared for with this – that has already been said. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have just set up the child health dialogue, because I am concerned with making a contribution to improving the supply of children and young people in particular. I also need to relieve parents. And I can only support what Mr Rasinger said: It's not supposed to be against the other. - I think that's important. We are taking a step in dental care today. We have taken many new steps in the child health dialogue. We have also taken new steps, Mr Franz, when it comes to implementing the national action plan on nutrition, the National Action Plan on Movement, in order to be able to respond to the issue of children. You remember: We have made it possible for social health insurance to offer oral hygiene benefits in their dental ambulances. We abolished the restrictions on performance in the dental ambulances. What do we do with this law? – We ensure the provision of services. In other words, people get the benefits in kind and no payments, because in the case of payments, it would always be so that it only plays a role in the pockets of the service providers. A hundred days old is the Faymann II government, and it proves that it guarantees stability and security in uncertain times. Many European countries are saving health, Austria is going a completely different way. There are many examples where we invest in health, where – for example with the HPV vaccination, for example with breast cancer screening, for example with the free midwife consultation – we highlight that we can offer more health in Austria. Austria is the world champion in accessing all people to a good health system, we also want to expand it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear dentists, dear dentists! Dear social insurers! That's a chance! Parliament, the government, the state say: Tooth care is important to us. I invite you now, together with the main association, to make a regulation so that the dental care for children is created. Take the opportunity to implement these total contracts well! You will also be able to use this, we will do a lot for the dental care of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10074	Mr Huainigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10095	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dogs are not only friends, but also valuable helpers and supporters of people with disabilities in everyday life. A blind dog helps to find the way, deaf ones give dogs when they are well trained, correct signals, and wheelchairs serve them as partner dog to help open doors, they press a button or get the mobile phone. But what a dog cannot replace is the help of people. The application falsely states that a blind dog can replace a caregiver. So I don't think a dog will suck off my breathing cannula. We will reject this request because, as has already been said, funding is carried out by the Federal Social Office when it comes to work. In the other area of leisure time, if someone is not employed, there are too many financial gaps, and this should be re-regulated in the provision of aid, as foreseen by the Minister of Social Affairs and in preparation. Today, however, we will make a different request and agree to it, based on an initiative of the Third President of the National Council, Hofer, namely that blind dogs and other dogs, assistance dogs for disabled people, should have access to the various public areas, e.g. in the supermarket or in schools or in Parliament; there is a need for action. I very much welcome this initiative, and we support it. I would like to make a point, namely the Austrian federal constitution. This seems to be a change in the subject at first, but it is not because animal protection is in the federal constitution, but not the dignity of human beings. Armin Thurnher wrote a book entitled “Republic Without Dignity. ” In Germany, the untouchable human dignity is governed by Article 1 of the Basic Law, and in Austria it is not explicitly in the federal constitution. Human dignity is the basis of all human rights. That's why – that's what it's going to be You hear from me even more often – I also believe that the human dignity should be anchored in the Austrian federal constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10134	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Minister! I should like to join with my previous speaker, as far as the initiative of my party colleague, our third President Norbert Hofer is concerned. He succeeded in reaching a six-party agreement and I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this initiative really helps very, very many people. There are about 120 registered dogs of the blind in Austria, which are also mentioned. must: There are not only blind dogs; there are signal dogs, there are service dogs, even deaf people have a service dog with them. I have to say, it is particularly sad that in official buildings it has often not been possible to take the dog. This was, of course, – and this must be said – possible once and for all on the way to the scene, but there was no legal anchorage. I believe that this is really a very big step towards giving these people back a piece of their freedom; otherwise, it would not be possible to see it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As far as Mr Franz's request is concerned, I must say: We have heard from Mr Keck today how expensive it is to train blind dogs. He has said here – and he has announced it much more intensively in the Committee – that it is a matter of massive fraud. If that is the case, Mr Keck, we have long been called upon to stop and stop this fraud. To make yourself here and to say that the public hand cannot take over, because then the dogs are even more expensive and the fraud continues to expand, that is somehow a resignation to the cheaters; that can't be it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that we should – and of course every one of us is required – have a massive influence on this. We from the FPÖ will at least give our consent to the request of the Stronach team. Another request, which is now also being negotiated, is the matter with the mother-child pass. Mr Federal Minister, I have now listened carefully to your speech, and you have listed here what there are all kinds of changes, especially for children. You have said that child health is a special concern to you. I'm especially happy as a mother. Mr. Federal Minister, you mentioned, among other things, that there is a free home examination in the mother-child pass. I would just like to point out to you that this was also the initiative of the opposition – among other things, of us, both liberals and other opposition parties. With a lot of perseverance, you get along a little bit more and more. That's why I'm convinced there's going to be an examination at the dentist's mother-child pass at some point. I think it would be a very logical step to combine a mother-child-pass examination with a tooth clamping system, at least for serious cases. For me, Mr Spindelberger's argument is not visible or understandable. He said in committee that a one-off investigation would not do anything. I'm sure he's right, only a mother-child-pass examination has the sense of bringing mothers, parents into the awareness that dental examinations, dental hygiene, dental care is something that is important in children. That children have bad teeth often depends on the fact that the awareness of parents is not given. I have a son myself who has very big dental problems. I can really say I'm a regular guest with him at a dental clinic in Vienna. I speak there with many doctors, especially dentists, and this confirms the problem that Mr Franz has also mentioned: Of course, it is largely an educational problem, of course, far-reaching shifts are more often affected. That is, there are many parents who are not at all aware that dental care is an essential factor in the early childhood, that this is something important and that this also needs to be done. Of course, this is aware of the dentists, and I believe that people should be referred to it and should. I think it can't be such a very expensive thing to bring a dental examination into the mother-child pass. Also the ophthalmologist visit is only once inside, at the age of 10 months to 14 months; this is in fact a singular examination. Nevertheless, this brings many parents to such an extent that they then go again. The ophthalmologists tell the parents: Come back in a year, come back in half a year, depending on how it would be necessary for the child concerned. I therefore cannot quite understand why this measure is now being rejected. But you can be sure that we will stay on it and we will continue to demand it in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Some sentences still go to the toothband: It was of course for us that we agree. But one thing I would like to say to all parents now – I hope that many affected parents hear it, and, Minister of State, I have missed it again in your speech today: Go to the dentist in good time with your child, even if you wait for it, because no parent knows if the child will enjoy the free gear! So I thought it was incredibly important that all parents go to the dentist with their children today. Those whose children have such serious misconceptions that they get to enjoy the free gears may have the opportunity to wait a few months. For everyone else, however, the sad awakening may only come in 2015. That means they've been waiting for them to lose time, and then they'll have to pay the gears themselves. The law that we decide here today has nothing to do with your election promise, but you also know it's not the free gears for everyone. I cannot, however, understand the way of NEOS, which see this as an unnecessary measure. On the contrary, we see this as a necessary measure, but unfortunately God's not as the measure we would have wished or expected after your statement in the election campaign. You probably know that yourself, Mr Minister, and you might even have liked more, but the financial resources did not make it possible. I want to clean up with one more. Federal Minister! Today you have also said again, the main association gets €80 million, €40 million come from your home, as it were, or the other 40 million from the cash structure fund. I have a crying and a smiling eye, when I hear, the cash register structure fund is dissolved. On the one hand, this was, of course, a measure that has given the cash registers up to a certain amount of air to breathe, on the other hand, on the other hand, one must honestly say that it is certainly the wrong way to permanently pump money into the cash registers, to pump in fresh money. That was your maximum in the last GP. You've been bragging about making the cash registers debt-free. You know just as well as we all know here: Of course, the checkouts are not all debt-free. There are, in part, very massive problems, and these may now also grow again due to these free gears. I would ask you to keep in mind, in spite of all the cost developments, so that this measure may not have to be rescheduled in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10271	This application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10335	Next speaker: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10357	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my civil profession, I have been producing removable orthodontic equipment for years and can therefore be very much recovered from the presence of the Minister and many of us. In terms of content, a lot has already been said. It is certainly a social policy, but above all a health policy achievement, the most vulnerable of our society, namely children. ==References====External links== To provide a necessary orthodontic treatment, especially regardless of the income of parents. Our Federal Minister has said it many times and today again: The income of parents should not be legible at the child's dental status. That's right, Minister of State! Income must not be decisive. This is a high but absolutely folly claim. ==References== The costs are to be taken over by the federal government. In particular, the costs will show parents exactly what it means to pay for a multiannual course of treatment in this causa. Through about 85 000 treatments in children and adolescents per year – that is, I think, not to mention indistinctly – it becomes possible to avoid a eugnatic interconnecting, a normal interconnecting, to reach their bite and thus – and not yet spoken about – to avoid unexpected follow-up costs in non-treatment. There will also be a competition on the Internet to ensure greater transparency, but on the other hand also a regulatory, a necessary level of regulation on the market. I'm convinced of that. However, this law will not only have a lasting effect on social policy and health policy, no, it will also have an economic effect, because the costs of non-treatment will be higher in the future. On the debates in plenary, but also in committee, I would like to say something to Mr Marcus Franzvom Team STRONACH. They turn to the speaker's desk here, the STRONACH team explains to the kids' party, and what else do I know? Let us remember – he is not present now – what he said in committee! 85 000 children, who do not include families, are called marginal groups. – Thank you, that shows what the Children’s Party team STRONACH is. The NEOS: Policy of the Seventies. I hope you have benefited from the policy of the 1970s, from free access to education, otherwise I only understand the saying of free and free of charge, I think you know that. They always represent themselves as the smart economic party that you do not seem to be at all. In addition to the social and health aspects, you obviously did not see the economic aspect. The FPÖ will take this as an election force. Mr. Dr. Karlsböck – unfortunately he is now, I believe, not even present – I cannot agree with that! This is not a campaigning gag, nor a populist measure, as the Greens have justified, but now they do agree. I am glad that Health Minister Stöger, as this presentation shows, has the right look on health issues, and I would like to congratulate him on this. In conclusion: It is important to me that children have healthy teeth, regardless of the income of their parents!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10424	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10445	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A blind guide dog can be a substitute for the lost eyelight for the visually impaired. That should be aware of all of us. If you look at the costs, as we have heard again and again today, then, I mean, in the long run, a blind dog will certainly come cheaper than constant care and Accompanied staff. For a person who is blind and needs help, dependent on foreign help, a trained blind dog is a reliable and faithful friend and companion. It gives the affected person a sense of security. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what is possible in Switzerland and Germany, must also be possible in Austria, namely that blind dogs are officially recognized as a rehabilitation remedy. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In Germany, the blind dog is considered as an aid within the meaning of the health insurance law, and this must be possible in Austria as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10484	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10505	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! If you let the statements of the opposition to the free tooth band happen a little bit of revue, then you can say: All right done is an art that no one can do. Or: If you want, you'll find a hair everywhere in the soup. For one thing, this scheme is unfair because it is not extended to all and because it is not introduced until next year, it is obviously too late for it. For the others, in turn, it is unfair because it benefits all population groups regardless of income. So as you do, you're obviously doing it wrong. The fact is, however, that this measure is essential and has a very, very important – that has already been addressed – social aspect. It is not only about the fact that untreated tooth and jaw defects can also lead to misalignment in the cervical spine and later even cause behavioural damage, but also about the psychological effects. I've been lucky not to need a toothband, I've had and I've got a bit of a straight bite. But most of you probably still know colleagues from the school who didn't do it that way and who then had to beat around with “hasenge bites” and similar nicknames and who also hurt it very much. This also has very often long-term effects, because at this age one is not really so firm and hurts one very much. Therefore, the sentence of the Minister of Health, which has often been said, does not lead a child to look at the social origin at the bites, to the right approach, namely those who have serious dental defects, to make the right treatment grow at the right time. If one calculates the possible effects that such errors may have, i.e. the behavioural damage that I have mentioned, which can occur, then one can say that this is similar to prevention. On the colleague Mückstein regarding the care of children with the necessary therapies: As a child physiotherapist, you are running into open doors with this, but, as our health spokesman Erwin Rasinger has already said, the problem has already been recognized, it is also in the government programme, and therefore the Minister will also make great efforts to implement it in this GP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10541	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10563	Mr National Council President! Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject we are discussing today is a really fine thing. This is a six-party request concerning the assistance dogs. I would like to remind you that many people may not be so clear that the green support has really made some progress. There was and is a working group in the Social Ministry that takes care of the topic of assistance dogs. In assistance dogs, there are three different types: first blind dogs, second service dogs and third signal dogs, and there is no equality between these three species. It is now the first time we have experienced this equality. So that's a point we can cut off. Assistant dogs may now also enter everywhere, not only blind dogs. This is a very important thing, one thing, I would like to say to you, which actually did not cause any cost and nevertheless took a lot of time. But there are other homework that we have to do, there are other things to do, and we should be very quick. There is the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. Nevertheless, people with disabilities experience over and over again that they really have to act as bitters. I therefore ask the two government parties to rise from their seats and to ensure that all other points, apart from the assistance dogs, are implemented by all concerned in the sense of equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10596	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10617	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! We have one of the best health systems worldwide in Austria. That is why I am very surprised at the discussion today that an improvement of the opposition can again be so mispronounced. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I am also a little surprised! I don't think you understood what it's all about. You're a little overwhelmed with the content!]] We are implementing a part of the government programme today, but the opposition, which usually goes too slowly, is too fast today. So I'm a little surprised. Especially our children are those who need our protection. It is necessary that they grow up in equal opportunities. In order for the children to have a “beautiful smile, ” parents must take care of them in their childhood. However, their smile should not only be beautiful, but dental care is also healthy for the child, as it avoids diseases such as caries or other dental diseases. Of course, this also protects children from later social exclusions and disadvantages in the private and professional environment. According to the Ministry of Health, this is a good thing for 85 000 children a year. We have also heard that the regulation does not concern cosmetic beautification, but only those who are highly affected should be up to the 18th century. You're gonna get a free gear span. I would also particularly like to point out that this is, of course, a great improvement for our single parents if the benefits are, as it were, taken over by the health insurance fund. It has also been mentioned that this can also save follow-up costs, so we save something in the health system. There was a discussion today about whether there is a certainty of meeting. I think everyone has the right to be well cared for. One important point I would like to address is the amendment tabled, namely that the measures should be taken across the board and that the rural region is not the one that is not so well cared for. This bill is a good step towards more health prevention for our children, but also a step towards more equal opportunities and the relief of our families, which is very important at this time.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10656	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, including title and receipt in 82 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This too is largely accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Dr. Mückstein, colleagues, on the introduction of a specialist dentist for pine orthodontics. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mückstein, colleagues, on the closure of the major health and safety gaps in the area of child and youth health. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Health Objective Control Act, including title and entry into 83 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 84 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 85 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, Königsberger-Ludwig, Dr Huainigg, Mag. Jarmer, Ing. Dietrich, Mag. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on access to assistance dogs for people with disabilities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 9.) [[12:57:40]] 5. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (33 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the German Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH, the Social Insurance Supplement Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Federal Law on Health and Accident Insurance, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Hospitals, the Pharmacovigilance Act, the Medical Equipment Act 1998, the Music Therapy Act, the Psychotherapy Act, the EEA Psychotherapy Act, the EEA Psychotherapy Act, the Psychologistic Law 2013, the Cardiotechnic Law, the Medical Assistance Act, the Medical Massives Act, the Sanitary Law, the Dental Law and the Family Responsibilities Act 1967 (EU-Patient Mobility Act – EU-PMG) (77 d.B.) 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 86/A(E) by Dr Eva Mückstein, Members of Parliament on the legal limitation of the maximum working time for nurses (78 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 104/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Ladies and gentlemen, on Legal limitation of the permitted term of service to a maximum of 25 hours of continuous service (79, e.g.) 8. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 102/A(E) by Dr Andreas Karlsböck, colleagues on the concept of health (80 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 170/A(E) by Dr Marcus Franz, colleagues on “New structures for Austria – Summary of social security funds and comprehensive health reform” (81 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10839	We now come to points 5 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10867	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a whole series of applications, and I'm going to put the horse a little bit from the back. Firstly, on the request of the Stronach team concerning the aggregation of social security funds. This is an ancient freedom requirement, of course we will give it our consent. It is not clear to me at all why the government parties have been bent for years on the fact that no merger is to come. We have a multi-class system in our health care. Depending on where you are insured, the benefits will be passed on to the patients in any way. There is no even harmonisation between the individual cash registers, and this is simply not to be seen, because I believe it is the same for the population from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. In the meantime, that would have to have been the case with the government parties. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] With regard to the two requests concerning the legal limitation of permitted working time to a maximum of 25 hours, which we refer to the Committee, I would just like to give a brief indication, namely that the EU is considering Austria in the meantime. So I hope that we can do this in the next Committee. We will, of course, have the opportunity to talk about it. Now the government template, the so-called EU patient mobility law. Ladies and gentlemen, you may not be surprised, but we will in no way give our consent to this matter of law. We can't even make it in Austria that we can mobilely move patients between Lower Austria and Vienna. There are obvious problems. This is mainly known by people who live in the surrounding region of Vienna, who have to be led somewhere, in hospitals in the middle of Lower Austria, and who have long-standing access to the hospital. Away. There is hardly any possibility of an exchange with Vienna so that these patients come to a Vienna hospital. I also wonder how this is supposed to continue, Minister of State. It was not only with you, but also in the previous debate several times that Austria has one of the best health systems worldwide, but of course also within the EU. I wonder, then, whether Austria will not become the target country number one for patients from all over Europe, from all over the EU, who will come to us and can be treated here with us. How is the Austrian health system supposed to do this at all, Mr. Federal Minister? We have had an blatant medical shortage in Austria for years. Hospital doctors complain that they just don't make it anymore. Doctors have an enormously high burnout rate. In the established area, cash registers are permanently saved instead of being expanded. Although it is always tried to open up new housings, there is hardly any medical infrastructure. This is to be found in the example of Vienna. ==References====External links== District, this is one of the districts with growing population, not additional doctors. So there is a lack of everything here, the cash registers are saving everywhere, and yet the patients from all over Europe want to get here. I don't think that's something that can be seen positively for Austria, but quite the contrary. And then there is something else, Mr Federal Minister, which is also the financing. How exactly is that paid off? – You know that there are problems now, for example, with English people who can be treated in Austria, who are also insured in England, but in which the English health insurance institution says they are sorry, but in England this is not refunded, and therefore no money is transferred to Austria. That is why I believe that you should be on the table once and for all within this EU. If you really want to get it seriously with the best health system here and also for the Austrians, then it is your duty to click on the table and say: No, we don't! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria is the country that has only its disadvantages. Mr. Federal Minister, I would expect that from you. In this sense, we will certainly refuse to accept this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10934	Mrs Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10955	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Belakovich said that there are many applications and also laws in this conglomerate on agenda items. I would perhaps like to pick it up from the 25-hour history, from the requests made by both you and the colleague Mückstein concerning the regulation of working hours for doctors. It's a long approach. For many, many years now, doctors have been trying to limit their services to 25 hours. When I started working, it was still common for you to work through lunch from Friday in the morning to Monday. This was done with the Hospital Working Time Act – I say – reduced half-tolerable times. We and the Social Ministry, the trade unions and medical chambers have been negotiating for many years in the hope of coming down to 25 hours. And that's why we're back to the discussion, who's blocking it, who's blocking it. These are currently the countries that simply block in the concern that it causes additional costs. We have to say that there are already agreements in some countries. There are already regulations in Vienna in the AKH and in the Hospital Association to limit to 25 hours. That is, we have progressed in that case. Nevertheless, I believe that there will be an urgent need to discuss this, also on the question of the warning procedure we have in the EU, or on the question of how long doctors can work on the average, where an average 48-hour week is thought of by the European Union. On average, our doctors are allowed to work 60 hours a week, i.e. there will be a need for action. And I hope that we can work together, perhaps, to bring the countries into duty, so that we can slide in these times too. The second story is Mrs Mückstein's name-called vote on the part of the Psychologists' and Psychologists' Act, which is contained in the Patient Mobility Act, which has caused some unrest in us. Many of you, who have already been here in the last legislative period, remember the intense discussions we have held in order to pass the Psychologists' and Psychologists' Law here unanimously last year. At the time, there were disagreements as to whether the differentiation of individual professional groups, as has been done here, was correct. Only once again to clarify: The Psychologist Law, Psychologist Law is a law that regulates professional practice and training. What we are doing here is to take away the concerns of the life and social advisers, who are a trader, that we enter into their field with the professional law. That was never the intention of this House, was always clearly negotiated with the groups, and there is a linguistic clarification here. What we're doing here is in no way a circumcision of psychologists or an extension of life and social advisers. It's just a clarification. We do not know why Mr Mückstein is calling for a nameable vote here. I suppose we'll probably see what's going on in the back. On the question of patient mobility: It is a European directive that makes it clear what we have for a long time, namely that people who come abroad from Austria to make therapies, such as child rehabilitations, which are not yet available in Austria to date, need to obtain a preliminary report, a confirmation in order to be able to calculate it there. The same applies – as it is within the framework of the European Union – to vice versa. I don't think we have to expect English patients to go to England, let them get there, come here, get treated, and push our people out of treatment. I think that's one – I say now – panic. We also remember the 1st century. May, from which millions of workers should have come to Austria. That's what I see. Let's take a look at this. I think this is a good thing, even for Austrians, and I warn against panic as far as inflows from abroad are concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11015	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11036	Ladies and gentlemen! Some points first of all about the EU patient mobility law and this part of the Psychologists' Act, in which we have made an application to give legal certainty to social and life consultants and business consultants. What's the story about that? – Originally, there was a draft law for the new Psychologists Act 2013, which would have been strange and at that time also unilaterally supported by the ÖVP very deeply in adjacent professional groups, namely in the field of psychotherapists and also in the field of doctors with training on psychotherapeutic medicine or specialist doctors for psychiatry. At that time, the doctors and psychiatrists succeeded in bringing this law back to the basis that their own professional qualifications were secured. But one has forgotten a bit about the life and social advisers. The Psychologist Law and Psychologist Law is a two-part law. On the one hand, it concerns the clinical psychologists, who are also entitled to medical treatment, and on the other hand, it concerns health psychologists who are more advisory and, for example, also perform such things as burnout prophylaxis, prevention, prevention, nutrition and sports advice, but not just health care. In this area, there is an overlap with the life and social consultants and also with the business consultants who are responsible for the burnout prophylaxis in companies, for example. The Ministry of Health has always stressed that I would also like to admit that this is a professional reservation. However, a letter from the professional association of psychologists recently came to understand this as a reservation of activity. That is why we want to ensure legal certainty for the professional groups referred to in the trade regulation with the amendment you have tabled. Maximum working time for hospital doctors: We have tabled an application which is now being allocated to the Committee. In principle, I think that is positive. I hope that he will also be treated positively there. You all know, there is a reminder from the EU, our doctors work far too much. This is not good for both doctors and doctors, who are most at risk of burnout, but it is especially not good for young doctors who are socialized in this system, where overload is programmed and is so immanent in the system that it is quite natural to bend this pressure. And of course we also need to think about patient safety here, because it certainly can't be good for patients if they are treated by dead tired and revised doctors. We will not agree to the concept of health by Dr. Karlsböck, although there are a number of points which are in our interest and which concern us: The medical training, the pooling of the financing responsibility and that doctors can employ doctors, these are also long-standing demands of the Greens. Finally, there is also a request from Mr Dr Franz, whom we will support. The main issue here is the aggregation of social security funds. This is also an ancient demand of the Greens under the keyword of debureaucratisation, administrative simplification, but above all also patient equal treatment and care justice, because it is still not see why what you get for your money is to depend on the registration note. However, I would also like to state quite specifically what we do not approve of this request: The purchase of services on the Austrian health market, says privatization of the health system, is certainly not supported by the Greens. We are in favour of the fact that insured persons still choose their own health care officials and have more decision-making options than they have before, so on the contrary, more of a force. We have called for a name-named vote to stress our concerns as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11097	The amendment tabled by Mrs Mückstein in his key points is part of the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11212	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11233	Mrs Mückstein, I have to deal with your comments for the second time today, because you are becoming more and more a health-political spirit driver. From time to time, you ask for things that you completely rejected at first – in the Psychologists' Act, where you demanded something else a year ago. But I take note of that. We provide the clarification: We did not want to intervene in the profession of the health consultant at all, and it is made clear – for everyone who is afraid – that it is ultimately also about quality of advice. Applications concerning the limitation of working time to no more than 25 hours: I hope that the EU will not condemn us or break us in court. Medicine has changed. Earlier, 30 years ago, you might have had 72 hours of services. Now the work has become so compact that someone who works on an accident surgery for 25 hours, when he is operating on the last patient, according to studies, is in a state as if you are driving 0.8 Promille car. [[Abg. Karlsböck: Gejammert has always been!]] No one wants to be operated on by an overly tired doctor. Remember – medicine is female – what we do to women. It is the case worldwide that working hours are going down. America has reduced working hours. Why? – Because we know very well that we have nothing of it when we drive overtired doctors into the burnout. Unfortunately, the burnout rate for doctors and nurses is twice as high as the average of the population. And remember one more thing: Should a mistake occur in the hospital, for whatever reason, it is a disaster – and usually a career stop – for the doctor concerned, but also, of course, for the patient. We can be a patient at any time, and that is why, as difficult as it is to implement for some carriers, this is an important thing. The matter of merger will then be discussed by Mr Franz. I have already told him that it is simply naïve in my eyes to believe that, when you put the health insurance companies together, the costs are reduced to zero. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Maybe we have a performance evaluation!]] This is absolutely naïve and, in fact, your intelligence is more vulnerable. What you're producing is a new central bureaucracy, and bureaucracies tend to be anti-competitive and actually very difficult. I'm surprised. If you look abroad, Germany has now reduced from over 1,000 health insurances to less than 200, Switzerland has much more than Austria – so so so many are not in Austria at all. Please do not eliminate the rest of comparability. It's a meddling walk. But to talk to the people, if you centralize everything, it will be better in Vorarlberg, in Lower Austria or in any valley, an insult to your intelligence. The famous 500 million do not fall out at the end, on the contrary, there will not be a big deal, but the performance will get worse.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11283	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11304	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Thank you for the intelligence test, I hope it will last better now than in your speech. I know this is an old subject that does not bring us together, but is far from – the dramatization of the Englishization of the Austrian health system that floats in space, because in England everything is so terrible in the systems, and in countries that have state or national systems, everything is horrendous and terrible and people die in the ambulances. – That’s all just a panic, we had today, she’s not good. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the debate on the subject, it looks quite different. We know that Austrian health care is still good. We often say a little extravagantly, it's the best health system in the world, but it's so good because the health professions – and thus I mean all health professions – are idealistic about it and are committed. They cut themselves pure – in the truest sense of the word. This is the surface that the patient sees. She's still good. The surface offers low level of access and is for the individual, for the citizen, the patient, when he needs the system, really fine. But we've heard at what price: Burnout, long working hours, early retirement, occupational change. A sister is active in her profession for an average of five to seven years – this is a terrible pity when you know that the training alone lasts four years. These are catastrophic conditions under this surface. But what are we doing in Austria? – We constantly repair the surface. If there was an "Oscar" for cosmetic medicine in politics, then we would win it every year, with these measures we are taking. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We doctors always talk about the system and try to communicate that we take care of it in health policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is always too little, because health reform has been a permanent topic since I remember and since I am in medicine – that is now also the 30 years – and has changed little to nothing. The current health reform is also characterized by beautiful phrases such as “target control” and “cost-reduction path” and the “best point of service” – which is now in all its mouths at all. It all sounds very nice, perhaps it's also very useful in individual cases, but in the matter it won't change anything. Why? – We keep our health insurance fund bottled and we know it, over the Fleckerlteppich you can easily stumble over when you go too fast. We keep the Zig-Class system because the profession still determines the membership of the cash register. Some checkouts are better, some business better, some worse. The patient is pressed into this system and cannot decide freely. We have a huge amount of unclear funding flows, it is said to be due to the 4,000 different funding channels in the health system, which no human can see through. A retired section head at the Ministry of Health has once said that there are exactly three people in Austria who recognize themselves, the minister never belongs to it. – I hope I can quote the Lord, he is now in Carinthia. – In any case, the federal nonsense remains. We still have no control over the problems that we are talking about all the time and which we want to solve. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic problem – which Erwin Rasinger referred to briefly but has not received – is the pay-dependent contribution system. That's, please, 140 years old. It comes from Bismarck's times and therefore also called Bismarck system. The sick person will only be well cared for if he is refinanced by his contributions which he makes to work. It works when people die young. But what do we have? – We have a total change in demographics compared to Bismarck’s times. We have the water head in the area of older fellow citizens and the bottleneck in the area of younger contributors. That's the basic problem. That is to say, we come with the system of contributions and the increasing unemployment at the end of financial viability and we must at least co-finance it through taxes or find completely different ways of financing it. Our project, the Austrian health insurance system, is a combination of all these fleckerlteppic health systems, which can be found on the market in Austria, which are partly counterproductive and hinder each other. This must work through an outpatient and a stationary area that is really financed from a single source. We need transparent funding through individual citizens, through fixed premiums, which we must make dependent on income, as we do now. There will be people who have to pay more, and there will be people who pay less. You have to valorize this every year. You have to look at that and control it. Only with this can one create uniform service catalogues in Austria and also work with them. Only then do we have the comparability of the services, and only by doing so will we create transparency. Then we're right at the point: It is not the reduction of administration that will save us the costs, but the secondary effects. Then we can really observe: Where does money lie, where do we consume too much, where may we need to invest more? Finally, we can make a much better clear statement. And it's not only getting better for the patient, it's also getting cheaper overall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11372	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11393	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! There are a number of applications. First of all, I come to the patient mobility law, with which we repair, among other things, the Psychologists' law – once again a coup that is based on your process – fast, fast! – has come about. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But that was not so easy, fast! You have to say that!]] Yeah, well, it's being repaired. To reduce medical work twice to 25 hours per piece: That's just a part of the story. The other part of the matter is the weekly working time of 72 hours, which we still allow in Austria. This in itself shows how strange the Austrian legislation is. For an officeman like me, a weekly working time of 50 hours applies, but for doctors responsible for body and life, we allow 72 hours a week. That doesn't have a logic. We must not consider this requested 25-hour limit in isolation. You also have to place yourself in the doctors and ask yourself what they have for a weekly course. Does not a doctor have a right to a weekend? If we break down the working hours of the doctors so that they always work for only 25 hours, then they simply have to come more often to deal with the work – because the doctors cannot multiply in numbers now – and thus no longer stages of leisure time and – now I emphasize – rest periods for the doctors. They will only rarely have a whole weekend for themselves. Especially in small hospitals with small departments, there will be a huge problem when it enters the holiday phase. I would like a lot of fun for those who have to plan it and answer it. This leads to the following essential factor: Why do the young doctors like to do several services per month? – This is necessary in order to achieve a decent monthly relationship. What does the payment look like when we simply implement the reform? – Less working hours, fewer night services, fewer weekends mean different depending on the federal state, less overtime, fewer allowances, less money. Now that we are discussing a lack of young people, we think that we are wrong to decide even less-favoured measures. We must therefore regulate the remuneration. And it's going to be exciting, because the federal states, the federal government for working time, are responsible for the remuneration. This is a magnificent piece of the Austrian style of federalism. We have enough doctors in Austria – we know that too – in the OECD comparison. In the relation per 1 000 inhabitants we are even third. They're just not in the hospitals. We don't have enough there. This is due, among other things, to the fact that work in hospitals is too little attractive. You have to think about it. What happens in medical education? How's she going? How structured and thoughtful is it? What activities do the doctors, which caregivers? What measures are being taken to direct the number of patients, namely, to the established doctors instead of to the hospitals? All this has not been known since today, just as the EU Working Time Directive has not been known since today. The government has set its health priorities, and instead the doctors take care of the free gears.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11430	Mr Karlsböck spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11451	Mr President. Minister! Wherever he's right, he's right, the previous speaker. Let me briefly make a few comments on the previous statements on this item on the agenda. I would also like to comment on these working time laws. We have been working as a liberal for a long time to ensure that working hours in the sick ................................................................................................................................................................ This is a constant violation of our right, of European law, of working time directives. We have put this in jeopardy and have put in countless applications, all of which have at best been postponed, if not rejected. Now, of course, we have an Austrian problem, as at the time when studying medicine, namely that the EU is now saying: Now it takes us, now you have to go through it, or we'll just execute it and just! And now all are outraged and say: This is not so fast!, and if it needs to be done, then something like that happens at the AKH half a year ago, because from today on to tomorrow a recorded system – as has already been explained by previous speakers – suddenly gets a new set-up. That is, we have a number of doctors working in a hospital. They also have a latte of different motives, why they do these overtime at all. If I now reduce these working hours, I simply need more doctors. And Austria is simply not prepared for that. Mr Minister, there are beautiful speeches from you and also from other officials. The fact is, we're missing doctors. This is a really new phenomenon. When I started in the hospital at the time, we were happy to do night shifts. We were happy. We have also earned a lot of money with it, and the burden has not mattered to us, because the burden was a different one from today. Today, all of this is no longer possible for a variety of reasons. But it has not changed the structure either. That is, perhaps because the birth-like years are now going off, we simply have too few doctors, even too few doctors in training for future times. That is why we say – I am also the scientific speaker of my party – that we need simply and simply more training places in this country, whether this is through our own universities or through a capacity increase, I do not really care about it. We need that simple and simple. In hospitals, we also need to get away from the burdens that young doctors have. The administrative burden is always under the motto: We need to increase quality! In reality, increasing quality – a beautiful keyword – means a greater amount of pointless documentation, and in the final effect this is done by the doctors in their work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My core requirement in this area – and I am not going down from it – is simple and simple: We need to get the patient streams out of the hospitals, as it is so beautiful, and lead them into the settled area. We also need to see that in the settled area, i.e. with doctors with practices, the practices are open in the evening and weekend. You can't do that. To say, we force you, otherwise we will take you away from the contract – that can't be done! We need to consider new structures. My core requirement – I am not alone and I also know what I am talking about: In the health insurance area, doctors must also be allowed to hire doctors! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] People don't know that. I say it again and again: It is not possible in Austria to recruit doctors in a checkout practice. You always say so lapidar: Well, then they should do it, then it's just a hospital! because that sounds funny. I mean, We are moving at a very serious level in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm just saying something. Do you know how the dentists have been doing this for decades? - They perfected the whole system. In Vienna there is a dental night service that works until 2 am or 3 pm at night, and a perfect extended weekend service. Two or three colleagues are always on duty. They get 100 percent more than what is usually the health insurance contract. That's a lot more money you deserve. You can really make a lot of money as a single person at this time when you have to do a lot of things, but the overall system, of course, is much cheaper when one is concentrated and the people sitting there are trying to do it. This is something, Mr Minister, I have not seen any initiatives by you at all to date about how you want to deal with the abuse that doctors cannot employ doctors. Not only in the hospital, but also in the established area, there is a medical emergency, because if we really reduce from today to tomorrow to 25 hours, which is our demand, then we must ensure that the conditions are right. We need to consider how we have more doctors in hospitals in the medium term. And I don't have any concept.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11538	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11560	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Mr Karlsböck, I mean, when you talk about health policy and doctors, of course you always have to think with the patient. Health policy is also responsible for this. I am entirely of your opinion, and I am also against the fact that one says that the SPÖ will operate medical bashing. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But from Mr Spindelberger already!]] I am entirely of your opinion, namely that doctors do very well, no matter what sector, established sector or hospital sector. We know that doctors are eerie trusted people, including patients. They are experts in whose hands sick people go and who must also be trusted that they work well. And they work well, too. I really want to stress this on the part of social democracy. I do not see it as you have mentioned it, Mr Karlsböck, that the Minister is not aware of this problem. On the contrary! I am now completely new to the Health Committee, I have read very well and I have seen what has been done in recent years, namely by our Federal Minister Stöger. I already have the impression that he has dealt with this very problem that you have addressed, this interface loss between established and hospitalized doctors, including cooperation with the countries, the federal government and social security institutions. I believe that in the context of this health debate, which was launched in 2011, I believe, with many working groups, where many actors have worked, health insurance institutions, countries, social security agencies, politics, have taken very good steps. As you all know, we have defined ten health targets. One point is child health, which has already been mentioned today, which has also been mentioned by the Minister. Now there is the Federal Objective concept and also the Country Target Control Group and the Federal Target Taxation Contracts, where attention is again paid precisely to and wherever one is obliged to implement precisely these points, namely, result orientation and what comes to the patient. You have to look at the supply structure, whatever you have mentioned. Name: How can hospitals and established doctors work together better? Supply processes are to be looked at and, of course, the financial goals – that is necessary today and are becoming increasingly necessary. You also know, Mr Karlsböck, that there will be a monitoring report which will be published this middle of the year for the first time, where we can simply see how this health reform, which has been decided in Parliament, will be implemented. I do not want to talk about the problems or the challenges – this is a more beautiful word than the word “problem”, I think – but that if you are working in politics, I do not think everything is right, because I believe that we have a health system in Austria, to which many people envy us. That's true! I also believe that it is a very good sign that almost 100 percent of all people in Austria are covered by health insurance. This really makes it possible to take advantage of everyone and any medical care, regardless of the wallet, and that should be done together, I think, or sometimes good. Perhaps, Dr. Karlsböck, if this is positive, it will help to encourage more young people to become a doctor or a doctor, because we need the motivated doctors so that we can actually offer health services in high quality. [[Abg. Karlsböck: This is, of course, the task of the opposition!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We just need more places to study!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11626	The next item is the speech by Mr Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11647	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we decide on the EU patient mobility law, we ensure that people who work in Europe also have the appropriate health protection. I have been asked if I have been involved in the European Union so that the Austrian health system can deal with it. - Yes, I did. I have fought for the need for prior authorisation if health insurance benefits are used by Austria and vice versa. It is about ensuring social protection and ensuring that Austrian service providers can also rely on them to receive their services. I believe that this is an important step in ensuring security here. Another point: We have set up an information centre at the Gesundheit Österreich GmbH, where you can find out where you can get information and services in Austria. Allow me to make a further statement to show how important the Austrian social security system is. The social security system is a citizens' initiative. It was created by a citizens' initiative more than 100 years ago. People have come together to have protection when they're sick. I think that this citizens' initiative, which brought us health protection more than 100 years ago, is very, very much. I also think it is very important that we have health care institutions, health insurance institutions, especially in the countries, that there are those responsible for the country's target tax contracts with the national medical chambers, with the on-site facilities discussing, responsible for them and implementing the supply on-site. Therefore, we need social security funds, in particular in the federal states. To stress this is particularly important to me in this debate. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11684	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11705	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck! I can thank you because I think there are a lot of requests from doctors, including from the countries, that they can finally hire doctors. I think that's a necessity. Mr. Minister! I think you can't lock this either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on limiting the maximum working time for doctors. A novel on the time-time law on the reduction of working time already announced in 2011 has not yet been achieved. Unfortunately! The EU now calls for a maximum limit on working time of up to 48 hours per week for nurses, not up to 72 hours per week. The medical profession has long called for a reduction in the permitted service time to a maximum of 25 hours. There was no welcome of this federal government in this matter. Work agreements and major efforts had to be made on the part of works councils, nurses' representatives, and on the other hand, to ensure that regulations were made to ensure that appropriate working hours could be installed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What is still very important to us from FPÖ is that the doctors, especially those in the hospital area, are finally relieved of the enormous red tape so that they can have more time for patients again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11744	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11766	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One could, so to speak, put the subject of safety for patients over the various applications dealt with here. The Patient Mobility Act – which has already been implemented – deals with safety in the use of medical services in Germany and abroad. There are still very different health systems within the EU. This has had very bad consequences for some who are ill abroad. This directive is now taking a step towards harmonising these health systems. This means, for citizens, that there is a special reimbursement for a large number of treatments abroad with a prior authorisation granted by Austrian health insurance companies. Of course, this right – it is a European Union – also exists for foreign citizens who need treatment in Austria. I would say here, too, that panic is certainly not the right concept. So there is security for those concerned not only as regards financial matters, but also as regards the quality of the services provided, because this too is further concrete in this law. The two agenda items 6 and 7, which are both allocated to the Committee, deal with the hot issue of working time for doctors. There too you have to say: From the side of patient safety, there must be a reasonable reduction in working time for doctors in the near future. I worked in the early 1980s as a Bobath therapist in the children's hospital. At that time, the weekend work time of a specialist in training took from Saturday 7 a.m. to Monday 12 o'clock, i.e. 53 hours. Thank God this has been a thing of the past for a long time. But – and I am right about this to Mr Karlsböck – a problem that needs to be kept in mind, of course, is the issue of the availability of adequate gymnastics and specialists, i.e. the problem of medical research. It is now because of the fact that many screws have to be turned. For example, in the hospitals of GESPAG in Upper Austria, 65 gymnasticians and 53 specialists are already missing. Although about 50 percent of cases have succeeded in limiting the average working time to 25 hours in a piece, only about 50 percent. In order to maintain the operation fully and allow patients to receive adequate treatment at any time, it is necessary, in part, to work with significantly longer services. This is an unsatisfying state, that is beyond doubt. Therefore, it will be quite a challenge to find solutions in an adequate time that will ensure the safety of patients on the one hand, the health of doctors on the other, but also the maintenance of medical care in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11808	The next item is the speech by Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11829	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The EU patient mobility law amends and complements various legal instruments that are very important for health care. The key points here are always cross-border patient rights in health care. I would like to focus briefly on some of the points of this legislative matter. We know that with the 2nd. Social Insurance Law Amending Act 2013 for accidents of servants who, due to the performance of the present service or civil service or for voluntary services in the rescues and fire brigades in the context of civil protection or disaster aid, are now receiving the grant of a difference for the payment period. A clarification was made with this legislative matter because it was not certain when exactly this financial support should apply to which accidents. It will now be regulated that it will apply to those accidents mentioned earlier – which will be after the 30th century. This provision has to be applied in July. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, in this law too, a small part of the cost of wages is associated with the question which is the big issue in us: The relief of the factor of work is thus ensured. Another important point for me is that the operators of public pharmacies are now also obliged to take out professional liability insurance, just as it is already laid down in the Medical Law or the Dentist Law. As a key point, I believe that this professional liability insurance is valid not only for the time of the pharmacovigilance, but also for damage cases. I think that will make consumers More protection is granted or, where damage occurs, a right to information such as professional liability insurance is granted. This law also, I think, lays down important transitional provisions, which are transitional provisions for the recognition of the ordination seminars or ordination seminars. This will make it possible for professional qualifications to continue. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that 3,000 people in Lower Austria are affected by this, which results in more professional qualifications, namely, a professional qualification as ordination assistant or ordination assistant. I think that this measure not only has a vocational education and training policy aspect, but it is also a social and employment/training qualification measure. I would like to comment briefly on Mr Franz's request, and I can only say: With social democracy, there will be no departure from compulsory insurance into an insurance obligation or a departure from self-administration in social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11875	As the last speaker to speak, Mrs Fichtinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11896	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery as well as in front of the TV screens! On the topic of EU patient mobility law: A total of 21 social and health legislation will be amended in the near future. These measures shall be taken by the Federal Government to comply with Union law. In the case of cross-border healthcare, patient rights are strengthened, and the related reimbursement of costs is incorporated into national law. For example, adequate health care is ensured throughout the Union. This is of great importance to all citizens. What does that mean? – Equal treatment for domestic and foreign patients in Austria is regulated. Recipes issued abroad in the EU are much easier to recognise by this collection oven in the country. The obligation to provide information was also concrete. An innovation is due to the establishment of Österreich GmbH, which is an information and contact point that will be available for cross-border healthcare. The mandatory professional liability in the Pharmacy Act and the Psychotherapy Act has also been established. With regard to applications concerning the establishment of the continuous working time of nurses to a maximum of 25 hours, the allocation to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has certainly been made. It is a big problem if in the medical field errors occur due to heavy overload. Of course, this hurts the physician once, because he comes up with a big problem. But a much bigger problem is: It primarily harms patients, of course. This is probably a very big problem. The well-being of both groups simply has to be at our heart. The committee responsible will certainly accept this matter. To the request of the Stronach team concerning the merger of social security funds, I would just like to say that the savings potential of the merger in the administrative field is not very high. I was very surprised myself that it is only 2 to 3 percent of the total budget. Of course, it would also be a possibility to say with extreme hardness: Release 100 people! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Could it be that you don't even know yourself?]] But even that would not solve any financial problem. It is important, as foreseen in the government programme, to implement important simplifications in the field of reporting, insurance and contribution rules – there is certainly a lot to do – for the insured. Then: Much is certainly complicated and hard to see through for the individual insured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11935	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no wish of the rapporteur for a final word. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft EU patient mobility law, in 77 of the supplements. Mr Mückstein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the draft law concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Mr Mückstein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Mückstein, for his excellent report. 15,................................................................................................................................................................................. The vote has been taken on this subject. As this request was made by 20 Members, this vote must be taken. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Member of Parliament and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Mückstein, colleagues, 'Yes' vote, and those who want to vote against, 'No' vote. To throw into the urn. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12034	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for this purpose for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12072	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 168; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 33, No votes: 135. The amendment or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Dr. Mückstein, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Dietrich; Ertlschweiger; Franz; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hagen; Jarmer; cook, kogler, korun; Lightenecker, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol; Pirklhuber; Rossmann; Treasure, gift, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinbichler, Steinhauser; Of a thickness Walser, refuser, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Bösch, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Darmann, Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Doppler, strike; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Fuchs; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karl, Karlsböck, Kassinger, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lausch, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Neubauer Werner, Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Pock, Podgorschek, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schelenbacher, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmidenschlager, Schönegger, Schrangl, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12257	We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a positive sign. – This is also the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 78 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I accept Amendment 86/A(E) to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Health Committee to take note of its report 79 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I accept Amendment No 104/A(E) to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Health Committee to take note of its report 80 of the supplements. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 81 of the supplements. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[14:02:52]] 10. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 262/A(E) by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, colleagues, on ‘Marketing of meat by AT stamp’ (86 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12379	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12406	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are now discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, who have been rejected in the Committee on Health. This concerns the labelling of foodstuffs, in particular meat, with the AT stamp attached to meat in slaughterhouses. To make it understandable: Meat from animals landed and slaughtered in Austria on a slaughterhouse will receive an AT stamp after the veterinary inspection. This does not mean that the meat comes from Austria, but only means that it is enjoyable in Austria. This request refers to the fact that only meat is fed by animals with the AT stamp, which were actually born, raised in Austria, i.e. measured, and slaughtered. You would then have to find another stamp for meat that we import from abroad. However, the core of the whole matter, which is also massively involved here, has been working on us for several years, and that is the food label in general. Mr. Federal Minister, for at least five years, we have been discussing our own trademark, quality or quality seal law for food in Austria. When we take the brochure of the Chamber of Workers here, we see that it clearly lists more than a hundred pages of marks and marks, but no consumer can recognize himself there! [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] You all know the brands “Yes! Of course", “natural pure”, “natural for us”, the AMA seal – a hundred pages, a hundred different quality marks for consumers, and no one knows each other! We liberals have long called for the creation of a uniform and easy-to-understand quality law for consumers. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We have made the effort to investigate where the Austrian meat, which is not produced here but imported here, actually comes from as an agricultural speaker. In the Green Report, which refers to agriculture, we do not get any information about it, but only the values in euro, how much is imported. Data from Statistics Austria then show how Austria imports pigmeat. I mention a few examples: We did in 2007 – Minister Stöger, and you know that! – imported pigmeat from Seychelles, we imported pork from Israel, we import from Bangladesh, Korea, Mauritius and Japan – despite Fukushima we import pork from Japan! Last year we imported pigmeat from Dominica, India, Canada, Lebanon, Uganda, Vietnam and China. I don't even have a problem with us bringing pigmeat to Austria from these exotic countries, but I wonder if anyone of you can answer me the question where to find this pig meat in the supermarket. Although this meat is imported into Austria – from Neighbouring countries, but also from these exotic countries, do not stand on any product from this meat: This meat comes from Seychelles. These are major shortcomings, this is the consumer deception that has been affecting us for years. It would be best for us if the products were to be clearly on top of them: This pig meat is from Poland, is from Ukraine, is from Dominica, is from Canada or what do I know from where. It doesn't matter where, only the consumer needs to see it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Thus, quantities of tons of pig meat are imported into Austria, and they usually land in the supermarket with the beautiful red-and-white-red flag – because that is not forbidden – mostly with a alpine background, with a beef or in the case with a pig that lives happily. This is absolute consumer deception. Here we are really required, and I am seeking to finally reach agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, that we should establish a single label for products that can be understood by consumers. We want this in the interests of consumers. We don't want a foresight. The consumer should be free to decide, because I do not believe that pigmeat from Poland, Germany, Belgium or somewhere else is worse than Austrian pigmeat, but the consumer must be able to see where the meat comes from. Then give the Austrian farmers an opportunity to produce their products here under the strictest environmental and animal protection standards and to provide good quality and to prevent the consumer from celebrating pork from other, possibly, as listed here, exotic countries. This is the case at present. That is why we support this proposal, which goes in a direction with the health mark, but rather we demand a quality mark regime which deserves this name and which protects consumers and local farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12486	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12507	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes to all proposals that improve food safety, transparency and hygiene standards for consumers. These are to be welcomed in principle. However, what is required in this proposal for the labelling of meat by means of AT stamps is no improvement, and it also mixes questions of the hygiene labelling of foodstuffs with the designation of origin for consumers. The health mark or identification mark described in this application is the official designation for an EU uniform hygiene symbol. Companies that are allowed to use this health mark must comply with the highest international hygiene standards. This is also very, very strictly controlled. However, this marking is not primarily intended for the end-users, but for the supervisory authorities and the trading partners. The ability to enjoy: It is therefore not consumer information, but food monitoring. For example, from the label, conclusions on the production plant are possible, but not on the origin of the raw materials. It serves to ensure food safety by ensuring traceability. This hygienic marking is essential in Austria, but it is essential to separate it from the designation of origin, which was meant in this application. The improved origin identification of meat was regulated in the comprehensive EU Consumer Information Regulation. From an Austrian point of view, we can be quite proud of this, which was also a call from our Minister for Health Alois Stöger and the Austrian Federal Government, with which we were able to enforce ourselves throughout Europe. In future, pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultry must also be marked in addition to the existing labelling obligation on the origin of beef. This means, for example, in the future – and so it should be – that domestic animals must have been born, fattened and slaughtered if Austrian beef is on it. I say again: Indeed, everything that improves food safety, transparency and hygiene standards for consumers. Unfortunately, Mr Steinbichler's request does not meet these criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12555	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12577	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kucher rightly pointed out the EU Consumer Information Regulation. But, Mr Kucher, this regulation will apply from December 2014, and it applies only to fresh meat, but not to processed products. And that's the problem! Where is import goods going in Austria? She goes into the sausage, she goes in where you can't see where the flesh comes from, and then the red-white-red flag comes on it. That's the trick, and it's the end of it. It cannot be, Mr Federal Minister, that we import every year 400 000 live pigs for slaughter, slaughtered and processed here and then marketed as an Austrian quality product. That's what it looks like, and that's just consumer deception! In this respect, Mr Steinbichler's proposal is to be examined because of the fact that the award of origin is one of the central issues of origin. The citizens want to know where the schnitzel comes from and where the raw materials of the sausage come from. That's the challenge. Whether the measure is sufficient with the stamp or if it needs other or accompanying measures and how to implement them, we can discuss it. Today it's like this: If a hostess goes to a slaughterhouse and buys half a pig there, which is then broken down and processed in the farm, he has a pig on which there is a health mark on it, namely the AT stamp. Mr Eßl, in Salzburg in the tourist companies or in Tyrol, the pigs come not from Austria, but from Germany or from Holland. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Not all!]] – Not all, says the colleague, but pig production in Tyrol, Mrs. Worm, is really marginal. You know that as well as I do. Handl-Speck is a classic. Handl is one of the great processors in Tyrol, who works precisely with the label fault, because he imports pigs that come from elsewhere, and then puts the bacon on the market as a Tyrolean quality product. This is misleading, and therefore, Mr Federal Minister, we need a federal uniform seal law. That's it. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Where remains Your impulse for that? The Federal Government – the last, at least – had already recorded this in the government programme, and nothing has become out of it. To this day, we are waiting for your proposal. It can't be. There is also a five-party proposal, even from the last legislative period, in which we have said quite clearly: We want this. We want a designation of origin. We want to support that also in the gastronomy must be detectable where the meat, the milk, the eggs come from. – You didn’t do anything, I have to say unfortunately. That's a fact. That is why we should not simply put off opposition applications, but we should take them seriously and consider what opportunities we have in Austria. That's to be discussed. You will also speak, I assume. Let us try to implement those measures that we can implement! The other is that we are committed to further development at EU level, and that means that there must also be at EU level a designation of origin for processed products in which meat is inside. Mr Jannach has already mentioned this. It's necessary. I have also made the following proposal – it is no secret either –: Where this is not recognizable, the marking must be: It consists of meat of unknown origin. – Then the consumer, that is industrial meat, was traded across Europe, across the world. Let's remember the horse meat scandal: There were suddenly also Argentine horses in any processing product. The same thing is known to us. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, give yourself a back! Take your role here in the house seriously! [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Government parties” must say! – Government parties!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: What are you doing?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That we are not the government, but the government parties! And the government is not right...!]] Let us start an initiative in Parliament to solve this problem and do not vote in favour of opposition proposals on a flat-rate basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12662	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12683	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen who are here today as guests! We are discussing a very important issue that concerns consumers in this country. This is a question that consumers expect from us clarity and reliability. But if I really focus on this request now, if I follow the debate, then I have to find that unfortunately once again uncertainty is startled. This is not necessary here because things are mixed. This application refers to the AT stamp. This is the award that is available here. What does that mean? – Animals, as mentioned, are imported into Austria as well. They are slaughtered here, and then the veterinary authority says: This animal, this meat is healthy! and confirms it with its stamp. And that's what "AT" says, because we've checked it ourselves in Austria, and that's a guarantee. I am very proud that we are doing this ourselves, and I am convinced that our veterinary authority is very reliable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Zanger.]] In this debate, however, it was confused with a certificate or a seal of quality or a seal of quality. There are many quality seals. Some have been mentioned who have established domestic supermarket chains that have produced producers who have set up marketing initiatives, but they have all different values, basics and so on. If the consumer wants to rely that the animal from which a meat was made was born in Austria, grew up in Austria, slaughtered and processed in Austria, then there is an official seal of quality, namely the AMA seal. We now know that thanks to God, over 90 percent of consumers are informed about this AMA seal, the red-white-red seal of quality, and can also rely on this seal of quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is nothing but a trademark!]] Now I come back to the request that we have today, and I do not mix. The application states that AT should not be used if meat is declared to be edible in Austria. Now I'm asking the reverse question: Should we not check meat that is imported, animals that are imported, in Austria? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Sure we should, but mark it! Mr Höfinger, don't be stupid!]] If we check her out, what do we write about it? Let's just write on it: Are you all right? This raises more questions than it answers. Then the question would rightly be: What does that mean? Are you all right? Who controls when? That is why: We in Austria, AT, with this and that number, have controlled this meat. If you've left the question unanswered so far, what we're writing about – no one has answered that yet – then I'd ask you to explain it quite simply. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] We rely on the Austrian veterinary authorities to ensure that this meat is healthy and in order. Whoever wants Austrian goods, who wants Austrian quality, I invite him to return to the red and white-red AMA seal: 100 percent of Austria's population.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12760	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12782	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Especially dear spectators on the gallery and on the televisions! [[The speaker presents a panel on the speaker's desk, on which a picture of a slaughtered pig can be seen.]] The current discussion has actually proved quite clearly the misinformation available to colleagues. Mr Höglinger! I am very grateful that you have strengthened this right now, because exactly the AMA seal is proof that there is fraud. Where Austria insists, Austria must be inside. I don't need an additional seal. Or have you ever bought a VW golf that had a quality seal for making it a real VW golf? That proves the fraud. That's wonderful. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You can ask in your home country: Mr Reiser, the president of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, called for an EU designation of origin. Today is a beautiful day: First, we discussed the WTO agreement and control there, and we do not even do it in our own country. This call comes from the President Reiser, who lives 30 km next to a slaughterhouse and sees how it goes there. Thankfully, Mr Berlakovich has now come back. [[the speaker stresses the name on the third syllable]] He said today that we import raw materials, refine them here and export quality. We bring Polish and Dutch pigs to Austria and then we sausage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich.]] - Listen, otherwise you don't know it again next time! [[Call the ÖVP:Say the names correctly!]] That's your problem, the problem of a Burgenian ex-minister. He can't listen, the colleagues have always said that. Your problem is that you can't listen. This is where we import Polish pigs and export Austrian quality sausages. This is a very clean trade relationship. It's not fraud, it's business. That's the problem. At the same slaughterhouse I mentioned earlier, 60 percent of foreign pigs become almost Austrians. Now let me just say what it's all about: We and also the vets know which slaughterhouse kills which pigs. Why does the slaughterhouse in the Innviertel not have a second health mark, where of course the Austrian registration number like the AT stamp is on it, but please not AT because it has been viewed in Austria, but CZ or NL for the country of origin? – Then we would have prevented the basis for fraud. That's essential. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I cordially invite the representatives of consumers, who must be a heart concern, to join in. Minister! I also ask you to do so, because your ministry is called the Ministry of Consumer Protection and Health. That is exactly the essential point. This abuse has to be reversed, and this is the first measure towards a credible designation of origin. It's not bureaucracy, it's not an extra effort. The Austrian veterinarian notes that the meat is healthy and enjoyable, but there the country is no longer changed. Mr President, this is also true of the imported pig carcasses. Why do the poor pigs have to get an Austrian stamp just because they looked at the Austrian vet? Explain this to me, please. If there isn't speculation or business making behind it, then I'm really wrong. This must be a very fruitful company, otherwise it would not be possible to prevent the changes for ten years. In the interests of consumers and consumers, I would ask that we support our proposal. I am always willing to provide more detailed information. This is precisely environmental policy, which is climate policy, which is primarily health policy. Honest politics begins with healthy regional food, which is not transported cross and across the world, until the right seal of quality is on it. I'm asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12847	The next item is Mr Jannach's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12869	Mr President. Minister! After Mr Höfinger's speech, I had to speak again. Mr Höfinger, this sign is about the AMA seal, also for every consumer. [[The speaker holds a brochure with the AMA seal.]] First of all, I wanted to report on an actual correction. The colleague said: 100 percent from Austria – born, slaughtered, processed and sold. – Yes, that applies to fresh meat, which is true when you buy schnitzel. This is not true when you buy sausage, this does not apply to processed products. I also brought the guidelines for the AMA seal to Mr Höfinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] - Let me talk! For processed products: Raw materials from Austria. That's right. For other raw materials – as always argued with spices – a tolerance range of one third applies in processed products. A third can be different provenance, that can come from somewhere else, and you can still put up the AMA mark. They always said: Yes, these are the spices we don't have in Austria. Someone should show me a product that should contain up to a third of spices! [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable!]] The proportion of spices is in the promille range. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Hoefinger, that's not a bad quality mark, I'll give you the right. If you want to do this, please delete this point that a third foreign product can be inside the AMA seal product. I would like to point out one more point in the AMA seal: That's this red-white-red sign that many of us know. These quality marks and marks are controlled. Who controls the AMA seal? – That controls the AMA itself. [[Abg. New builder: Unmistakable! Incredible!]] This is also a point we need to discuss. No one who forgives the label itself is interested in the fact that the controls are such that they also reveal when something happens. It can't be that nothing happens. Many colleagues have already mentioned that pigmeat disappears in the sausage in Austria, as it is said. Nobody can prove where this pig meat is today. We don't have a problem with pork from Poland, but we just would like that on the product: This is pork from Poland, that's pork from Seychelles, that's pork from Dominica, from Canada, from New Zealand, from what I know from where. This has to be on it, and that's relatively simple. Mr Hoefinger, even if this is not recognizable, there is, as one colleague has already said, an AMA seal. That's the grey mark of goodness. There can be everything inside under the cover of the AMA mark. We want this regulation. It is simple and easy to understand for the consumer. The consumer can then decide freely. This does not hinder the market, because the consumer sees: This comes from Poland, from the Czech Republic, from what do I know from where, or from just Austria. That would be the way we want it to be. Only once again to the quantity: Only 500 000 pigs are imported alive into Austria. This must also be said to consumers: 500,000 live pigs, thousands of tonnes of processed meat. It's really time to finally put this – I would say consumer fraud – in front of the bar. Products coming from Austria should be marked red-and-white-red. Others should be somehow marked, but please do not turn on the consumer under the cover of Austrian quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12939	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12971	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just as I mentioned earlier: It's insecured. We don't need that. [[Abg. New builder: This is reality, not uncertainty!]] I would like to answer the questions you have raised. First of all, on the question of: Who controls the AMA? - Everyone should know that. The AMA is being reviewed nationally, internationally and at European level by, I do not know exactly now, 11 or 13 control points. Secondly, the red-white-red AMA seal. The AMA controls very strictly, and it always occurs that companies are deprived of this AMA seal because something does not fit. This is executed, and this is extremely important for the consumer. You're acting like the AMA's checking. That's not the case. It is proven that these parameters are very strict and also implemented. Now I am answering the question with the third that you have raised again, knowing that we are actually running this debate today from the point of view of profitability. We are already miles away from this core theme, because you mix everything up. But I can give you the answer to this question: This AMA seal exists not only on sausages, but also on dairy products. We are very proud that we can produce high-quality dairy products in Austria, from raw milk to processed cheese products, yogurts and so on. That is the question. We are proud that 100 percent of Austrian milk is inside a yogurt, but very many people in this country, very many consumers, also enjoy yogurt with bananas, pineapples, Maracuja or the like. We do not produce these fruits in Salzburg, not in Austria. The AMA seal provides for the use of 100 percent milk from Austria for this yogurt, but also exotic fruit products.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13010	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13038	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Höglinger, it is precisely this uncertainty that is currently justified that we want to prevent. [[Call the ÖVP: He's called Höfinger!]] You just have to look at reality. [[Abg. Fekter: Insurance is never entitled!]] – Mrs. Colleague, you'd rather report to the hypo, not to the food, because you're preventing your butcher from coming home. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schittenhelm and Mr Tamandel.]] I did not want to put this into the discussion, but the former Mrs Finanzministere prevents the local Metzger from slaughtering at home. He is forced to buy imported products. But it doesn't matter. I didn't mean to say that, but you challenged it. [[Abg. Fekter: You must also recognize the highest court decision!]] The following story, please to the consumers: Nervousness in the right sector shows what's going on. The reaction confirms everything. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I do not want the following – and I have already said this today –: For 14 days we have Austrian fish. In each inn the poster hangs: Wild from local territories. Yes, there are New Zealand deer shot from the helicopter. Let's take a look at reality and what's really going on! There's security in there once. We really need to get on a level with consumers, with our most important partners, and give them a hand and say: We are ready to produce quality. We're ready to mark this properly. We want to go this way with you for a happy future on both sides. It doesn't make sense for us to tell fairy tales for ten years now and say: It's the healing world. Why do all the farmers stop? – Mr. Höglinger, why do the practitioners go as AMA controllers and are not willing to carry on agriculture at home? [[Calls:Höfinger]] By the deeds you can measure them. Let's go an honest path! Let us enter into a partnership with consumers! We're ready to do that. We give our professional support. We give safety and not uncertainty. That's the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13138	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13159	Mr President. High house! In this debate, you will see the importance of strengthening and expanding food safety. The health mark means that in each slaughterhouse in Austria, a veterinarian approved in Austria or a veterinarian authorised in Austria determines the suitability for health. I'm very sorry. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to me that we do so in Austria, and that is not to be shaken. The second thing I've been working for is that we can make the traceability of food. We have achieved this at European level when it comes to unprocessed food and meat. That's already been done. I am fighting to see that there is also such traceability for processed foods. That's important to me. We haven't done that yet. That's where we're going to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13196	No one is reporting on this. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 86 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[14:34:11]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2012/9 (III-11/76, D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13245	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Zanger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13272	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! ‘Tell me: Do you want to plant me there somehow now?” – Don’t worry, that’s not the introduction to my speech, but that’s a quote that is puzzling around the Internet right now. This is a quote from the ÖVP Minister for Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner, who was interviewed by private television on the verge of any event. That was his answer to the question of how many petitions would still be needed until a hypo-examination committee would finally be set up. – “Tell me: Do you want to plant me there now?” – ATV, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Which private television station?]] You can see this on YouTube: ATV and servus TV. - But that's good. [[New call of the abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] This is the way to deal with citizens' concerns. They feel legitimate citizens' interests as a plantation. That's what's going on. In addition, he obviously no longer knows himself with petitions, although he has been sitting in Parliament for a long time. He says: There you can sign three times, you can sign five times, and no one checks that. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Incorrect!]] So this is also a false statement in terms of content. But as I said, it's sad how to deal with people's concerns. This is how it continues in Parliament's committees. In concrete terms, it is the Committee on the Court of Auditors, where we must note that the parliamentary groups of the Government simply do not exercise the control function. But that is exactly the task I would like to remind you of. You do not sit here as the government's handiwork, but in your function as the government's control body. In this function, you have the responsibility to the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The debate on the objections to the agenda has already been discussed today, as is generally the case with the issues that the Court of Auditors is discussing. We have often mentioned it here. It was once again such a case where we wanted to discuss a very comprehensive, very precise and very critical report very thoroughly in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. After we have waited two or three years for it, it has finally come to an appointment. Well, the Minister once agreed that he was coming, and he was there too. But Mr Spindelegger was not really concerned with matter, because he was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time. How should he actually take the whole knowledge that one would have asked a minister there? – No, that was such a semi-trailer game, but without making any debt allotment to the current Minister of Finance. There were also very high-ranking persons. Mr. Liebscher was there. But people we would have liked to have had were then kept away from us again. In the course of the Committee's deliberations, we have insisted that it would be necessary to load these people as well. In concrete terms, we would have liked the FMA, Mr Pribil. We would have liked to have had the Minister of State, Mr Pröll, and his State Secretary, who were also involved in the negotiations in the emergency state. We would have liked one or the other too. But what happens in such cases? . The government groups then stand up, turn the committee off or wave through the report that would have given rise to very critical treatment. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for this very exciting and constructive report. Unfortunately, there is no way to treat him in the way it would be justified. What happens to the hypo now? - We've heard it before. A Commission is being set up, a Commission which is itself a very toothless instrument. The most honorable and honorable woman Dr. Griss is already working with that purpose, saying: Well, in fact, I don't have any legal handling. That means if I don't spend all that I imagine, I have to step back. – I just hope she doesn’t have to make her announcement faster than she wants. Summa summarum is always about covering, hiding. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP in this case! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: There is no one there!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Are we nobody?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karl.]] I just want to tell you one thing: This constant coverage of you and the prevention of truly profound information will result in you receiving such an answer from the population at the next elections: We won't let you plant any more! – I wish you all the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13367	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13390	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Zanger has said about the content as much as he has in the Committee and as always. The report itself, one has the feeling, has not read it in detail. I just have to say that, because there has been no single sentence about what this bank package is all about, which we have discussed. It may be true that in the past legislative period there have been a few attempts and the report has not been able to come. I am pleased that he is now present at one of the first meetings of the Court of Auditors and that there was agreement on information. They've been good and, as I mean, they've also given detailed information, and they've done it properly. In addition, it was a report of the Court of Auditors which we jointly requested, as we all agreed on the 2008 bank package. The report is now before us and, of course, it deals with more than just hypo in the Committee, which has lasted more than five hours. In addition to the investment measures we have set in order not to break down the economy at this time of the financial crisis, it has been a question of securing with the banking package the financial sector that threatened to collapse. This step was decided unanimously at the time, for good reason, and it has now been reviewed. Many shortcomings have been identified, especially in the implementation, which is true whether this was the case with the FIMBAG or with the Ministry of Finance. This is both correct and good, and this should also be evaluated for future cases. We are all convinced or hope that this can no longer happen, because we have already taken some legal step. However, it can still happen, and there may be a need to take similar measures again, and that is why we should actually evaluate what the Court of Auditors has found out and critically noted. By the way, both FIMBAG and the Ministry of Finance have clearly stated that they have fully implemented the measures already implemented by 17 recommendations of the Court of Auditors, as far as this was still feasible and not only in the past. [[Abg. Kogler goes to his seat.]] . As I am currently seeing that Mr Kogler is coming, I would like to briefly address another aspect of this committee debate. On the night of 13th to 14th, Mr Kogler gave the Court of Auditors an acribable opinion. September 2009, which was the night of emergency nationalization, employed and surveyed the persons present from FIMBAG, the Ministry of Finance and Financial Procuratorship to the detail. – Who sat in which room, who telephoned with whom, what perceptions do you have here and there? [[Abg. Kogler: They answered that – I didn't ask them that!]] Yes, you have tried to do something here, and I say, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kogler knows very well that those responsible could not act differently. The Court of Auditors is currently examining in detail the procedures for emergency nationalization, and I think that is a good thing. I hope he also answers the questions about insolvency: What would the insolvency mean for the Federal Republic of Carinthia, but also for the Austrian financial and economic area? Would the Court of Auditors have had a negative impact on the Austrian banks and on the credit quality of the Republic of Austria without any rescue action? [[Abg. Kogler: This was not in the test order at all!]] I would ask the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors that he and his team should also examine this issue so that we can also have a neutral assessment in the field of whether there would actually be a risk to the Federal State of Carinthia, whether there would actually be a risk to the credit quality of the Republic of Austria. I would also like a reply from the Court of Auditors in terms of content. With one, Mr. Kogler, Mr. Rauscher, in his "standard" comment of 26. No doubt right this year – I quote –: “Maybe Josef Pröll has negotiated badly, perhaps in the back of his mind he wanted to save Raiffeisen a few dozen millions, perhaps the heads of the ECB and the National Bank were filled with false panic – but if Kogler had really risked everything in place of Pröll at that time? Is it possible to risk it?’ Ladies and gentlemen! It may have been a poker game; only at stake was there no more and no less than the question of whether we want to save a federal country or get into the abyss, whether we are trying to stretch a rescue shield if you want to guarantee the credit quality of Austria. For one thing is certain, and we must not forget that in all the discussions required: The citizens of Austria were not the fault of the citizens of Austria, nor were the citizens of Carinthia, but they were solely the arsons of this huge fire – and that was the then head of state of Carinthia, Jörg Haider, with his FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Deputies Neubauer and Darmann: And the SPÖ!]] We should, yes – I say so – critically – stop your calls! [[Abg. Neubauer: SPÖ and ÖVP were just as involved!]] You know the fault is with you! You've put the whole thing in and you should finally be quiet! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] – That’s unbearable what you’re doing! It's so unbearable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You've put that in and you've been yelling up here again and again! Stop it! Why don't you go inside and tell me, yes, that's what we've done! At last distance yourself from these people! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Make an investigation committee! It'll all come to light!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That's just bad what you're doing! You don't need that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Who are you anyway that you allow yourself to talk to us like this?- Oh, my God!]] We should be critical, and I mean, even self-critically, that I say self-critically, to question the rescue of fire brigade and rescue, because we are not sure that financial disasters can repeat themselves like this or in a modified form. We must, and this is a central point for me, investigate and question the arsons that were the cause of this fire, but also why various fire detectors have failed partially or completely, from the National Bank to the Court of Auditors to the FMA. Ladies and gentlemen! The Haider and Haider-FPÖ system must never repeat itself or repeat itself. This must be a key statement that we will carry in us in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:You are responsible!]] Finally, let me say a sentence on the common objective. We should do everything we can to keep the damage away from taxpayers as far as possible. I believe that insolvency would have been devastating for the people of Carinthia, but also for the economic location of Austria, and I am equally convinced that the path taken by the government about the exclusion of the Bad Bank parts in the sense of the objective of solving the problem as tax-free as possible is the only right one. There too, Mr Kogler, I am surprised at your zigzag course. You were not even a year ago, Mr Kogler, who insisted on setting up a bathroom bank for the mortgage. I quote the June 2013 APA: One must, Kogler says, save what is to be saved at the hypo. According to bank institutions and experts, a bad bank in which the bad assets of the non-state-based Carinthia Bank could be reduced as tax-saving as much as possible was more than € 2 billion in real savings. - Quote. That's exactly the goal. [[Abg. Kogler: It's too late for that now!]] That is why, Mr Kogler, you should be slowly aware of what you want. [[Abg. Kogler: You just have no idea!]] Either the radical opposition politician, who every zigzag course, if he only uses it, is right, or you are interested in an objective solution, then you have to do what you called for a year ago.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13599	A real correction by Mr Darmann. - Please. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please. [[Abg. Darmann's trying to talk from his seat.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13646	Mr President. High house! Mr Elmar Mayer here claimed from the speaker's desk that the head of state Jörg Haider and his party colleagues were solely responsible for the hypo disaster due to the acceptance of liability for the mortgage bank. I am correcting this untruth in so far as the head of state Jörg Haider with freedom of government had at no time had a majority in the Carinthian Landtag and, therefore, in every takeover of state liability for the hypo bank, both SPÖ on the one hand and the ÖVP on the other as well as the Greens were involved. So Elmar Mayerhier said the untruth.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13690	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13711	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The truth seems to have many pages, or everything has three sides: yours, mine and the right one. But what Mr. Elmar Mayer has given of himself as his truth is already a strong piece. I would like him and his group to be so energetic when it comes to educational work on this important subject, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to focus briefly on the history of this Court of Auditors report, which has been in the Committee for a number of years. We have already tried two years ago to agree on a cargo list of the persons in charge. We felt that it was essential that the competent minister Pröll also come to the committee and there informed the honourable Member about what was going on that night of the emergency nationalization from 13th to 14th. ==References== With this project in mind, we have now only agreed on the reservation of this load list so that the Committee can be consulted on 20 June. At least it could take place in March, otherwise it would have been further towed. Under the premise, we have also agreed to inform people in order to also leave us open that we can invite other people, including the Minister mentioned, Pröll, because he is a central figure, as well as his then State Secretary, who was also there during the night of the emergency. Mr Mayer has already responded to the Court of Auditors in a way that is somewhat peculiar – I call it that way – by publishing a press release during the Committee, in which he is dealing with the Court of Auditors' report, which is quite critical, and this will be seen by everyone who has read the report and dealt with it; Mr President, Moser has explained the report – the report is great, it is not a problem, the bank package and the mortgage, everything is perfect. [[Abg. Kogler: Have you had the wrong report presented again?]] Then and then, when we continued to discuss, he accused us, the members of the opposition, of having to take action because we did not want to finish the report, but, as agreed with the representatives of the government parties before, we wanted to load more information. So where this is supposed to be a wear and tear, Mr. Mayer, perhaps you can explain this again as energetically as you explained the truth of the hypo-responsibility earlier. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Mayer: You weren't there at all! So there was nothing more to talk about with you!]] The speaker's desk is available to everyone, and you can register for a second word message again. That's not a problem. Whoever shouts out loud, he buys, and with you this should be very special. It is clear, and this has also proved the course of the Committee meeting that many issues have remained open. The information subjects have not been able to answer them enough. I am also grateful at this point for the fact that the current Finance Minister Spindelegger has agreed to come to the Committee. The former Minister of Finance, Pröll, should perhaps take an example from his party colleague. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It seems that in the SPÖ it is now at all modern or going on and it is possible to eliminate parliamentarianism and not to strengthen how I can lead you in the near future. The former President of the First National Council and today's President Heinz Fischer was always a advocate of parliamentarianism, that parliamentarianism should be strengthened et cetera. Now Mr Fischer is quoted in the “Standard” this week in a comment entitled “Falscher Freibrief”, and it is written that he does not vote in favour of an investigation committee. It says: Heinz Fischer, however, gives the freedom to issue the legislative letter to the executive and judicial authorities, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. If this is your answer or if your future work is going to run in this direction, I see black for parliamentarianism, because we have the right to information here, and we should take advantage of all possibilities. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Since this report contains very serious material, since we have not yet received all the information we wanted, I am submitting the referral request for this Court of Auditors report to the Court of Auditors' Committee because it is necessary to monitor and inform the Court of Auditors and this has only happened to a small fraction in the last committee. You now have the opportunity to become smarter and agree to this request for referral back to the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13797	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13818	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We wanted to discuss this report twice during the last legislative period. Through a blockade of the load list it was not possible to discuss it. In the meantime, there was an election and a constitution of this Parliament, and that is why we are not discussing this report until 2014 and it will be discussed as soon as possible. In 2008 a bank package was chained in Austria. At the time, it was about stabilising the situation in the banking and economic sectors. The aim was to create a national legal basis for action by the Federal Government. First: Ensuring the stability of the financial market in Austria; second: Avoiding a significant disturbance in economic life in Austria; thirdly: Ensuring the overall economic balance; and fourthly: Protection of the Austrian economy. So that was a clear task on the part of the legislator. In September 2009, the Court of Auditors took the decision on this audit, and the Court of Auditors examined from October to December 2010 the implementation of the Financial Market Stabilisation Act (FMStG) and the Interbank Strengthening Act (IBSG). In total, and this has already been stressed by my previous speakers, this Court of Auditors report is quite a complex one. There were six institutions involved, institutions, and there would have been some improvement here, especially in terms of the process and the organization, that it would have been more efficient and faster and perhaps more coordinated. The criticism points: It was a question of pooling the execution agents to make use of the core competences, dividend security in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank's opinions, inadequate compliance control. The Federation should have been able to co-participate with the supported institutions. Furthermore, it was about compliance with contract law, due audit and consultation rights – here the Court of Auditors has identified shortcomings in the FIMBAG – and about compliance with the contract stencil regulation in the case of board fees. In all, however, the Court of Auditors presents a very positive testimony to this bank package. The objectives were achieved. It has succeeded in increasing the own resources and capital ratios of the banks that are relevant to the system in Austria. The situation of credit institutions in the global banking and debt crisis could be stabilised in a sustainable way. The cooperation between the Federal Ministry and the European Commission, which was initiated and integrated into this package, was exemplary, and resources were also used properly and comprehensively. This package of banks is of course being put in a bad light under the widely known topic. But there were a lot of things that went well. It has succeeded in building confidence in the financial system as well as protecting the interests of savers, savers, borrowers and investors. This bank package was the right answer to the problems of the time at the time, 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13867	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 11 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:26]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on “structural reform of countries – urgent measures for financial control and consolidation to protect taxpayers from further budgetary disasters” (1120/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13897	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 1120/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14488	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Loacker is the first questioner to justify the request, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14510	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Dear Secretary of State! High house! Structural reform of countries – we demand urgent financial control and consolidation measures to protect taxpayers from further budgetary disasters. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In the meantime, we all know that we have often discussed it here: The hypo will have cost us at least €10 billion until its final execution. This is an amount that is so high that you can no longer properly classify it and in addition to that many other things, which are also important to us, are extremely relativizing. 10 billion €, we cannot spend on science and research, on measures in the pension system, on environmental protection, infrastructure, labour market, childcare. This has happened because wrong decisions have been made here. Whether on purpose or not, let us now put this question there. In any case, they were wrong decisions. While the Federal Government and its political groups here in Parliament are firmly opposed to the fact that the past is being worked out and that the facts are really going on, we are satisfied with the establishment of an extra-parliamentary committee of inquiry, which I wish to see a lot of success at this point. In the meantime, the extent of the removal is much greater than the lack of the committee of inquiry. The government is therefore refusing to do educational work. In the meantime, 90 000 citizens have signed the petition of the opposition parties. [[Abg. Kogler: 96,000!]] - 96,000! Thank you, Mr Kogler. The number is growing at such a pace! We thank the government fractions for the advertising you have made for trying to turn the petition off. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] But what is not drawn is consequences from the Causa Hypo, that you really ask: How could this happen and what do we have to do so that it can't get that far? This should have absolute priority at this point. If the government parties do not want to look back and want to look closely, they should at least look forward and ask: What do we have to do to prevent that from happening? There have been concepts of experts for years, there are studies by private and public bodies that consider the same measures to be useful and necessary. There you are, Minister of Finance, in charge. I am speaking here not only of financial control but also of reforms that would enable us to guarantee budgetary consolidation away from new tax packages. Now we are talking again about the next tax packages that come to the population. Since 2000, the debt of the Republic has almost doubled to approximately €254 billion, and the liabilities and debts hidden in the local authorities have not even been taken into account. It has not yet been taken into account what has been outsourced and where there is minority participation for debt in which the public hand is involved. I do not understand how, in view of the horrendous figures that exist, knowing that there are still much higher hidden amounts, one does not immediately introduce reforms that prevent blatant mismanagement in local authorities from creating once again such disasters as have just arisen in Carinthia. The Court of Auditors has more often criticised this, and President Moser himself recently said in an interview with the “Press” – I quote literally – that “the accounts of the countries and communities are not complete and do not reflect the true picture of the financial situation of the local authorities”. If that's not a call to action! They do not give the true picture of what the facts are! Now, Minister of Finance, you have put in place a country package based on uniform accounting, on a ban on speculation and a bank insolvency right. This is a step in the right direction when you implement it, but it will stay too little if you leave it. We support this package, but we see it critically within the scope of the reforms. What Austria needs and what Austria and the Federal Government owe tax payers are comprehensive structural reforms and not single individual measures. We are concerned, as has been said, with concepts that are already known, whose meaning has already been demonstrated and whose implementation is absolutely overdue. The first step concerns financial control: What about the debt and the liabilities of the federal states? That's questionable. One wants to think that such essential key figures would be open and comparable – they are not, that's the tragedy. This is primarily due to the still unimplemented uniform accounting. A year ago, when we discussed the topic of Salzburg, the then president of the national conference Markus Wallner is asked: Vorarlberg is an example, because you have the double accounting, would you be in favour of other federal states introducing it? And he said in ZiB 2: It's too fast for me now. – I don’t know what else you need in the ÖVP, except what we have experienced in Salzburg and in Carinthia. The rules on the accounting of the countries and municipalities are not sufficient to allow us to calculate comparable figures. We find ourselves in this absurd situation: We know money's missing, but we don't know how much. We do not know how the individual countries stand and how they perform in comparison with each other. That would be about as if one did not know at the SPAR company how the individual regional directors perform, because one cannot compare them because each one represents his figures differently. Minister! You would have the opportunity to adopt such a regulation without delay in agreement with the Court of Auditors, without you having to engage in previous discussions with countries and communities. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Because what would they say? – They will resist looking at them in the cards, they will find a hundred reasons why this is not happening now, why it is not possible to do so, not go so fast and what everything else belongs to. In the present situation, the law of the European Union is also violated, namely, Directive 2011/85/EU, the Fiscal Framework Directive. And now I ask you, Minister of Finance: What is more difficult, the “Holy Bloody Agreement” which is now 40 years old, in which a few honourable rulers have been joined together, or not the European law to which we have committed ourselves? We are optimistic and believe that you, Mr Minister, will address the problem, but the abuses are far beyond what you have announced. There is a lack of insolvency rights for local authorities that clarify the criteria of such insolvency and the consequences. And in view of the Causa Hypo, we also expect the Federal Government to recognise and act accordingly on the urgency of such a regulation. Furthermore, the test competences of the control bodies are extended rapidly. The Court of Auditors has been trying for years to ensure that it is irresponsible to keep communities below 10,000 inhabitants out of the audit. The same applies to companies in which the federal government has a participation of less than 50 percent. We would like to see this limit reduced to 25 percent, so that companies with a share share of capital, basic or equity can also be examined. If we go further into matter, we come – as I am quite pessimistic, I hardly think there is anything going on – to the Financial Balance Act. The government programme says that we want to renegotiate this. This was already relatively ambitious in the last government programme. We are skeptical and hardly believe that the reforms are being implemented as regards the interconnectedness of the financial flows. The tasks and expenditure of the federal states in particular fall apart. One spends money that another collects. The financing responsibility is not given. This condition is unsustainable and makes federalism a one-way road: The Federal Government considers that taxes are lifted to an unbearable extent, and the countries spend the money with both hands without paying attention to the usefulness. Then there are such flowers as about a year ago when the heads of state Wallner and Pühringer were asked for in an interview on housing promotion and their purpose commitment. The two said that they would actually have a bit more money for the purpose of promoting housing, but then the federal government would have to look out a little more money in the financial balance. I find such a thing to say royal. Now there is a weakening of housing contributions to workers and employers, and therefore money comes, and if you ask the national leaders: Do you give this out for purpose, they say: We have actually spent the money for something else, we need more! – That’s how an employee says to the boss: Chef, I was on vacation and was out some evenings, the money is outside, for my apartment I now need a salary increase! [[Abg. Heinzl: Isn't that stupid!]] How can it even be that we have been talking about modernizing Austrian federalism for years – in fact, for decades – without any major reform? Could it be that individuals in the government parties – I am speaking to the national leaders in particular – have more weight than the common good? You are apologizing, Minister of Finance, if this suspicion comes to light. We are critical when you repeatedly emphasize that you want to have intense discussions with the countries and communities. The question is: What are we talking about? They won't want what you want. If you ask for a long time, you'll be left far away! Let us put this discourse aside and let us take a short look at the intertwined competences and the competence jungles of the federal government and countries. I understand that no one here can hear the word ‘administrative reform’. This has already been rotated x-time by the meat wolf and back again. You are likely to have a thorn in your eye, Mr Minister, but perhaps for another reason. For years, there have been concepts, analyses, international comparison scenarios and all come to the same conclusion: Firstly, it is basically difficult to develop efficiency potentials, precisely because of the lack of comparisons. Secondly, Only if you work with the numbers that exist and model them with comparison models will huge savings potential be shown in the national administrations. Thirdly, These savings potentials are not even based on a worse output, you just have to restructure it and reorganise it. And fourthly, In particular, the unclear competences and the mixed competences between the federal government and countries create massive problems. I mention two examples that everyone in here knows enough: One is the school theme, where the federal government, the Länder and sometimes the municipalities have their fingers in different ways, and if nothing goes on, one puts the blame on the other, partly probably right. Because one needs one another on one side and if ten are sitting at a table, nine countries and the Federation, then of course it is difficult to achieve something reasonable. Second, I call health – we have already discussed a lot about it today – a wonderful example of great interrelationships. The Minister of Health is a pitiable person because he has a function that makes reasonable work very difficult. It's just too many jobs. The countries want to boost the costs to health insurance providers and health insurance companies to the hospital holders. This is how it goes from time to time, but there is nothing going on except that national leaders are setting up beautiful hospital buildings, whose need is known to be questionable. Finally: There must be more far-reaching consequences than what you have announced, because new tax packages will certainly not help the Republic of the massive sovereign debt. A comprehensive and objective discussion on Austrian federalism needs to be held, better today than tomorrow. In addition, the much quoted and often stressed administrative reform needs to be implemented. This is not about momentary changes, but about comprehensive reforms. We need to respond appropriately to what happened in the hypo-debakel and what other financial scandals – I call Lower Austria, Linz and Salzburg – have shown us. We have to react and we have to do it now.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14588	In response to the question, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14609	Madam President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and in the Members' Banks! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! First of all, I would like to make it clear in advance: Last Friday, a week ago, we made a decision on the future of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, namely to trigger and sell the network and on the other hand to create a special unit of degradation. I mention this because once again, in a urgent request – today by NEOS – on the first hand, we are talking about creating an institution solution. That's wrong and wrong. I would like to stress it once again: We just didn't create an institution solution. This is important to me, because it has to be clear: This decision by the Federal Government must be one in which both the country of Carinthia and the subordinate believers as well as the participation capital have to contribute, and therefore no institutional solution, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly, What happened in Carinthia under this responsible FPÖ government at that time must not repeat itself! [[Abg. Neubauer: With ÖVP participation!]] It should always be noted that the starting point for this mismanagement and the acceptance of the liability of the country of Carinthia was a government decision at the time, under the leadership of FPÖ head of state Jörg Haider, and that is the basis for us to work out these miseries today. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be repeated often enough, because it sometimes seems as if the arsonists are the accusers today, and that must not be allowed to stand! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but your predecessors were the fire accelerators! Mr. Pröll was a fire accelerator!]] That is why I have not only announced the solution, but also said: We will launch a comprehensive package in order to avoid such misdevelopments of the countries in the future. It is our duty, therefore, to create framework conditions today to ensure that future generations are not burdened with a liability mountain. That is our responsibility, our common, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I should like to repeat once again what this whole package that I have launched includes. Firstly, uniform accounting standards for the Federal Government and countries. Transparency is the command of the hour. Secondly, a ban on speculation for all countries and for the entire state sector. Thirdly, effective rules on liability limits. Fourthly, the pre-priority of fiscal consolidation at federal and country level and strict monitoring of the Stability Pact. It is only through these measures that we can look forward again, only by this can we come back to effective use of public funds. I will therefore present a comprehensive package of legislation to the House this year and hope that this will be borne by the widest possible majority. We will never again be able to accept the stable framework for the financial policy of the Republic, the countries as well as the municipalities and the federal government. This is one of many further steps that the Federal Government intends to take in this regard. We have known ourselves about a comprehensive administrative reform. The preliminary work is also going on as well as a federalism reform with a clear and modern line of competence between the federal government and countries. At this point, I should like to invite the opposition parties to participate. Finally, it will be up to all of us that what has led to a disaster in the Republic in Carinthia can never happen again. Let me now come to the individual questions. Questions 1 to 5: On your question of the liabilities, debt, financial transactions of all the local authorities and the related entities and companies, I can in principle note that the data of the regional authorities of the Bundesanstalt Statistics Austria on the debt of the State sector, which is also reported to Eurostat, represent the entire sector of state, i.e. the entities and local authorities distributed. The accounts of the local authorities – which will of course also be published – also contain the debts and liabilities of the local authorities. However, the presentation of all financial transactions in the accounts of the countries and municipalities is not planned at present. Such reports were unfortunately not carried by any constitutional majority in 2013 when one tried to reach a constitutional ban on speculation even at Parliament's level. Data on liability are also provided by the countries to the Austrian Coordination Committee in accordance with the Austrian Stability Pact 2012. [[Abg. Kogler: The license to speculate for the pomp was that!]] Based on this data, the following key figures for debt and liabilities of the countries and municipalities for the end of 2012, as far as we are concerned, can be mentioned in the statistics: The debt levels of the countries including Vienna amount to € 22.4 billion, those of the municipalities € 4.3 billion. The liabilities of the countries amount to € 68.3 billion, of which € 50.1 billion for credit institutions, those of the municipalities € 6.2 billion, of which € 1.2 billion for credit institutions. Questions 6 and 7: As the Federal Minister for Finance, I am responsible for the federal budget, but not for the budgets of the nine countries and not for those of the 2 353 municipalities. For reasons of competence, therefore, I cannot give you a fullness guarantee for the invoices of the countries and municipalities, nor can I give you any detailed information on the time when in the accounts of the individual communities since 1950 which liability has been released for the first time. Of course, it is the responsibility of the countries and municipalities to present all the data in a truthful and complete manner. Question 8: Derivative transactions are currently not listed in the accounts of the countries and municipalities. However, a corresponding addition to the VRV will be prepared together with the Court of Auditors as well as the countries and communities and will be announced in 2014. Questions 9 to 15 – These concern a uniform accounting system: With regard to questions concerning the modernisation of the VRV, I would like to predict that the Federal Government has established an internationally recognised modern and efficient budgetary law for the Federal Republic of Germany with the budgetary reforms 2009 and 2013. In this context, the Federation can call itself a reform engine, and it is also internationally recognized that this has happened in Austria. For the households of the countries and municipalities, according to the B-VG, the countries themselves are in charge. The Federal Government cannot act unilaterally, but through an important exception, namely the § 16 of the Financial Constitution Act, the authorisation that the Federal Minister for Finance may adopt a regulation in agreement with the President of the Court of Auditors, with the first form and breakdown and second estimates and accounts. The Federal Government lacks such competence in respect of other provisions on the estimates and accounts of the local authorities, in particular those containing the content of the provisions, so that only an agreement under Article 15a B-VG can enter into force on a uniform basis throughout Germany. In the government programme, the Federal Government has set itself the goal of harmonising the accounting rules for all public budgets and of shaping them according to liquidity resources and assets for all local authorities. Other provisions are to be harmonised with an Article-15a agreement. These discussions, for which there is no corresponding authorisation under a regulation, are currently being conducted with the countries and municipalities. But that's a big difference to what you're saying, because you're just referring to the part of the shape, and I have little of the structure alone – I have to have something of the content. This new Regulation and the Article 15a Agreement are therefore to be adopted or agreed in 2014 so that the reform can enter into force with effect from the 2018 budget. I am very confident that this project will succeed, since the countries too are committed to this reform. They have long been skeptical of a budgetary reform, but since this financial scandal happened in Salzburg, there has been a turnaround. Meanwhile, in a decision of the national financial referee conference, all countries have become aware of a budgetary reform which makes liquidity, resources and assets the basis of their accounting. Four countries – Styria, Burgenland, Salzburg and Carinthia – are already working intensively on the implementation of reforms and are supported by my ministry. However, we are also active in the issue of budgetary reform of the countries and communities. The Federal Ministry of Finance has already agreed with the countries and municipalities in 2012 to submit a proposal for a VRV on the basis of the federal budgetary reform. Since then, they have been working on their implementation. Also in 2012, the preparatory work in cooperation with the University of Klagenfurt and subsequently also with the Court of Auditors was started. An intermediate result was presented in the summer of 2013. A complete package for a budgetary reform as a proposal for a new VR with the involvement of the countries and municipalities is now being completed. Especially today, this day, expert discussions with the countries and communities, the Court of Auditors and a scientific consultant – a professor of accounting at the University of Klagenfurt – took place in a very constructive atmosphere. The subject is the reform proposal of the Federal Government, which aims at reforming the budget of the countries and municipalities in a rounded and compact manner, in accordance with the model of the federal government, in line with the specificities of the countries and municipalities. On the question 16: I do not see it as my task as the Federal Minister for Finance to evaluate recommendations from the Court of Auditors to a federal state legally or objectively. However, I note that Carinthia has to make a contribution in the order of €500 million in order to repair the damage to the hypo caused by these exorbitant national liabilities. This was also the case last week in a Council of Ministers decision. On the question 17: Throughout records of the last 20 years on information collection are not known to my resort. The BMF is in an ongoing exchange of information with countries and communities, and the 2012 Austrian Stability Pact has provided for extensive mutual reporting and coordination of budgets so that the financial management and budgeting of the local authorities is regularly and mutually informed. Questions 18 to 27: An extension of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors is a competence of the Federal Constitutional Legislator, but not of the Federal Minister for Finance. The Court of Auditors is an auxiliary body of Parliament and its powers are regulated by the B-VG. If you want extensions, you need to discuss this here in the House. On the question 28: At the moment I seem to be given an adequate staffing of the Court of Auditors, even though the President does not quite see it as it is. Nevertheless, in the event of any change in audit skills, it will naturally be necessary to ensure that the Court of Auditors has appropriate resources. On question 29: A genuine supervisory right of the federal government over the countries and their budgets would probably only be exercised with a corresponding right of entry by the federal government. However, this would involve far-reaching constitutional competences that we do not currently have. Questions 30 to 36: Changes or additions to insolvency law fall within the competence of the Federal Minister for Justice, and I must leave it to him to be found over it. Questions 37 to 39: A working group of the financial compensatory partners was set up in 2008. Finally, in 2010, the Federal Ministry of Finance commissioned several studies on different aspects of a fundamental reform – specifically on the following topics: ‘Reform options and reform strategies’, ‘To strengthen the tax autonomy of subnational authorities’, ‘transfers and cost-bearing’, ‘communal structure and community cooperation’ and ‘enhanced task orientation’. I assume that, as a result of this extensive preparatory work with good will, a fundamental reform of the financial balance can be prepared quickly by all parties involved. The work will begin at official level quickly after completion of the budget work and the planned extension of the financial compensation, i.e. this year. Questions 40 to 42: The government programme of the Federal Government aims to promote a major administrative reform between the local authorities. The objective is, inter alia, an agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on the elimination of double and multi-tracks. Furthermore, there is a reduction in discretionary expenditure in the years 2014 to 2018, amounting to 5 percent on the basis of the 2011 financial statements. It is appropriate to carry out these discussions within the framework of the Commission on Tasks and Deregulation, as provided for in the Government Programme, and as far as possible. On questions 43 to 49 – on the debate on federalism reform –: The necessary reforms are to be developed together with the opposition parties. To this end, a federalism reform committee is to be set up at parliamentary level, which will develop, with the involvement of the countries, concrete proposals for the amendment of the Federal Constitutional Law. The implementation of this programme, as it is a Commission of Parliament, will be the responsibility of the parties represented in the National Council. Work is being done on concrete proposals. Much will have to be discussed so that we can also provide this project with a positive conclusion. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14743	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker has more than 10 minutes of speaking time available and a group has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14773	Madam President. Dear members of the government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens on the gallery – there are many young people here today – in front of the screens, in front of the computers! We NEOS have undertaken to promote mentality reform in this country; a mentality reform aimed at revitalising the culture of responsibility in Austria, because freedom and responsibility are two siblings. You can't choose one and send the other home – you can't. And I am pleased, Minister of State, that you are on your way in this direction. A month ago and a day on my blog – for the citizens I was happy to read on www.strolz.eu – I listed ten points that we should learn from the scandals of Salzburg, now of course also Hypo – especially Hypo; the €10 billion and more that will cost us. And I am pleased that I can make a hookerl behind two points, although not yet implemented in the sense of “implemented”, but it has gone on the journey within the last four weeks, namely the issue of modern insolvency law for the banks, where we can also include the responsibility of creditors – that is, Bail-in – where we can also make equity swaps – a keyword transfer of equity logic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] All these are things we haven't talked about a month ago. We have not yet talked about a month ago that we are now really modernizing the accounting system of the countries in this form, at this pace. [[Abg. Fekter: Oh, yes!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: We already!]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and ÖVP]] – I know you will say “government programme” now, but not at this pace. [[New calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Okay, I'm just about to praise you, dear ÖVP, dear SPÖ. - I'm just saying one thing: Dear citizens of this country, if you keep the pressure high, even ÖVP and SPÖ move! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's the call: Please, we will still create 100 000 signatures under this petition today or tomorrow! If we do this tomorrow, I think that would be a strong signal. I think you're still learning that you're not going to pass the investigation about Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Call the ÖVP:Haider Alpe-Adria!]] It is my concern, when we say mentality reform, when we say self-reliance and thus also freedom, that we naturally look at federalism as we are currently living in Austria. [[Abg. Wooker: ÖVP program!]] We should not extend this as before. I have two observations which I would like to give you very concretely. I was on my way to the election campaign in all the capitals of the country, and one of them noticed me in Klagenfurt. I was on the road on all roads – perhaps not in all, but in many street trains of the capitals of the country – and I noticed that in Klagenfurt there were huge numbers of disabled cards in the cars. I thought: How's that? – I had already forgotten this observation when a month later I was sitting over a paper from NEOS on the subject of injustices in the Austrian pension system. And that's why I thought that the men in Carinthia had a percentage of disability pensions of 64 percent. That is, of the men who retire in Carinthia, 64 percent go to invalidity pension. The average in Austria is 38 percent. So in Carinthia there are almost twice as many who are invalid as average in the rest of Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: They didn't stop all the sharks!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Haider syndrome!]] Yes, I'm asking you! This is, of course, structural corruption, and I tell you, you are compliments to this structural corruption if you do not notice it for years and decades. [[Abg. Lopatka: Watch out! Watch out for the choice of words!]] – This is structural corruption, or do you really believe that the average carinthia doubles... – “structural corruption”, I say. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is a criminally relevant accusation! Complicate corruption!]] [[Further calls.]] [[Call: Corruption remains corruption]] Yes, I think you've closed your eyes here to acts that aren't all right, because you're costing people hundreds of millions of taxpayers, of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Second observation: In December 2012, the financial scandal came in Salzburg. We've been looking for €1.8 billion for several months, and we still don't know exactly how the €1.8 billion was charged, what there was or just not. – And you, Mr Minister, say when answering question 8 – in what form financial transactions, whether risk-related or risk-refining financial transactions, such as derivative transactions, are depicted in the accounts of the local authorities –: Yes, we have to deal with that. That is not happening at the moment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] - I don't understand things like that! We have an annual budget of approximately €2.4 billion in Salzburg. The financial officer stood up in December 2012 and said: From €1.8 billion I don't know where exactly they are! – Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't know about two thirds of your annual income or pocket money where it is, I'd have to ask: Are you okay? Do I have to put you under guard? – If you, as an employee, as an employee, as an entrepreneur of two thirds of your annual income, do not know where the money is going, I would have to ask you: What's going on? – And you say today, one and a half years after that: We haven't regulated that yet! - I don't understand things like that! That is why I promise you, if now two points of the ten that we propose go on a journey: We will sit in the neck – every day! We're not going to stop being annoying here because it's about tax money that we burn! And the €10 billion or whatever it is at the Hypo Alpe-Adria, they will miss us in all areas – families, schools, childcare – and that's why it's going to hurt year after year. Even my children will be hurt! We'll be shivering and sleeping on these stories for a long time. That is why I demand that we draw the consequences more carefully than before and learn more determinedly than before from these mistakes that we have made. This is our job as a politician, and we have to do it. We are elected for this and we are paid for it. – We will remain annoying in this matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14955	The next speaker was Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14976	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So the question of Bail-in and Equity Swap is not only on the tapet for a month, but we have been talking about it for years. Since the large banks are not only acting nationally, but also internationally, i.e. in many countries, this is of course a classic example of the fact that it is not now possible to deal with national regulations, but that international regulations are needed – therefore also the supervision of banks at European level, which is why it is also the recovery and insolvency solution at European level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] We have already decided here a part of the last year – you were not yet in Parliament – of the Banking Intervention and Restructuring Act. We will, of course, implement the second part at national level in accordance with the European rules. On the question – that does nothing so directly about the matter now, but nevertheless – of invalidity pensions: It does not decide the policy of who can go to disability pension or not, that still decides a doctor. We know that there are too many in Austria who do so, and therefore there are new rules, for example, that the invalidity pension may also be temporary up to a certain age. [[Abg. Stroll: That's the felt! The red-black felt!]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Oberhauser and Mr Strolz]] That is why there are also rules: because we know that we have to defy and that there are problems in reality. But to make ourselves here and to blame structural corruption is, of course, to reject and, at least, cannot be accepted. On the core issue of your request, as we can ensure greater transparency between the local authorities and within the local authorities, in terms of financial flows, debt, accounting and so on: I believe that what we need – and that is what we said here a year ago – is a uniform accounting system for all local authorities, but different according to the size and task of the local authority. For the private sector, we have such rules, which are different depending on the size of the company and the sector in which the company operates. There are full-featuring, partial-costing, revenue-expenditure calculators, UGB calculators, IFRS calculators – that is, different rules depending on size and task, but a uniform, coherent system. We have this for everyone in the private sector, and this is something we need with the local authorities. Of course, the suit that fits the union must not fit a community, and the suit that fits the municipality of Vienna will probably be the wrong one for Gramatneususdl or another community, which is significantly smaller even if it has similar tasks. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Not even a mayor!]] This means that we need a common law, but it is different according to the task of the local authority or according to the size. In principle, we agreed once, only a year ago there was a slightly different position that had greens – slightly overstretched – said: As long as the Federation does not pass over the countries, it cannot be a good rule! That is to say, the Federation should have passed over the countries, so much so with the twin tire over the face of Pröll, only then will it apply. [[Abg. Rossmann: We have said federal uniform solutions!]] This is not our position, we do not live in a driving society, not in a driving democracy, but in a negotiating democracy, and the legitimacy... [[Abg. Rossmann: We are in a blockade democracy!]] [[Abg. Kogler: You want to protect your uncles!]] Land chiefs, apologies, Members of the Landtag are just as elected as Members of the National Council, they are no less democratically legitimate than we are. [[Abg. Brosz: heads of state!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kogler]] And, of course, a small community knows better what it needs than I believe at the federal level that it is better for them. [[Abg. Kogler: But St. Pölten knows who!]] – Mr Kogler knows everything as always. [[Abg. Kogler: No, St. Pölten!]] However, we – ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ – agreed anyway, we have already agreed twice on a text, but unfortunately, each evening on the eve parties have jumped off. I can only say that the SPÖ has never failed that we are coming to a common regulation here. [[Abg. Neubauer: The SPÖ is most often a failure!]] We are still open to it. We do not believe that what we want must be done until the seventh indent. It is important for us that there is a uniformly comparable accounting system between the local authorities, and we are still open to discussions. We have also included this in the government programme, but we will need a two-thirds majority to do so. As I hear it, the opposition parties are not ready to do so, so we will always be able to regulate it simply by law. [[Abg. Rossmann: To present a proper regulation!]] Finally, I would like to say the following – because it is often presented in such a way that you need to know what is happening in a business, in a branch at the push of a button –: Please, we are in a democracy, there is a country not a branch of the federal government and also a community is not a branch of the federal government. They're just as democratically legitimate as we are. An operation works top-bottom, but a democracy bottom-top. The question is whether we want to find ourselves in a democratic system – such a thing now works differently than an operation, and that is good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15152	Mr Keck spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the rules, I think I do not need to repeat them. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15179	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member Strolz has claimed that in Carinthia 64 percent are invalid. It is therefore a structural corruption of the government because in Carinthia there are so many invalids. It is right, Mr Strolz, to establish the invalidity of judicially sworn experts, to say: Physicians; they establish an invalidity. Their claim would thus mean that all physicians who find an invalidity – even if it is 64 percent in Carinthia – would be corrupt.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15220	Mr Jakob Auer. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15250	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Keck's correction has once led Mr Strolz. You should apologise, Mr Strolz, for this unqualified claim. At least you'd have this propriety! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This urgent question is a little further today, and it is quite possible to discuss structural reforms of countries, urgent financial control measures and consolidation to protect taxpayers. Yeah, you should think about it, not a question at all. But today you, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, have formulated in this urgent matter what is essentially already on the way, as Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister has already said. You're a little late with that! The fact is that now after this hypo decision a professional processing is necessary. And if you think that this government and the Federal Minister had been delayed for too long, I will tell you that during the ten years, I would have done only a little of what the Federal Minister has done in one month, we would have fewer problems, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Stroll: Four years!]] Much less! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] A precise timetable has been presented, and renowned experts have been brought on board, and it is clearly structured. The aim is to create a special law of the hypo until the summer. You are invited to join us here, and I am eager to see if what happened again last year when the opposition was asked to participate in the ban on speculation: It has just jumped off, after all possible reasons! [[Abg. Kogler: That wasn't one!]] [[Abg. Kogler: You believe your own shame again!]] – You are not currently in demand, Mr Kogler. Ladies and gentlemen! The decisive thing is... [[Abg. Kogler: Pröll continues to speculate, and that is your merit!]] - No one's speculating! [[Abg. Kogler: Of course!]] You might be in your bizarre theories. You speculate every day on how you can pull off a political spectacle here. That's all you do not speculate! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is not about solving the problem, ladies and gentlemen. If such a great damage is given to the Republic, to the taxpayer as in this case, if a federal state assumes a more than tenfold liability of the annual budget – a more than tenfold liability of the annual budget! – a head of state Jörg Haider sells this bank and proudly states that Carinthians will be rich,800 million cashed in order to repay the debt from the convertible bond, and the Bayern is supposed to cross the table – at least it is presented in this way – I already have to clarify the following: [[Abg. Kogler: So what?]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kogler: With the ÖVP!]] The fact is, the guarantee, the liability remains to the country Carinthia and thus to the taxpayer! – In view of this master achievement you can only shake your head, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] But we know that from the liberals Where you have the saying, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are always the other blame! [[Abg. Kogler: The even greater performance is that you can do this!]] He was there, they were there, and who else, they're always the other ones! [[Abg. Kogler: You were always there!]] Not the Freedom Party! [[Abg. Podgorschek: You don't hear my speeches!]] The fact is, one could compare this financial debacle to a big fire, with a big financial fire, only: A good fireman will first save what is to be saved, namely to protect all possibilities, then he will delete, so that this fire does not expand, and then he will seek the cause of the fire. [[ongoing calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kogler: Investigate what to examine!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] And you're not suitable as a extinguisher, because you're on the road with the petrol barrel! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: But neither do you! You're not at all!]] Not for nothing does the Klubobmann Strache, who is absent today, explain to us that the Freedom Party would have a third blame! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kogler]] A third debt! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's already a whole lot if he himself says he's got a third of a debt. And if one of the FPÖs admits to having a third debt, it's probably two thirds, that's once undisputed. [[Call the ÖVP: Three-thirds!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If today was meant, in the accounts of the federal government, the countries and [[Abg. Neubauer: How many blacks are already in the port?]] Municipalities could be the true financial flows, which do not understand the circumstances, I must say: [[Abg. Neubauer: How many ÖVPlers are already in port?]] Then you have to read the federal accounts! You should read the respective national accounts! Since I myself was mayor of a community for 32 years, I can say that there is a cent inside, how high the liabilities, the assets and so on are. You have to look at it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] The audit competence of the Court of Auditors is required – yes, rightly. Ladies and gentlemen! The audit competence was given in Carinthia until 2005, then one has been tricked and has changed the asset relationship, the majority relationship, so that the Court of Auditors no longer has competence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The test expertise in Salzburg, Linz, in St. Pölten, in many other larger cities is given anyway. The auditors, such institutions, the countries, know exactly how to proceed. The question is: What lessons and conclusions are drawn from them? What's being done about it? Is that any paper, any report that doesn't interest anyone? The Liberal Party could then be asked to ask Mr Podgorschek the question: In the hypo there was also a supervisory commissioner who was sent by the country of Carinthia, who was that? Was that the financial referent? [[Abg. Darmann: That's not true!]] Was that a liberal member of the government? [[Abg. Darmann: Look at the Holding Act!]] Was that a liberal member of the government? [[Abg. Darmann: This is not true! Look at the law!]] That's true! That is why it is quite positive, ladies and gentlemen, if the Vice-Chancellor now uses this committee of inquiry, that Dr. Griss, who is undisputed, who is professionally competent over all precepts, leads, away from the political theater, away from foaming, in an objective, competent atmosphere, with internationally renowned experts. [[Abg. Neubauer: After the Klasnic the next supply segment!]] This will contribute to the fact that this debacle actually appears.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15622	Mr Elmar Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15649	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear Jakob Auer, I give the Lord Vice-Chancellor perfectly right – it cannot be repeated often enough –: Let's set up a committee of inquiry! Let's see who's responsible! And then we'll see who's to blame, and these allegations are going to go to emptiness. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Who's to blame for?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] - Let's put one in! We want to find out who these arsons were, and we also want such a thing to never repeat again! – The arsonists were those who bought back this sick cow in 2009. [[Call:Who were the arsons]] That's the reality! [[Complementary of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You will not believe that the population is taking this ridiculous poster action seriously, because already more than 95 000 people have signed the petition to set up an investigation committee. [[Further call-ins]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15744	Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't want me to interrupt the session so that a little rest will come back, please let this rest come back! [[Abg. Kogler: Are still very disciplined!]] The signs have been enough on television, so that you can also remove them again, as well as all the other, including opposition parties, are asked by me in this direction. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kogler]] Mr Podgorschek, you are speaking. [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] . I warn you that if it really continues to be so tumultuous, I will reserve the right to interrupt the session. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15788	Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have rightly added three points in the press hour, which you want to implement shortly. – I try to return a little to real politics and leave the path of populism that my previous speaker has taken. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you want to introduce a uniform accounting system, you want to introduce a ban on speculation and a bank insolvency right. – Yes, these three projects find our support, but until now you have always failed with the resistance of the countries, especially on the dynamic duo from Lower Austria and Vienna. That must also be said. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is important that we get a uniform accounting system, first of all, in order to get an overview of the total debt, because there are indeed municipalities and also countries that are still hiding debts. This is once a crucial point so that you can take the next step. One thing is not going to save us, even though in the past GP it has been said time and again that we will introduce reforms that we will introduce reforms step by step or step by step: Yeah, but that's not where we're going. I have said again and again in the past GP that we must also consider other countries, for example Sweden. Sweden was in a situation similar to Austria now, perhaps even worse. But if we do the hypo billions – and we need a lot longer if we don't do anything. [[Abg. Fekter: The Sweden needed ten years!]] No, five years the Swedish took, Mrs Exminister. [[Abg. Fetter: Ten years!]] At the end of the nineties, Sweden was in a similar situation. Sweden, however, has sustained its state, and now Sweden has a rehabilitated budget. They usually reach a budget surplus. And in addition, they have a lower level of indebtedness than we do. If you want to, but this is not done with reforms step by step, but there you really have to implement sustainable reforms. It is also necessary to take seriously the proposals made by the Austrian Convention at the time. We are also prepared to do so by the opposition. Only if we always carry on this childish hack about the hypo, namely, who is guilty, will we not take a step forward, I am already prophesying to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Then give it once that you were!]] – We have long known a partial debt, but you have to come so far that you too admit that the emergency stateization was an insanity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happens to banking insolvency law: Yeah, it's good if we can take banks off the market. We've needed that for years. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I remember the municipal credit, I remember the ÖVAG and now the Hypo Alpe-Adria. So far, everything has only been renovated at the expense of the taxpayer and at the expense of our citizens, and this cannot continue in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15876	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Bruno Rossmann. - Please. [[Call the ÖVP:The H.-C. and the Herbert simply lack!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. [[Prolonged calls.]] – One second, deputies! I am now going to interrupt the session, and I ask the club members to take a stand-up address to me. [[Abg. Kogler: government hooligans!]] Mr Kogler will receive an order immediately upon resumption of the session.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15942	I'm going back to the interrupted session and I'm leaving for the clubmen. Mr Mag. Rossmann has the floor now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15980	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr Auer, you have already learned part of the text: Save what can be saved! But the second part you still have to learn: Investigate what to investigate! – but not by a government commission, but by a committee of inquiry in this House. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Now to the actual content: Mr Finanzminister, when I listened to you earlier, you made a number of confessions and listed a long list of points that you will make. Of course, many things could have happened in the past, for example, the ban on speculation, which I now want to deal with a little closer. It is quite exactly one year ago, when drafts were discussed with the Greens, how one can put the speculation to life in this country. And there have been examples of speculation at federal level, given at country level, at municipal level, so there would have been enough occasions. But unfortunately, the regulation you have submitted to us has been in a number of ways unsatisfactory. I begin with the ban on speculation in the narrowest sense, namely the anchoring of the risk aversity of the orientation of financial management for federal, regional and local authorities. There were certainly positive approaches in there: a ban on foreign currency investments, no derivative transactions without basic business, no presumption, for example, by borrowing. But what was missing – and this has not made the whole watertight – was that there were probably gaps, namely the gap that it would have been possible to address divestments of land assets, such as housing loans, in a very speculative way, and allegations. So what Erwin Pröll made in Lower Austria would have been possible with that proposal you made a year ago. There can be no mention of a ‘watertight regulation’ at all. It also did not confirm to the Minister of Finance that it was a waterproof scheme at the time – for good reason she did not confirm it. Second point: It would have been implemented. All about an Article 15a agreement, which the Minister of Finance said at the time that she was at the heart of this ban on speculation. Mrs. Finanzminister out of office, that was – I have already said that at the time, and I repeat it at this point – the “watering piece” of this speculation ban. Why? – Because it would have triggered a cascade of regulations and directives. It would have transferred the decision on what is risk-related to countries, i.e. nine regulations at national level. It would have had to have done nine times the directives on what is to be understood as ‘risk’; nine directives. And the Federation should also have made guidelines. What we do Greens, on the other hand, have called for an Article 15a agreement, not an agreement, but a federal uniform arrangement with the anchoring of the principles in our federal constitution. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] That would have been the right step, the first step! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At that time, this affected § 17 of the Financial Constitution, which should have been introduced. The second, but even more important, step is that, in order to implement a speculation ban, of course, the conditions also need to be created, namely by means of a corresponding reporting, because it is of little use if we have a ban on speculation but cannot look into the national budgets and see what is happening there. Of course we should have read: What else is there about speculative shops? How do the stands change? Above all, we would have needed a modern accounting system. And a modern accounting system – Mr. Strolz, sorry – we have not been discussing this for many, many years now. I remember very well the first meetings and the creation of the new budgetary law for the Federation. We once had an article 53e in the draft. At the time, he invited the countries and communities to implement in analogy what has now been implemented by the federal government. Who prevented this? – The federal states, with the argument that this is an intervention in their budget and financial autonomy. [[Abg. Kogler: What a madness!]] At this level, it has continued. You, Mr Strolz, and Mr Loacker, too, say: § 16 para. 1 of the Financial Constitution would be sufficient to create a modern accounting system. – I really have to contradict that: § 16 para. 1 of the Financial Constitution speaks only of the form and breakdown of the estimates and accounts, but not of the contents. When it comes to establishing uniform federal regulations, we need uniform assessment schemes, then we need uniform estimates and accounting approaches. This would be the core of a new § 16 para. 1, not the form and division, and not this immoral agreement of holy blood, which was concluded in 1974, which has since blocked any solution because it requires an agreement with the countries. If the countries – and they had enough time – had studied federal budgetary law, which was put into effect in two phases, then it would be easy to implement these provisions for modern accounting at national level. You, Mr Finanzminister, have said for yourself that there are a number of federal states which are already beginning to implement such regulations: the Burgenland, the Styria, Carinthia and Salzburg. But it would be important that all of this is done in a uniform process, that these are not again regulations, where one federal state does this and the other federal state does it. We will never come to comparisons and comparisons. We will never come to benchmarking of certain services, for example in the field of care or other services, so that we can then compare both the standards and the content and quality of certain services per state. There, efficiency potentials are slumbering, which would be implemented. But that is only possible if we have a federal accounting system. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] And as long as we do not have this, but rather a blockade of the countries – and we have experienced this during the negotiations in the previous year – we will never get into this situation for so long. I remember very well the negotiating situation when Mr. – then Klubobmann – came up with a proposal from Mr. Landesführer Wallner from the remote Vorarlberg and represented the state government. This has actually prevented us from establishing a solution to a ban on speculation and a modern accounting system at the time. [[Abg. Kogler: Mrs Fekter was on our side!]] Mrs Fekter was on our side at the time, but could not prevail against the countries. Those who have enforced themselves were once again the countries. And on the part of the countries, it is really about thinking in Win-win situations for taxpayers, finally overcoming old thinking patterns, not only old thinking patterns, but also possession thinking. Only when this will succeed will we come to a new kind of financial federalism. Taking a measure of a new, modern financial federalism – not in content, but in the process – we can, if we take a look at Switzerland. When we look at the process, at the beginning there was an opinion by five experts under the direction of René Frey. Then there was a long discussion process in Parliament, inviting and attracting experts from politics and science. At the end, a decision-making process by Swiss citizens was in the context of a referendum. Even on such bulky things as a financial constitution and distribution of competence, the Swiss people were able to form an opinion because the discussion process was so publicly conducted. It's all under the bag with us. And what was the result of this referendum? – A two-thirds majority as an agreement to unbundle the competences and a new federalism. We could look away from this process, and if we try to go this way, and if the federal states finally throw off their blockade, their patrimony and their old thinking patterns, then, I believe, we can come to a federalism in our country, which is no longer an execution federalism, but is a federalism of the cooperative kind. That's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16094	Now comes Mr. Ing. Robert Lugarzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16118	Madam President. High house! Today, when we talk about federalism and the reform of the same name, that is, when it comes to the reorganisation of the countries and the question of the rights and obligations to them, the question is whether your approach is the right one, Mr Spindelegger. If you say that there is a need for discussion about a sensible federalism reform – involving the countries – then it would be comparable to a question to the frogs whether they want to dry the swamp. So in the end, neither frogs nor countries will have great joy if you get into the craftsmanship. [[Abg. Wittmann: Wrong speech!]] Many now ask: Why do we want to restrict the countries, they are so popular? – The heads of state – starting with Erwin Pröll and downward – are actually very popular with their population. Yeah, but why is that? Why are the national chiefs – and this is especially important for Lower Austria, now especially for Erwin Pröll, yes blasphemous – much more popular than for example the Bundes-ÖVP? – The answer is simple: The countries only have to spend, nothing else. The countries have only one task: to spend money. Countries do not have to worry about taking money. That is, whenever you implement an unpleasant tax increase, the countries cash a third of it and then spend the money. And if they do not deal with the money, there is an additional possibility for the countries to accept debt. In addition, the countries for the planning and implementation of projects for which there is no money have their own banks and their own liabilities, so that these banks can continue to finance everything that is to be financed. And remember, if you always point your finger at Carinthia: This makes this quite the same way in Lower Austria: The Land of Lower Austria also implements every project with its Land-Hypo, and the The whole thing will then be secured with a national liability. Many others do the same. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] Which means: “Such a fool!”? – Read the current prospectus from the Hypo Lower Austria! There it is advertised by the fact that the Lower Austrian taxpayer comes up for everything when it goes into the pants. On the one hand, with the liability in the background, projects are implemented and on the other hand, you show your finger to Carinthia and say that this is not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Strasser]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Today we were accused by the opposition that we did not vote in favour of the ban on speculation. I was with you back then. I'd like to remind him: Salzburg speculated billions back then. Finally, it was less and in the end nothing at all. This is comparable to the hypo: First, it's billions that have been speculated, then it's nothing again. Then it is 10 billion, 12 or 15 billion €, depending on who calculates it. [[Abg. Darmann: Budget hole in autumn!]] On the occasion of the scandal in Salzburg, we wanted to ban speculation here in Parliament, and we were all ready to do so. But what did it fail to do? – It has not failed that the opposition has said unanimously, we want to stop doing what they want and not to be held accountable for, and we want to ban the countries permanently. What happened? Mr Pröll has come and turned it off. They also admitted in the discussion that this was simply the maximum of the possible – a placebo, a patch that you pick on a big wound, which is ultimately far too small. You admitted that to yourself at the time. If we want to make something meaningful about the countries, we need to talk about the rights and obligations of the countries. We need to talk about whether the countries are allowed to continue and do what they want, and whether we want to continue to finance it all. That's what we need to talk about. It may be difficult to stand up against Mr Pröll. There's even a prominent victim we all know. Josef Pröll, then Minister of Finance and nephew of Erwin Pröll, was not removed from politics because of health problems at the time. He retired because his own uncle fell in his back on this matter. [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] He fell in his back because he wanted to commit a sacrileg, namely to implement the transparency database. [[Abg. Haubner: I'm going!]] He wanted the countries not to be able to do and leave what they want, but to be transparent to the Federation. That's what he wanted. [[Abg. Straster: at land level!]] And what happened? - They saw him cold. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's the problem. As long as we do not talk about whether we want to continue to be directed by the countries in the health field, in education and in many other areas, as long as we do not talk about whether or not we are not using a constitutional law – and for this we are all at our disposal – at last putting the countries back where they belong, there will not be much to do. It can't be that one is spending and the other is putting the beatings in order to remove the taxes that the countries in turn spend freshly and cheerfully. And it can't be that countries can simply do what they want: Speculate, accept debt, put your own banks under a ceiling and enter into liabilities that ultimately hit the taxpayer. That's not going on in the long run either. Mr Minister, you have been asked today what you want to do now in order to create a national insolvency right. We've had the problem for four years that the Pleite Carinthia is floating over us like a damocles sword. What have you done in these four years as ÖVP chief? Today you have the naughtiness – and I really have to say this, the naughtiness – to answer a question of NEOS in this way, and the question was indeed justified: [[Hello-Rufe at the ÖVP]] What have you done in the face of the hypo plea, so that in the future a federal state, whether it is Lower Austria or another federal state, will not be able to re-enter the federal government and thus the taxpayer? What did you do?, was the question today. And what do you answer? Skill You remember? - That's not your business. [[Abg. Rädler: Lower Austria!]] There's a Minister of Justice to do this. Now I'm wondering, Isn't that your party's? [[Abg. Lopatka: No! It's not our party's!]] And did you not feel it necessary to talk to him and ask him how such a thing could be prevented in the future? But no, that doesn't make sense to you. You're a lot more important. You have to make it clear to everyone that the evil Carinthias now have to pay. [[Abg. Wöginger: What kind of shack is that?]] Now you're suddenly becoming strong. The Carinthians are the evil ones, and they have to pay now. But before that, when it came to the Bayern and all the speculators who bought these highly speculative bonds of the hypo, you didn't hear anything about them. They don't have to pay now. No one has to pay, except the taxpayers. [[Abg. Wögerer: The Lugar-Philosophy!]] And it doesn't matter whether it's a Carinthian taxpayer, a Lower Austrian, an Upper Austrian or another taxpayer. But suddenly you're strong. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like you to take responsibility for those who actually have something to do with this matter. Mr Auer needs a picture today that really speaks volumes. He said we were so unresponsible, because the house would have burned and we would have promoted this fire and not played fire brigade. Take this picture, then this house already burnt Carinthian Hypo when it was sold by Bavaria, although only in the basement in the back section, but it has already been completely hidden. And what did the Bavaria do instead of eradicating this fire? – You have also spread this fire to other cellar parts. [[Vice Chancellor Spindelegger: Cellar fires!]] Finally, the whole house burned. And now you're on the plan: When the whole house already burned, you bought it back. Who's doing such a thing? Who buys a house he sold when the fire was still to be extinguished, but when he buys it is in full fire? Who's taking back such a house? It only takes someone back if he has interests on the other side. And these interests were quite simple: Erwin Pröll didn't want this bank to go bankrupt. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: My God!]] In this case, the Erwin Pröll would have paid over the Land-Hypos and the liability. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Strasser: What about the liabilities in Carinthia?- Oh, my God!]] That's how it looks! And not only the Erwin Pröll would have paid for it, it would have paid the raiffeisen and many more. And that's what you wanted to prevent. [[Abg. Wöginger: By-vocation: Wachsager!]] If you look at Erwin Pröll, the most powerful man in the ÖVP, on the one hand, and at the other side of the taxpayers, what do you think the worse cards have? - That's exactly how it went out. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is also the reason why you do not want an investigation committee, but rather use a pseudocommittee that is toothless and where you also have your hand on what comes out. You can't know what's going on with an investigation committee. You know that at your Commission, and you can also intervene in the tax - not at an investigation committee. [[Abg. Darmann: The so-called Figblatt Commission!]] That's the fear you have in a committee of inquiry, and that's why he's not coming. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But if you do, that is the question, because at the moment when the citizens are going to understand out there that they have to expect a tax increase after the other, at the moment this will no longer please the citizens – and I am really looking for every citizen to sign our petition so that we can finally get an investigation committee! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16403	Mr Lugar, for the use of the word 'Frequentness' I give you a call for order. ) Mr Hable came next. [[Call:Bravo]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16436	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Citizens in the galleries and in front of the screens! It is necessary to clarify that this will still be the subject of an investigation committee, and I am convinced of that. [[Call the ÖVP: Hellseeher!]] But the theme of today's urgent question is of course Lessons learnned, the lessons to be learned from this financial disaster. What lessons do we need to learn for the future so that this financial disaster can no longer happen? Let me take three of them. First lesson: We do not have sufficient instruments for bank insolvency. There's a lot going on at the European level, very much in the process. We have the European bank settlement from 2016 onwards, that will be the second pillar of the banking union. We have the EU Bank Resolution Fund, which will be set up from now on for eight years. There are, as has been said, many things in the process, and there is also the positive influence of the European Union. One can see how well membership of the European Union does Austria, but it still takes time. We have to make it clear. We also need to create the necessary tools for bank insolvency. You could have done that since 2008, at the latest, it hasn't happened so far. We would therefore like to renew our request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the first lesson we should learn. Second lesson, state liability: The argument, the so-called "necessary state" – which was not – we have had to make because the country's liability was there because we did not get rid of the state's liability, is, of course, wrong. [[Call at ÖVP:Sonder?]] We now have the state bonds and the entire bank on our necks. – This argument is not correct. Also the argument that the emergency nationalization had to be made because otherwise the insolvency of the country of Carinthia is threatening is not correct in this form. I have received an e-mail from the SPÖ, in which citizens' questions are answered. The answer to a question by a citizen, how the whole thing was possible and why the citizens should now have to pay, would have been necessary, because in Carinthia the hospitals would have to be closed, there would have to be maintenance stations closed, and they hope that the emergency ambulances could remain open. They also write that numerous Carinthian kindergartens and sports facilities would have to be closed, schools would have to be restricted. So I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, that's not fair! It is unworthy to insure the citizens of this country with such panic! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and representatives of Greens and FPÖ.]] You should know, and I'll call it in memory if you look into the execution order and research it, then you'll find that wealth that serves non-profit ticks can't be executed at all. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But of course we have a problem when it comes to national liability, and this problem is part of Austrian federalism. Federalism is a good thing, but the way we put it here in Austria is not good, because it works according to the principle: What do we spend our own money on if we can spend a foreigner? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Therefore, we would like to repeat our request regarding an insolvency right for federal states: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Hable, colleagues, on insolvency law for local authorities The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to send a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, according to which regulations are made in the event of the insolvency of a local authority. In particular, the following aspects should be taken into account: Insolvency criteria (such as inability to pay and/or over-indebtedness); legal effects of finding insolvency; conduct insolvency proceedings; the possibility of compulsory administration; effects of insolvency on the liabilities of the local authority; Description of the exploitable asset mass of the local authority.’ That was the second lesson. Third and last lesson: modern accounting. We have heard it today, the question is of course why we have the same incidents again and again. Why do we have Salzburg? Why do we have Linz? Why do we have Carinthia? And we all know that's not all. This is the tip of the iceberg. One essential aspect of why we are constantly confronted with these financial debacles is the outdated accounting system, the camera-list, a simple revenue and expenditure accounting system, as used by every gripper – and thus we lead federal states. This is, of course, highly intrusive. Why are the federal states so opposed? – Yes, because they don’t want this transparency at all. If we are honest, it is always pleasant to push the money back and forth, as you want, of course, a modern accounting system cannot be welcome. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: They say they couldn't have done anything. – Of course, you would have the opportunity to act in accordance with § 16 of the Financial Constitution, and I must also oppose you, Mr Rossmann. It says renowned constitutional experts, which is of course a basis for modern accounting. If it were not enough, why do we then have the Holy Blood Agreement, where the countries have precisely negotiated that they need to be asked? [[Abg. Rossmann: because that goes beyond constitutional law!]] We should like to talk about it, Mr Rossmann, also with the constitutional experts who agree with us. Therefore, we repeat our request: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on the adoption of a regulation in accordance with § 16 para. 1 F-VG "The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to, in agreement with the Court of Auditors, a VO. § 16 para. 1 F-VG, which provides for a harmonised accounting of the countries within the meaning of a modern and transparent accounting system with double accounting and accounting in accordance with international accounting standards, so that debt and asset changes in particular are clearly apparent.’; I would like to draw attention to these proposals which we have already had, which have so far been rejected by SPÖ and ÖVP. You made a request at the last meeting, which aims exactly in this direction. We went along because we said: Yes, we are sachpolitically oriented, and if the direction is right, let's go with it too! You have three times the opportunity to act again on the subject, and in this sense I hope that you will go along with our three requests today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16534	The proposals put forward by Mr Hable are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16678	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16699	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Hable, I do not want to be an arbitrator now, but I think Bruno Rossmann is just right. You should read the rules in advance! [[Abg. Rossmann: Thank you!]] It is quite clear that if you want to, of course, this is about reporting and finalization, but not about how it is put forward if you want to do so, the entire accounting system is organized. We know such different structures. We have them in EU reporting. We have a so-called Maastricht deficit, which is not identical to an administrative budget. There is a transfer, and if there is a reporting, I can ask for the numberings to be done in this way, and this can very well be prescribed, but I cannot achieve the full implementation of the accounting system. That is why it is also reasonable what is contained in the government agreement. The NEOS quote it in their own request. We have agreed in the Coalition Agreement exactly a reasonable procedure, namely that the adoption of these rules takes place in intensive cooperation with those concerned, namely countries and municipalities. Believe me, it is really not a sensible process to leave the outside, to prescribe something that has not been prepared on the basis of the situation of those concerned. You must always check whether this is appropriate for this area in accounting rules. There will be different rules for small communities than for urban communities of greater nature. Of course, this is an extensive work, and of course a standardisation is difficult. But we agree on this, I am entitled to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution of 18. March. This has not been so long since, in addition to the government groups Greens and NEOS have already agreed. The motion for a resolution is sufficient. It is within, however, that the package of legislation should include the full implementation of the banking insolvency right, the comparable transparency of public budgets and a uniform speculation ban. Why Bring You're gonna do it again today? We're going to do it, it's okay. [[Abg. Stroll: More detailed subpoints!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - Please! On the question of Mr Hable, perhaps only to clarify what level of work is being done: May I remind you that the system of execution in the exploitation of assets by the mass administrator is not the legal basis? - I know it's similar. One is EO, the other is KO. In the meantime, it's insolvency. Now please explain to me why a mass administrator, would there be an insolvency right, not the exploitation of the entire assets, or could it? - Of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Hable: Liabilities!]] Therefore, it is not an abomination propaganda, but quite clear: If a public hand comes into any form of debt regulation, there is relatively little taboo. Read the newspapers of the last week, how the health institutions in Greece are together! Greece has not formally gone into bankruptcy. We have had two rescue packages and finally the ESM. But in fact, the exploitation of wealth – as the Troika dictates and it is restricted under the applause of the local opposition – means that there is nothing to pay for in Greece – means that the services for people who need health care are drastically limited. Whoever wants to, speaks around and says we can do exactly the same thing. Let us declare that liability is no longer worth any more! Do we imagine that in the case of a well-founded security, signed by the individual responsible, in the case of Jörg Haider as the head of state, now says, the castle pays nothing more? [[Abg. Wöginger: I can't do that! A whore!]] Or there are even idiotic proposals, we make a law and declare that the guarantee is no longer valid?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Have you ever imagined what that means? If not, I recommend looking at Buenos Aires. There the Argentine government has declared 13 years ago that I am not interested in a Parisian club, I am not interested in a declaration of liability. That was from the military dictatorship. Do you know where they stand today? – They have problems to pay for each import, the private! Who wants that? This talk about it: yes we go into bankruptcy and make a haircut, that has been acquired good, bad faith – a security is transferable! [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] Who can tell you that today's owner of the bond is the one who signed it at the time? - No one. Don't believe that the speculative products were a bond from a country-hypo. They've been taken into every fund in every pension fund. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, leave it open!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Tell the people! What you want is that the money disappears from the pension register, where the papers are inside. Tell me about it and you don't care if a kindergarten is locked up! You don't care if we have to submit a request to the ESM to reform our national debt perhaps then! Tell me all that! This is a policy that is not responsible, Mr Strolz! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: This is polemic!]] We want proper rules to be established, and I believe that if we follow the path with the motion for a resolution, we will bring together a regulation during the course of this year – without having to close kindergartens à la proposal of insolvency hetzers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16847	For the use of the word 'idiotically', Mr Matznetter, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Matznetter: Because of what?]] Next, Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16884	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Mr Strolz has shouldered responsibility. Yes, we take responsibility! It is precisely us as ÖVP, whether this is in Carinthia, whether that is in Salzburg, that has to clear up what others have done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: holding a hand with four stretched fingers in the height, laying the other hand in front of the eyes) Four years!]] That's what characterizes us: Accept responsibility, take on responsibility and then solve the problems. Since his start, Minister of Finance Spindelegger has taken one measure after another to get hold of this blue hypo disaster and to initiate the best solution for the taxpayer and the location, ladies and gentlemen. If the FPÖ, I have to say that all this energy always spends on assigning debt to others – Mr Haider, I am a business owner myself, and you are also one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] If you are head of the company today, you have the main responsibility for this company! The main responsibility for FPÖ in Carinthia was with Mr. Haider. That is also quite clear. [[Abg. Haider: nationally lit! The arbitrator was there, Mr. Colleague.]] If I have this responsibility as head of the company today, I can't say: All the others who worked with me, they're to blame, only I'm not to blame as a boss! – You should write that over your ears, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Now, if I look at the whole package of the NEOS, that's nice. [[Abg. Stroll: This is important, not nice!]] That's nice, in a sense, that you're bringing it today. We do not need that because we have already committed all of this. We have committed this to the government programme, but one cannot, of course, implement such a thing from today to tomorrow, but this takes time because it needs to be properly prepared. [[Abg. Stroll: Right to the test!]] We have drawn up this package of laws, and we will now put it into place on a point-by-point basis, because the Federal Government's objective is to implement a uniform ban on speculation for all territorial authorities in constitutional order. We have planned a number of measures to be taken here. So we also have the countries involved, which is also the important thing. I think we need it if we want to be successful afterwards, partner. That is why this partnership is the right way to go, with the countries, with the communities, with the cities. We will not make it from today to tomorrow, but we are in the best way that we will implement it as soon as possible now this year. I think that's the important thing, and that's the right thing. These measures must be put in place here. [[Abg. Stroll: holding a hand with four stretched fingers in the height, laying the other hand in front of the eyes) Four years like this!]] When you cut Salzburg, Mr Strolz: I like it, always when it comes out of your mouth, it's new, even though we've been dealing with it for a long time. So it's already true that you didn't need us to take action here now. [[Abg. Stroll: (a hand lying in front of the eyes) 18 months like this!]] If you pick up Salzburg that no one knows what's going on in Salzburg and how in Salzburg the debt is: Well, since we have the responsibility of the ÖVP, we know that very well. We've worked everything out, we've done everything, and we're on our way to making a new budget right. We're on our way to put the whole revision on new legs. - Yes, we solved the problem. We have dealt with it and are on the way to taking all the measures that are actually taking place. I have to say that there were still some examples of the country's liability today: It was already the responsible ones in Carinthia, and then I bring again the example of the boss who was then the one who led the country to the border of the Ruin. You have to end the fairy tale: The liability for the hypo-businesses was there from the beginning, they were from the beginning at the land of Carinthia; and according to Land Captain Haider were the bomb-proof, these liability. [[Abg. Haider: Zernatto! ÖVP!]] The liability chain was never interrupted, even when sold to Bavaria. These are the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's not the point!]] The chain of liability has never been interrupted, so we need these new rules so that a country can never again assume liability in such a scale. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing, too. It cannot always do everything of the covenant, and it cannot always be responsible for everything of the covenant. The federal states too must assume this responsibility. I told you, I'm from Salzburg. [[Call the ÖVP:A beautiful federal country!]] – Not only that, not only a beautiful federal state, but also a successful federal state. What happened in Salzburg, through the scandal, through speculations, we have worked it up. By the way, Mr Auer mentioned this first, and Salzburg was also repeatedly examined by the Court of Auditors. I therefore believe that this is probably also an optimization of the examination and not just an extension of the examination rights. We of the ÖVP have cleaned up this mine field; we have packed. I have already mentioned that we have also made a new budgetary right. And an extensive concept for a revision was already in place on 12. ==References====External links==* Official website Ladies and gentlemen! Again: Take responsibility, bear responsibility, that's brand Spindelegger, that's brand ÖVP. We are on a good way to come up with right solutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17077	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17098	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! So, Mr. Haubner, how was that? – Responsibility is Spindelegger. Responsibility is ÖVP. Do I have that right in my head? Jobs You agree with this responsibility and you agree to the setting up of a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] If it were the way you always represent it, then we, the FPÖ, would have to shiver the knees before a committee of inquiry is set up. But don't do it. We have mumm in the bones and say: Okay, let's take the responsibility! If something's happened, we'll stand by it, no problem! Let's see it's better done! What are you doing? Question: Where is your attitude, your character, your steadfastness, your backbone? But we will not only be constantly talking about the hypo here, but there are still other issues that I would like to vent a biterl, especially when it comes to consolidation and transparency. The need for a uniform budgetary law down to the municipalities has already been addressed. This is really an important issue. We can see from various reports by the Court of Auditors that it is right there. I now take an example: Family benefits have been seen. I believe that federal, state and local authorities have over 100 family benefits in total. But one cannot say what the goals are and what it brings us. This is an example of why this is urgently necessary. Thank God there is at least agreement here in the house that such a thing should come. Whatever is to be addressed in this context is, of course, the control option, the municipal examinations. You know, we stand by the fact that the Court of Auditors should, in principle, have the power to examine each single municipality in Austria, for which we naturally need this comparability. But if you know the whole structure, you also have to ask yourself the question: Does it make sense, then, that if I speak now of a small community, we have an audit committee there, where we have supervision by the district headquarters that have local authorities? Then we also have the national accounting court and finally the Federal accounting court. That is, we have to think about the number of test bodies here just as much and, above all, what skills they bring, where do we have the best resources for it, where do we have the greatest efficiency when it comes to lifting up these potentials that are slumbering there and are actually being lost. If we are talking about consolidation and transparency, then the Styria is always a show country. This is what the country's princes are calling themselves. On the topic of community mergers: I mean, no one will make reforms, but I would like to show by an example how it is not done. When the theme of “communal mergers” came to the tapet, there were in the Styria communities that said: Okay, let's get together, let's talk about it, maybe it makes sense! What do we have about it? – These have dealt constructively with this issue. Some municipalities have said: Yeah, that makes sense, we do, we're going through this thing! Now, if I have to make someone taste a merger as someone ruling a country, because I'm convinced that it's done, then I have to be so far as I'm saying: What happens if the municipality of A with the municipality of B and from me also melts with the municipality of C? That means: I have to set up a profitability calculation. I have to tell the people: If you do this, then you have this and that, then you stay in the bag that you can use for something else, maybe for something more successful, something better, whatever! But this has not been done. There has at no time been a calculation of what a community or two will save if they are now merged by means of a regulation or decision by the Landtag. These are the so-called forced mergers, where we say: It can't be! This is not just about driving, it is still a chapter of its own, but the democratic elements have been turned off – please, Mrs Colleague? [[Interlocutory remark by State Secretary Steßl.]] [[State Secretary Steßl: Do you always have to oppose reforms?]] No, we're not against reforms. Then, Mrs. State Secretary, you have not listened well enough before. I have said that we are in favour of reforms when they are useful and when they are explained what it is doing. And that's the difference! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you still go here and put a particularly cheerful end point, the forced mergers decide, without saying what it brings, and then to the mayors a year before the merger becomes effective, there are still juicy references, just to keep his own party guests who are really yelling revolts, so to speak, at the bar, then I wonder what the whole thing really brings. Then I throw out the money I might save myself in advance, and I don't even know if that's true! With regard to the increase in references to the mayors, I would like to say one thing now, because Mr Mayer mentioned this last time: I stand by it, the mayor has responsibility, really acts very, very much, also in time, in the sense of the population. We don't need to talk about it at all. This office has responsibility and should also be rewarded accordingly, no question. But why must there be increases in times of savings, consolidation and these forced mergers, which account for up to 40 percent? Explain this to the people, please! A solid reward is okay, but you can do that in stages. But that's just too much and not understandable for me!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17177	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17198	Madam President. I would like to comment on two points. One concerns the Court of Auditors. It is just a coincidence that this urgent question has interrupted the item on the agenda for the Court of Auditors. That's why it fits well. What we must certainly discuss in the future – and this has already begun with the debate in the Presidency – is the importance of employment with the Court of Auditors reports in Parliament. This time this item is already on the agenda much further, but is already interrupted by the debate on the urgent question. Otherwise, we will deal with the Court of Auditors' reports at the end of the agenda. At the same time, all speakers here rightly conjure up the importance of the Court of Auditors and its activities for the Austrians, but also for the work of Parliament. We have, as it were, discussed the testing skills. The last big yes, that has a lot to do with the urgent one. [[Abg. Hanger: Does this have anything to do with the urgent?]] If you had been careful, you would have known because the founder has talked about expanding the Court of Auditors' competence. The last enlargement – you may not know that – took place in 2010. At the time, we discussed the question of the number of inhabitants from which the municipalities should be made verifiable by the Federal Court of Auditors. And at the time – and we Greens have done so, if we had originally had the proposal that all the municipalities should be examined by the Federal Court of Auditors – we have gone through to the solution, to say, on the one hand, municipalities from 10,000 instead of 20,000 inhabitants, and on the other hand, to examine the authorisation of the countries, including the other communities. And when we look at what the countries have implemented since 2010, we see that the balance sheet is unfortunately not satisfactory. This has been fully implemented by Upper Austria, Salzburg, Tirol and Vorarlberg. You have to take Vienna out completely now, because Vienna has its own position there. In my opinion, Carinthia has given me the opportunity to examine community participation, but not the communities themselves. Lower Austria and Burgenland have remained completely inactive. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] With regard to this empowerment, Lower Austria and Burgenland have remained completely inactive. And with regard to the Styria, it is so that those communities that have received funds from the country can be examined, but only if it is also contractually defined. Why am I telling you that? – In order to see that an authorisation issued by the Federal legislator can be very different and far away from the possibility of finding comparable tests. That is why Mr Moser and I have already called in January for this to be re-adjusted, and have also tabled a request to that effect. We have not deliberately tabled this proposal today to allow it to be voted on immediately, but to be assigned to a committee because we want to give you the opportunity to really discuss it in depth. And I think the debate that has taken place in the last almost two hours has shown that there is a need for action. On the one hand, this request includes the possibility of the Court of Auditors to examine communities of less than 10,000 inhabitants, the reduction of participation from 50 to 25 percent, also a possibility of testing those legal entities who have public assets to manage or who have a public liability, on the other hand, a possibility to examine direct EU funding. They will be sent to Parliament in the next few days. We are already looking forward to a very intense and serious debate on transparency and control. Whatever needs to be done with this, of course, if the test competences are extended, then – and that has already been said today – is the corresponding equipment of the auditing accounting courts. The second area affected by this urgent question is, of course, the whole subject of federalism. We have been working on this for a very long time, not only here, but also generations of politicians in front of us. And I always wonder, What is it that makes it so impossible? If one gets into this debate, one comes sometime to the point where one is divided as centralists and the other as federalists, so to speak, and I think there must be a bridge. The problem we had in the previous debates was never the question: What is the criterion along which we are discussing? From my point of view, the criterion must be, for example, on the question of: What legislative competence should lie with the federal government and the country? And: Where does it make sense that there are federal regulations, and where does it make sense that this is regulated or implemented very regionally and very close to the small unit? We have to face this debate. Only then does it really make sense to hold this debate. Any commissions that say the same thing again, which was discussed at the Ö Convention and already in the years before, make no sense. The tension in this context is, for example, the debate that I regularly lead as a family speaker to the kindergarten. I have been making the request for years: Kindergarten, i.e. Elementary pedagogy, in federal competence! In the meantime, in all the committees in which we have discussed this, all political groups are saying: Yes, important request! Not only did I make the request, the NEOS have submitted the request that the SPÖ has submitted similar applications when it was in the opposition. ÖVP and FPÖ also say: Yes, that is quite a sensible request! But we still haven't managed to vote on it, and that for years. And I'm saying, Therefore, because the will is not there to sit down and say: We are federal legislators, in this case we are even federal constitutional legislators, federal competence lawmakers, and we are now in our federal role in serious negotiations with the countries! We all know the problem behind it. The reason is that you're all on country lists, that you're all hanging at the rock peak of your country leaders. That is why, in all these federalism debates, there is never any way forward because there are party interests here, and because there is above all the interests of individual members of the government, but also Members of Parliament, to settle with their own national leaders so that you can have a ticket again next time. You have to leave that behind once! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We're doing federal politics here, we're federal legislators here. And against this background, I would like to have a sensible federalism debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17259	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17280	Madam President. Mr. Minis-ter! High house! This is a good opportunity to deepen my previous speaker's thoughts immediately, because the problem should be that the relationship between the checks and balances, the relationship between countries and the federal government has somehow come into a disrepute. Today, less of these healthy checks and balances prevail than an unhealthy felt between these two levels of the state hierarchy, which one gets to feel again and again. Even today, we have had to delete a point from the agenda which has also affected the relationship between the federal government and countries, because obviously enough countries have exerted an influence, so that a constitutional law on the borders of district courts could not be adopted. But this is just an example of where countries are ruling everywhere and where there is a standstill, although everyone knows that there would have been something to do here. Of course, in the case of a specific example, there is a danger that in a few years numerous court proceedings will be null and void because the rules of jurisdiction have been void. But you just can't fix it. A small example of the fact that federalism has somehow come out of the joints. As my predecessor said, one is on the country list and here and there. One really has the feeling that there is a head of state who holds a federal government, and certain ministries obviously have an inheritance of certain countries. When I think of the Ministry of the Interior, I have to say: In the last ten years, this has always been someone from the Lower Austrian ÖVP! And similar. There are obviously leased power relationships, which are simply not changed. It goes about like this: If the cat is out of the house, the mice have Kirtag. And if we have a weak government – and we have now obviously already the last years – then the heads of state simply get more and more power and can do more and more of what they like. This is a problem that the Republic of Austria as a whole has! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The two government parties, in particular, are also suffering from this problem internally in their structure, because they are simply being filtered here and there. If I take the reasoning of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, why you cannot let the Hypo Alpe-Adria go into bankruptcy, then the first thing was: Because you can't let Carinthia go into bankruptcy! It was a country theme that, in reality, had to bear on your side as a reason why insolvency is not possible. In this context, I would like to say to you that Mr Hable was very right: If, as a reason for not being insolvent, you take the reason for not being able to pay housing aid or the like, then I have to They ask: Have you really slept the insolvency order, the execution regulations of the legislator of the last century? This instrument has been developed so far that even any normal operation can be continued. Every construction site could also be carried on very quickly at the Alpine. If you tell me this isn't the case with local authorities, I have to ask you: Why should this not happen to local authorities? Every farm is going on. The Alpine is all right. You'd do the same! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is pure fear-making. If you can continue a large-scale business under Austrian law, it is certainly also possible, under Austrian law, to continue a local authority if you extend this to the local authorities. So the legislator will not be so incapable either. There's something you can do. We now have excellent mass managers in this country who react very quickly. They will also be able to do such things. So: That is not the real reason why the housing aid could not be paid out, ladies and gentlemen. In Austrian history, of course, it was always so that, we say, we had weak governments. The first thing I learned was about Rudolf I, who was elected by the Electors – today they say, state princes – and was actually surprisingly strong. But he has not only reached political agreement, but has also recovered the wealth lost in the Interregnum. This has been called the so-called Revival Policy. Rei findicatio: the claim for ownership of Roman law. And if I hear now that the Finance Minister of Carinthia wants to recover the €500 million taken on behalf of the liability commission, then I can only say: I wish this government in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17354	Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17375	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! There was great excitement about Matthias Strolz's statement, there was structural corruption. I would like to remind you of the following, and it has already been mentioned here: The Court of Auditors' report states, inter alia, that there are 117 paying agencies in the area of family benefits. And I think we all remember what was, so to speak, the summits of these parallels of federal, national and municipal achievements, namely that a state captain – by chance in this case or perhaps not by chance again Jörg Haider – personally distributed the so-called “Haider-Hunderter” to families. – This is structural corruption! [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Second example, and we've heard it several times today, but it's about: [[Abg. Katzian: went to invalids!]] How do I hold my people by the mood as a prince of the country in times of recurring elections? That's a certain bread and games mentality. And that is nothing but structural corruption in my eyes! Now a comment on the speech contribution from the past as a replica to Matthias Strolz: Mr Colleague I'm sorry, Auer's not here now. He said we were NEOS late today with our urgent request and with the requests we have made. I do not know exactly how long Mr Auer has been sitting in the National Council, but it seems to me as if all of you here, especially you were late by the ÖVP and you from the SPÖ, when it comes to the issue of the division of competence between the federal government and countries. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] We had a Constitutional Convention, an Austrian Convention. The results were presented in 2005. We have ten years of results of the Constitutional Convention next year. And you're telling us NEOS, which we've only been here in Parliament for a few months and really want to change something, we're late?- Oh, my God! You're late! They have done nothing in the field of competence sharing for the last ten years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] And why? Mr Musiol is right about that. [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] I have experienced the discussion in the Family Committee. I have also submitted the application concerning federal competence in kindergarten and horticulture. What's going to happen to you? – The real constitution! [[Further call of the Abg. Fekter.]] And now you have to say: It is already bizarre if, in actual fact, to reform a Constitution or to reform a Constitution, a real constitution is opposed to a real constitution as an argument, why it is not possible to apply it. [[Abg. Fekter: Here are the centralists!]] Mrs. Musiol also correctly pointed out that the Federal legislator has a competence here. That is, in this discussion, which we have been conducting for years, where we know that it is not a goal if we have different quality criteria in all federal states, different sizes of groups, different care keys, we would have the competence to change something. But the real constitution fails. It is right, Mr Vice-Kanzler, that a federalism reform committee should be set up in the government programme. You have not answered our questions, because you have said that it is Parliament's responsibility to set it up, and it is also in the government programme. I think it's a bit interesting that it's in the government program. That is to say, it is also a Federal Government project. And if you say here as a Federal Government project, you want to have a federalism reform commission in Parliament, I wonder if you would not be able to do so on your part. The Austrian Convention was very probably launched by the Federal Government at the time. And I think we need to do something here urgently. Therefore, again – and we will do it again and again – we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17488	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17552	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17574	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to see where this debate is moving, namely towards federalism. And NEOS have just gone out as a centralist party. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger! As Vice-Citizen, I'll tell you: The kindergarten system is still decided in the communities and not here in Parliament, because the councils and the mayors have better control of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from ÖVP confess to federalism. And we also acknowledge that responsibility lies largely with the countries and with the communities. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] You are now having a federalism discussion here. Why are we discussing these urgent ones? Why has she been brought in? You write in the first sentence: “ Faced With Hypo Scandals ” And on the subject, you will write: “Emergency measures for financial control and consolidation to protect taxpayers from further budgetary disasters”. – And now we end up in a federalism reform debate! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to roll this up again: Why do we have this discussion here today? Why did NEOS make this urgent request? – Because there is a federal state that has entered into liability of over €24 billion – liability for high-risk transactions, for speculation transactions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Mr Podgorschek, you can't do that. But you've joined this game again. And that's why responsibility remains with the Freedom Party. It is a FPÖ disaster first rank, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! And for this disaster, taxpayers now have to stop their heads – thanks to the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It would be time for you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ – the first series is missing today – for FPÖ to publicly apologise to the Austrian population for this economic insanity, which was operated in Carinthia under the chief responsibility of a national leader of freedom and under the responsibility of financial representatives of freedom. [[new calls to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the liabilities of the federal states. This is now being discussed widely. I would like to say that the liability in the federal states is not automatically something bad. It is a question of the amount and risk for which a federal country is liable. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, the comparison makes us sure: My federal state Oberösterreich or head of state Sepp Pühringer has disclosed the liabilities of the country Oberösterreich on Monday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Upper Austria is liable with €9.36 billion. And more than half of them, that is, €5.3 billion, are solely liabilities for housing promotions. They are – quoted Pühringer – de facto risk-free! And if one compares this with the liabilities decided in Carinthia, then it is quite clear that: [[ongoing calls to the FPÖ]] Upper Austria does not even have the double liability of an annual budget. In Carinthia we are talking about the twelve-fold sum of an annual budget. And Upper Austria has assumed risk-free liability, while in Carinthia highly risky speculation transactions have been secured with these liabilities. Where we agree, ladies and gentlemen, is: This must never happen again in this republic! [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of NEOS representatives.]] Here again and again it is tried to show that these liabilities were actually away from Carinthia, so Haider, as the head of state who so to speak, took €800 million and founded the Future Fund. And the €24 billion in liabilities – at the time there were €20 billion – had never been that went to Bavaria. [[Call the ÖVP: such a shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the biggest nonsense you're trying to tell the Austrian population! That is simply wrong and wrong! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The liability has always been in our country: first in Carinthia and then at the Republic of Austria! The liability was always in our country. It is therefore clear that: There has been no alternative to emergency nationalization 2009, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hable, you have criticised this mail from SPÖ, but you have indirectly confirmed it with the liability. In my opinion, Mr Matznetter presented this completely correctly. Then: What happens when we send a federal state to the pleite? Yes Believe You really think the population won't feel that? – Well, she'll feel it! It is then necessary to reduce expenditure. Of course, this is about personnel expenditure, health care and kindergartens! So here's to say: We'll send a country in the pleite, then everything's good and beautiful!, it's wrong! That is not true, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! This is an eye-catching of the Austrian population! [[Calls to the Greens.]] It was done right. But true is: Of course, it will be a large part of the taxpayers to carry! But responsible for this are the insane liabilities that were decided in Carinthia under the FPÖ leadership at that time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] ==References== In March, the Minister of Finance – at a maximum speed, ladies and gentlemen – presented a very good solution as to how we can work out this disaster. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! It is not an institution solution, it is a form of company, a GmbH. What's the advantage? – Carinthia will have to participate with €500 million; this is agreed. There is a participation of the subordinate believers and the participation capital. And, of course, a participation of Bavaria is also true. These are the most important points as we can have the cheapest solution for taxpayers. That is why, Minister of Finance, thank you very much. What is now on the table is the best solution, and we will also implement this solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The green and blue representatives from Carinthia also say that. Mr. Holub and Mr. Landesrat Ragger took place on 14 April. March confirms that this is the best solution. And that's my opinion, too. The Minister of Finance will, he has explained in detail today, bring accompanying measures to the High House to ensure that something like this can no longer happen: uniform accounting, insolvency law for banks, liability limits and speculation bans for the federal states. This is also the case in the government programme. The Minister of Finance will ensure that the relevant government documents come into the house here, ladies and gentlemen. However, it will also be up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, whether you go with it or whether, as so often – even in the majority of the constitutions – you are making counter-claims that have nothing to do with the matter in itself. Here we will measure you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, by your voting behaviour, by your actions, as you last end up with these packages that are necessary so that something like that no longer happens. That's where we'll look at your fingers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Can you measure your signatures? Or doesn't that count with you?]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to mention this solution, which the Minister of Finance has put on the table at a maximum speed. It is now about quickly implementing this. I already have a final request to the FPÖ: If you do not apologize to the people for what the liberals have done in Carinthia, then at least you are acting out of moral responsibility. Mr. Exlandeshuptmann Dörfler is still sitting in the Federal Council, which from 2001 to 2013 belonged to the state government in Carinthia and has been the head of state for the last five years. There is also a moral obligation, ladies and gentlemen: If you're not apologizing, you're acting in this case: At least Mr Dörfler will leave the Federal Council!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17766	Before I give the floor to Mrs Gartelgruber, I say that Mr Neubauer, during my last presidency, called from his seat two hours ago to honourable Member Mayer: You sausage! He withdrew this with the expression of regret against me, and I therefore distance myself from giving him a call for order for it. I'll announce this. You are speaking, Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17793	Mr President. Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Mr Wöginger, I have to address your speech first and say: The best thing you've given here was another prayer of the same leader forever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] If someone has to apologize, this call would also be addressed to the ÖVP, because here water is always mixed with wine and there are constantly spreading untruths, including you. Her current action with the Taferls was really bad. And your child's weightings, which you have once again performed as so often today, are really embarrassing, because you know very well that this emergency stateization was really a night and fog action that has prepared a billion tomb for taxpayers. And the liability [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm for this: Let's set up a committee of inquiry! Let's examine everything! If then all the facts are on the table and if it is proven that we too have to bear responsibility, then I am happy to admit that too. And I do not think that we from our group want to do the same. But don't cheat on your responsibility and do it – you know exactly what I'm talking about now. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You don't need to interrupt me here now. Come on. You come here and talk to yourself! I'll tell you: We have, together with the other opposition groups, requested a committee of inquiry, and nearly 100 000 signatures have already been signed online, and if you ignore these 100 000 signatures, this will certainly be warranted by the population. The EU elections are coming, and you will see what you have of them. But now to the urgent request of the NEOS to which I have to say: This discussion is not new! We have already tried to discuss structural reforms and administrative reforms here more often, and also federalism reform. For years we have always heard the same phrases: We're going to take this! – But it's just lip confession, because it doesn't really happen in this direction. If, as I am, you know the political situation in Austria, you know why there is a standstill here, and we have heard this many times today: The respective government frightens the confrontation with the princes of the country, there is a constant power struggle between the federal government and countries! Unfortunately, it must be noted that the federal government – and in this case the Finance Ministers – usually attracts the shorter. It would be absolutely necessary for the benefit of Austria to finally take up reforms here. The list of financial errors in Austria – also in the countries – is long. This includes not only the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia, no, but also, as we have heard several times today, the financial scandal in Salzburg, where a The head of state with the citizens must have apologised for what she did almost mercilessly. And there were the BAWAG scandal, a crash at the Österreichische Volksbanken-AG and, what is often forgotten, problems with municipal credit, swap business of the city of Linz and residential money speculations. A small example from Tyrol: In an answer to a question in the country of Tyrol, the “Light into the dark of the Hypo Tirol: What did the Tyroleans hold for?", said Landeshuptmann Platter, said that there was no risk assessment for the €7.1 billion in 2011 to guarantee the liability of the state of Tyrol. So even the competent heads of state cannot properly assess the situation in their countries. The list of permanent scandals and Job Messages from the banking, federal and country finance sectors could continue for a long time, but the government parties still refuse structural reforms in terms of transparency and control. So you can say: The list of government tasks would be long. The first hundred days are over now. When I look at the machinations in Austria in the Federal Republic of Germany and in the countries, I know as a learned Austrian that there will not be much change in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17872	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e17894	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If we can get to hear the hypo story that we can hear every day, even every hour in twenty media, something positive, then the only fact is that we can see the many weaknesses in our system thanks to the hypo. Our task as a Parliament is to address these weaknesses. What is lived here as federalism, that they make one debt, as if there were no morning, without any sense of responsibility, namely the countries in part, and the Federation should stand and pay for it, that is not the federalism that we imagine. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone in this Chamber knows that we urgently need reforms, but I think it is the absolutely wrong way, just as it is going to be in the Styria when forced mergers are taking place from above, because one believes that the citizen is not enough to see what is necessary and what is not necessary. I would like the citizen to receive the full information, get full transparency about the finances, know how many debts his community has, know how many debts the country has, how many debts the outsourced companies have, and can decide on a real basis. This is the way we imagine: living democracy – and not going beyond it! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That the debt is already more than frightening, with €31,000 per person in employment, I think, that is also the case for each one of us. That is why I say that we do not have time, and we all need to work together to bring about a reform, a reform that has the future and where the citizens are involved. Mr Finanzminister, you have referred to harmonisation. I can tell you that you will enter open doors with us. Of course, we are like all This House's political groups for the harmonization of finances, for comparability. And, contrary to Mr Krainer's statement, there is a motion for a resolution, namely on the harmonisation and further development of budgetary law, which all opposition parties have supported, but unfortunately the government parties are not. So it is in this House that often everyone talks about the same thing, everyone wants the same thing, but if it comes to the vote, do not decide immediately. I would really like to ask you, Mr Finanzminister, to implement it as quickly as possible in your responsibilities, because this is important: Citizens need transparency, they need a real decision-making basis so that we can introduce reforms so that we can build an efficient, slim administration system in Austria. Today we have 27 percent more administration per capita than in Germany. That's not necessary! We know that we will need a lot of money in the areas of social, health, pensions in the next few years, and we need to save somewhere, we need to save urgently where we are concerned about administration. Administration must never be self-interest, but administration is exclusively service for the population, service for the citizens. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] Ladies and gentlemen, I put forward two motions for resolutions. The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is: Resolution of Deputies Ing. Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, on "Tax protection package: Lessons from the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria’ Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to link a comprehensive tax-payer protection package, which is intended in particular to make the following key points: constitutional debt brakes combined with a constitutional limitation of the tax and tax rate; entrepreneurship-like liability in the case of grossly negligent and culpable obligations for political function and mandate holders; insolvency law for banks; insolvency law for local authorities; simplifying the rules of supervision and concentration on material topics (not formalisms), and Simplification, further development and simplification of budgetary law’. I'm seeking approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18056	Mrs Ing. The motions for resolutions tabled by Dietrich are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18212	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18234	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! I would like to begin by thanking you for the answers that have been made. Over a few tracks I make a clear effort to answer, and I very much appreciate it. I am not happy with a reference to the Minister of Justice, because you will certainly meet them more often and know very well about their project. Nor am I happy with the reference to the Court of Auditors' auditing powers, that you say, well, the legislator is sitting there, then it will stop in Parliament. – Otherwise, the ÖVP and the SPÖ do not take it exactly with the separation between legislation and government. Therefore, one would not have to act as if it were always so strictly handled. Now to some speeches that have been made. Mr Wöginger has found that the urgent question is really about federalism. - Correctly recognized! It's about federalism and the way we live it. It's not a question – you didn't really recognize that – of abolishing it, but it's about the question: Can federal states, can communities pretend that they are not responsible for what they do, because in any case, in the back sits the covenant, which then stands for everything, if it goes wrong? It is precisely this: where decisions will be taken, the responsibility lies at the end of the day. And this is not the case today, because everyone knows, the covenant is just about to do so. This is also – Mr Krainer is not here now – the reason why the comparison with SPAR and the branch business is moving there, because there is a responsibility in the headquarters, and they have to stand straight for what the national directors are picking up. And so the Federation in Austria has to stand straight for what the countries are pudding, precisely because there is no insolvency right and those for their own salad do not have to stand straight. It has been said several times, especially by the ÖVP: What are you asking? That's what we do. But you're late. Talks are being held anyway. That is where we are talking, and there is a working group there, and there is a Commission. - Yeah, great! Now we're talking. I would remind you that the teachers' union was also discussed by the government for years, and there were 33 rounds of negotiations. This also applies to you when you wait for the pomp and the head to scream: Yeah, super, regulates us, finally sets us limits! Yes, please, covenant, come and save me from my own power! – This will not happen, you can talk for a long time, since you can conduct long negotiations. I wish you, Minister of Finance, that this is not happening to you, but many finance ministers as tigers have already entered the negotiations with the Land Princes – and have come out again as bedheads. I would like you to be more successful, but I fear that you will not be well. Finally, I miss my colleague Krainer, I really miss him: Yes, you can't use the twin tire to ride the pomp over the face!, he said. Subtext: I can't drive the head over the face with the twin tire. – But with the twin tire driving the citizen over the face and refusing to do so to those 95 000 who signed the petition. So there you are sovereign. I'd be glad if it were different. And now to those who said we're gonna do it. I'll go with you every bet: If we look at this again in a year, we will see that it has changed zero and nothing; the status will be the same as today. That's why it needed this urgent request to illustrate that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18288	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18309	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Lightenecker: Before, you had a blue tie, and now it is pink! What's going on?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You moved!]] - I've been working on it during the break. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I do not want to repeat everything that has been so done in the course of the discussion, but I would like to repeat one thing as regards the conduct of the EIA or one of the two government parties when it comes to control, namely: You, Mr Strolz, and the NEOS are calling for structural reforms. The fact is that these structural reforms have been called for for years. And we were on a very good path in the previous government. There was an Austrian convention that lasted a year and a half, from June 2003 to January 2005, where very good and great approaches were found. But these have never been implemented. Then we had the problem that with the 2006 election the government constellation changed. And now, for over seven years, we have a red and black government that is no longer interested in structural reforms. The interesting thing is: If federal states are acting on their own initiative, such as in Vorarlberg, for example, in many areas, and it is a matter of bringing transparency into certain reform proposals or legislative proposals, then one suddenly wants to know nothing about it. Why I address this now has the following reason: Since the financial scandal in Salzburg, the Vorarlberg state government and the Vorarlberger Landtag have also been very intensive in dealing with this issue in terms of the ban on speculation. Talks have also been held. In the Vorarlberger Landtag four parties sit, three are in opposition, the ÖVP has the absolute majority. One was on a very, very good way to anchor this speculation ban also in the state constitution. And now, probably in the course of the upcoming country elections in the autumn of this year, the ÖVP has decided to ban speculation in the alone, this morning in the legal committee of the Vorarlberger Landtag. But the ban on speculation is now suddenly no longer worth the paper on which it is written, because all the control possibilities of the land day have been removed or excluded. And that's exactly the way I blame the ÖVP: Whenever it is a matter of incorporating into a bill, or into a proposal, or whatever means of control, to strengthen the country's day as a control body, you draw more or less the tail, you say so beautifully in the mouth of the people, and you don't want to know anything about it anymore. And then there is an absolute majority whipping through, which is basically not worth the paper. There is already the question of whether you do not even want to rethink in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18365	The last speaker to speak was Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18387	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Good government! Ladies and gentlemen. I have now listened to this discussion over a long period of time, and so a little has been heard that on the one hand, the bad countries are guilty of being under-controlled, possibly even the municipalities cannot be controlled. But, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is not that simple. Why not? – Because in the countries there are parties again, and they are identical to the parties sitting here in Parliament. To break this down to Tyrol: With us in Tyrol there is a very strong ÖVP, a not too strong SPÖ, but thinking is just as it should not be. Today, we are discussing speculation bans, whether we should adopt them by means of draft law. We ourselves already had in the Tyrolean Landtag in 2008, ladies and gentlemen, 2008! – to submit a request for the following content – Mr President, I would like to quote it: ‘Proposal of Deputies Mag. Gerald Hausru.a. on the prohibition of speculation and risky taxation of taxpayers. The Tyrolean Landtag wants to decide: ,The Tyrolean Government is asked to ensure that existing funds from national companies are not taken into account on the path of risky speculation transactions. The State Government is also invited to work with the Federal Government for this purpose. 1. that all the necessary measures be taken without delay to ensure that local authorities, distributed legal entities, Austrian social security institutions (sickness telephones) and pension funds as well as companies subject to the control of the Court of Auditors are no longer allowed to carry out speculative transactions with tax money from now on (...)’ An application from 2008. – Now we write the year 2014, six years later, and the discussion is still similar from my point of view today. How did this request come about at the time, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, whom you have 40 percent in Tyrol, and thus almost the majority? What happened to the SPÖ in the coalition at that time? – This 2008 application was rejected and has not been approached. The EIA's colleague argued as follows: This initiative is not approached because it is not necessary to do so. – In 2008. That's how an initiative works. It is not therefore a matter of evil land, good land; evil church, bad church, but of this: How am I in control? Do I want this control, yes or no? There is a system of democracy that looks like this: Government – Opposition, and the question is: Does the government want to allow it to be controlled, or does it not want to? What is the government's position on control? Is control considered to be anti-locking, or is control also perceived as an opportunity to get better? Just as a Court of Auditors report basically helps and is not a bad report, because it may show errors et cetera. That's the system mistake I recognize. Simple: If you want to move on systematically, you have to say yes to control, you have to say: Yes, we are – no matter what level, community level, country level, federal level – for a ban on speculative transactions, we decide! But I do not need to break this down at country level, and I do not need to look for evil countries, because in the countries, once again, there are parties that are identical to the parties here in the House. So in short: You don't need to show each other the red cards or other cards. We need to do better! But I don't have the impression – and that's the terrifying thing – that you want to do better, because how does the situation look here and now? We are slowing down, refusing to be controlled, and do not recognize the control as an opportunity to get better. That is why the refusal to allow an investigation committee is completely incomprehensible from my point of view. If only one party has broken everything and Haider's fault, let's have control! Let's show it! A committee of inquiry dealing with the progress made in 2002 – where is the problem? Everything will be transparent, everything will be put on the table. So let's check! Why not? In any case, I place deeper reasons here, don't understand the whole thing, but it has nothing to do with whether an office, a community wants to be controlled or not. I mean, this is a question of dealing with each other, dealing with democracy and also a question of position: on the one hand, the government and, on the other hand, the opposition, which, of course, must control. Yes, what is the other task of the opposition? We are not the devotees of the rulers. It can't be. We are the ones who need to see that in the background reasonable drive is being driven so that the rulers get better. And if something can be controlled, then it must be controlled. Control is the basic business of the opposition, and that is true at local level. There, where I am mayor – Oh so, I just see, the light is shining a little bit. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] If you have to lead a community yourself as a mayor, you can't say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - I'm looking at this sporty. Control is necessary and important, and if it is shown how to make it better, it is gratifying and necessary. So don't close our eyes, we don't play games back and forth, but we say yes to control, to get better and agree to an investigation committee, and we don't continue playing Pingpong for all eternity! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18484	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18505	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! ‘hartlhaus.at’ – Who forgot this? [[The speaker holds up a ballpoint pen with the above lettering.]] – Let’s go to the House of Constitution! I believe that the urgent request of NEOS has not, as they have claimed, identified an acute problem, but rather an eternal problem that has just become acute once again and cannot be dealt with often enough. This is a good approach. I would like to start with Mr Spindelegger: Thank you very much for having so long in such difficult times, because you could have represented only the State Secretary. For the “press hour” – we have already had less joy or perhaps one another again –: You have emphasized there that now and finally and due to the experiences of Carinthia – suddenly everywhere the diabolic Carinthia is guilty, or even suitable to be taken as an occasion for some time to get a little better; we can then look at Lower Austria, and we will do it too – at least on the occasion of the Carinthian Land Liabilities you have called out there: But now there is the single ban on speculation! And today, here inside at least, less, you probably raise the pointing finger against any of the opposition parties that could have been available for the two-thirds majority at the time, but did not do so; either the liberals or the Greens. We have said from the outset that what was being negotiated here was never a ban on speculation, but exactly the license to continue speculating. That is why we did not agree, and that is the difference. I will now explain this to you in the example of Lower Austria. Lower Austria has – and this was also a debate at the beginning of the previous year, there was Lower Austrian election campaign, and yet one has come through with it – the claim from the housing loans, i.e. the funds that come back, actually bundled into wealth – so far nothing bad – and has done so. These are not my inventions, these are the exams of the Federal Court of Auditors that stand behind them. After a few years it has already been recorded that 1 billion € is gone, which was actually no longer catchable. [[Abg. Wheelers: 600 million are in the budget!]] – You may want to step back and disprove the Federal Court of Auditors. Finally, it turned out that it was almost €2 billion. Now we have to go back anyway, because we have anniversary soon – settle down with the Federal Court of Auditors, then you don't always have to cry in this unqualified way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Go there, they're here for Members! There you get a private body – even the ÖVP. Do it! Now back to the now € 2 billion, almost € 2 billion – you don't get that away. At that time, Mr. Landeshuptmann, with his Finance Council, who by the way, publicly directed the Court of Auditors, has just as much as Mr. Landeshuptmann of Lower Austria, who called the Court of Auditors “the pea-counter” – that’s how it looks! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] These are quotations from your uncle's captain. That is really the problem! And do you know how this hole came about? – Yes, you can spread your arms three more times: [[New call for the spread of the arms. Wheeler.]] Hole remains hole, 2 billion €, now maybe more. – Because in a completely irresponsible way in box constructions that are looking for the same, again over which bank? – You have still done well in the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, only after the election you have said something else in Lower Austria. – About the Hypo Landesbank, yes, wonderful, 2 billion euros have or do not have, is not a small thing, it should also involve a Lower Austrian ÖVP national councillor. Meditate, 2 billion €! [[Further calls of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And this wonderful speculation ban that you wanted to turn on us would have done what? – Nothing in this matter! The head of state of Lower Austria could have continued his fairy tales and his contaminants to the Court of Auditors, because it was not exactly foreseen that, as Mr Rossmann has said, it would have given a uniform and therefore uniform interpretation, material, legal, which is at all speculation and is therefore to be forbidden. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is about not only taking on too many loans and then again accusing them – that is folk school mathematics, this speculation concept is also put in place there. But there are more complicated, refined things. Even the ÖVP Lower Austria does this, unfortunately to the torment of taxpayers, that if you either pledge, sell or otherwise, you can hold on to money. If you see only the sums of money you can borrow with credit and pick up a speculation ban, then you have not recorded exactly what happened in Lower Austria, namely the housing loans to make the repayments in coin, in order to speculate on adventurous levels of construction in Ireland, at the bad banks in Ireland, and in box structures that seek the same. And that's not supposed to be speculation? – This would have been permitted by this so-called law or speculation ban, and therefore it was a license to continue speculate. And only because Mrs. Finanzminister, who is working hard – Mr Rossmann mentioned it – and did not want something completely different – that is, what we wanted. By the way, Mr President, you are actually against you; but at the time you were a clubman, you were the Herald of the head of state of Vorarlberg, who is actually a decent man, like many in Vorarlberg, because they can hold the money together better than others. Nevertheless, as far as federalism is concerned, he has a kind of superfluous positive attitude. He only needed to look further east to his colleagues that this is not a healthy attitude, for example to his party colleague in Lower Austria. Then, too, state captain Wallner would insist that this is not the case. And when you talk to him under four eyes, he confirms that too. But at that time it was different. You turned this off, the Minister did not enforce himself, and you wanted to ban us from doing so, which was a license to continue the work. Just because you're not persecuting against your national leaders. That must be done! [[Congratulations with Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] We have nothing against federalism, quite the contrary: A sound principle of subsidiarity, yes, but not always this maroting. Maroden by state princes who make life difficult for you. And your predecessor, Josef Pröll, he's up to some – let's get rid of this! – but at least not with the “fine” reforms. The point is that he failed with his own people, but Josef Pröll failed politically on his own uncle. Mrs Fekter was also unable to enforce herself, although otherwise she is very enforceable. And now you tell us in the press hour that everything will be different. To that end, I say: Great, applause from the speaker's desk! If you finally bring your country leaders to the wagon, we can leave. We're here. We're already in the locomotive. But your people are at the brake! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] That's why we're going to look at that. We've heard that often enough. I really wish you every success! We have also responded in the same way. I just don't believe it anymore! When we look where the SPÖ rules, it is often not better either: In Styria, it is claimed that there would be a ban on speculation. There is neither a law nor a decree. There is some Protocolal identification of the state government, where the term ‘speculation’ is not even included. They're doing what they want. They have foreign currency loans without numbers. They can't even calculate how high their loss potential is. But: the Styrian super-reform, something has a speculation ban. – Nothing, zero, cute, already again; but lies you down from the head of state. This is the Austrian real constitution: The Land Princes are riding you in front of you, though they are superior, but they are more forward than you are. So take off your Lasso, then you have us so that you can finally negotiate properly between reasonable negotiators in the open field. Then at some point it should not matter whether someone is from the federal government or from the country, because one finally wants to serve the thing that you always preach here. But then do it! - We're at it anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18609	Mr Rädler, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Mr Kogler! For the purpose of facilitation: Since you're not going to do the calls anymore, I'm going to speak. I would ask you to conform to the dignity of the House to go here once and apologise for your statement “government hooligans”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No word about that? - Okay. [[Abg. Singer: It was good!]] - Good, yeah? – So this shows that Mr. Kogler is actually a freeman’s driver, quite slowly jumped up the ghost of the “Haider Alpe-Adria” and is one of the arsonists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, you can imagine nothing more than the old election muff with which you moved through Lower Austria last year. You said that yourself. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What is this polemic?]] – Even if you look at the country elections without success. [[Abg. Kogler: Where are the 2 billion €?]] They have moved through Lower Austria and have explained what a problem these charges are for the country. However, they have kept silent that the Greens voted in favour of this charge in the Landtag. You forgot. [[Abg. Brosz: such a holler!]] You don't want to hear that anymore. - That's the first one. The second thing is you're operating with wrong numbers of a billion euros, maybe it's 2 billion euros; that's what you'll tell after a year. [[Abg. Kogler: That's what the Court of Auditors says!]] In reality, €600 million has been invested in the budget used for housing in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: We already subtracted them!]] And you already know that there has been an economic crisis since 2008, where the expected interest rate level for this charge has fallen. But that is not a matter of Lower Austria alone. [[Abg. Kogler: You had nothing to do, that was sin!]] And that you've missed something at all if you already know so much about Lower Austria – I can't read your green writing, “Rapid” probably means that, right? I don't like that. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We are here in the National Council!]] – So, by the way, have You probably also forget what was decided last week in Lower Austria with the votes of the Greens. [[Abg. Kogler: That was the 2 billion hole!]] - No! It was decided that there should be no speculation on high-risk bonds, derivatives and so on. But you didn't hear that. You should contact your colleague in Carinthia, Mr Holub, who would clearly tell you that you have to distance yourself from the liberals. You should also communicate with the Lower Austrian Greens before you come to the speaker's desk here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18787	Mr Rädler, I have not heard the statement by Mr Kogler, whom you have said, with the term ‘government hooligans’. I will, of course, look at the Stenographical Protocol and then respond accordingly to it. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a modern banking insolvency or rehabilitation right. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on insolvency law for local authorities. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Hable, colleagues on the adoption of a regulation pursuant to § 16 para. 1 F-VG. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on the convening of a federalism convention. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Dietrich, colleagues on the establishment of a government debt monitor. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, on "Tax protection package: Lessons from the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[17:55:35]] Short debate on the response to the question 163/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18908	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the 163/AB order number. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Steinbichler to open the debate as an applicant for the request. The speaking time is, as has been said, 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e18943	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and on the televisions! In the first weeks of your agriculture, environment and water management ministry, Mr Minister, you were known to have some funny sayings and sayings. Politics must also be fun, you said, and there I am with you. Only one thing you must have in your case already in the focus or, since you are also an enthusiastic hunter, have in the thread cross, namely the positive advancement of our brewing mountain farmers and honest farmers, who also provide an intact cultural landscape and excellent food on the alpine pastures every day. Unfortunately, what Austrian alpine farmers have been suffering for years by the national agricultural support administration is not fun. Thousands of alpine farmers were rightly reclaimed for alleged false land, and many also received an additional penalty called “punishment. ” However, not the farmers have determined the extent of the land, but the administrative agricultural administration by computer. The so-called alpine guide is also only a calculation tool that has not even been prescribed by law. Also, the mandatory digitisation of the land by the agricultural chambers, as required by the INVEKOS GIS Regulation, has not been concluded by law by means of its own decisions. From our point of view, therefore, the recovery and criminal decisions of the AMA built on non-proprietary land results. This is a structural error in the system that farmers are not responsible for. Rather, the legal protection of the farmers was even removed here. For all the errors of the agricultural administration, the innocent farmers must by no means come to the handcushion! This sick surface capture system has not worked from the beginning and to the present day. The system errors made must be rehabilitated by the authority, i.e. by the state. In the same way, the affected alpine farmers and the People's Procuratorate see an overall failure and a long-term failure in the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture, the AMA and the Chambers of Agriculture. The farmers forced to cooperate are not geometers. They are also not experts such as the Chambers or the AMA. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] As a new Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Minister, you have, among other things, inherited the almenchaus from your luckless predecessor, Berlakovich. You were made a minister by your party, the ÖVP, especially because you had the right citizenship in the inner party game, a Tyrolean birth certificate. No question, Tyrolean origin is nothing bad – I am also a proud Upper Austrian, there we have something in common – but with the inthronization as a minister you have very strongly connected and linked the solution of the almenchaus. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What exactly? - Ah, the pride!]] – A Tyrolean may also understand an alm better than a Burgenländer, which is likely to be accepted. [[Abg. Brunner: Please don't have a flat-rate setting!]] – Of course, no question as to the knowledge of the Burgenländer! The Alpine solution, Mr. Minister, for all the Austrian farmers you presented last week in Vienna, however, is not a complete solution once again. The fact that punishment for good-believers, brave farmers who have adhered to the system and who have not believed the promises of the ministry and the last minister in the end, and the Chambers, the AMA and the AMA, is already based on appropriate EU regulations. However, in the eyes of the innocent farmers, there are also recoveries of overpayments that are alleged to be paid for the purpose of land deviation. The ECJ's guidelines and judgments clearly state that in the case of state errors, for example, if a system is not manageable for years or the state has not complied with appropriate EU requirements for years, no recovery of too much money is permitted – but only by the way. The confirmations issued by the Chambers that, according to the best of knowledge and conscience, the true dimensions of the land were not recognizable by them as authorities for years are already ridiculous. Even if it may help the farmers, you will be free of the experts and co-responsibles for the years of disaster. That is why, Mr Minister, you have so far avoided embarrassingly addressing the question of liability in the Almchaos. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] This is exactly the crucial point that might make you sympathetic with the players in the agricultural administration, the AMA and the agricultural chambers. However, this camouflage and deception does not help farmers in any way, especially those where after years an area deviation of more than 10 or 20 percent has been determined by the AMA. Especially the problem of the thousands of Almauf drivers is further unresolved. The so-called old cases – these are the cases that have been dealt with legally – finally need a solution, for example by re-rolling or by re-establishing applications in the old state and re-decision. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] In view of these facts, you also have our parliamentary question 195/J of 4. In December, only partially or at least incompletely answered. In particular, questions 7, 16, 17 and 18 require a more accurate and legally correct answer by you as the competent Federal Minister. In question 15, you did not mention in the reply the sanctions so far demanded, but only the recovery. Thus, the true extent of the years of government failure has been veiled. As a former Director of Transparency in the General Secretariat of the EU Council of Ministers, you must be in favour of the merciless detection of the unsustainable Austrian states, the removal of them and the compensation of farmers. From our point of view, it would be good for you, as now responsible Minister of Agriculture and also the Republic of Austria, at last to do a pure table in the area of Almenchaos, to admit the mistakes of the authorities made and to give the farmers the full satisfaction and compensation. Mr Minister, you know, we were working together in this House at the time, when your former boss, who was later Commissioner Franz Fischler, said that this alm problem is an Austrian-specific situation. At that time, it has already introduced the CFP scheme, which has worked smoothly until 2005. I believe that this would clearly be the better solution for the future, especially in the case of a natural topic as difficult as in the case of the alms. If a farmer or a mangrove driver on his mountain pasture can keep his cattle, his goats and his sheep neat and that is calculated on a GVE basis, then that is, I think, all failed when we make complicated surface measurements, then an exchange with landscape elements, with stone cubes and, and, and. I believe, especially with regard to the Almen must be in the foreground of nature, the practical solution must be in the foreground, and I would also like to ask you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19037	For an opinion, the competent Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19059	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steinbichler! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank Mr Steinbichler very much for this question, because this gives me the opportunity to inform you on the current urgent question 101 days after taking office on the current development. I should like to stress once again that the work of the 28 000 alpine farmers in Austria seems to me important and indispensable to the cultural landscape of our country, our viable Austria, and the role of the alpine pastures, I can assure you, is very well aware and a heart concern to me. Mr Steinbichler! You know, I grew up on the alm. I saw my father the last time he died in Innsbruck, at the age of eight. So I can assure you that the pastures are in here with me, and the solution to this urgent problem is really a heart concern to me. [[the speaker makes a hand motion pointing towards the heart]] I therefore immediately, after taking up my duties as Minister for Agriculture, have dedicated myself to this alpine theme with great commitment and have found construction sites and problems in this area, which I would like to stress, but one cannot certainly speak of an "almchaos", since there are clear rules and rules for the identification and reference of the alpine feeding surfaces. And I emphasize that too, and I strongly represent this: We have the best alpine development in the world in Austria. I immediately set up a Taskforce Alm, with representatives of the affected federal states, the Chambers of Agriculture, the agricultural market Austria and the working group on mining issues, for the preparation of solutions related to the Alpine area reference system. ==References== December, a few days after I took office, under my chairmanship, was the first time, and after the fifth meeting on 19 December. In March, first results could be presented on how this problem can be decontaminated – I deliberately say “intensification” and not “solved”. To this end, I would like to make a brief mention of the main points: By confirming the Chamber of Agriculture about proper digitization, where the farmer was unable to see a derogation, many cases may actually be allowed to waive the sanctions. The actual assessment of these confirmations and the other claims and evidence that the applicant is not to blame shall be carried out in the context of a case-by-case examination in accordance with EU law and shall currently be carried out. For the application year 2014, the agricultural market Austria shall determine the alpine reference areas. This will also help to increase legal certainty for alpine farmers. At the beginning of this year, 40 percent of the alm-polygon areas have been covered, and the corresponding definitive reference areas have been presented in the meantime, thus increasing legal certainty for alm operators. A new alpine model will be used for the new funding period from 2015. The individual farm premium is compacted to 20 percent of the alpine feeding area by means of a reduction factor. As a result, only every fifth hectare of the eligible alpine area applied for is covered by payment entitlements. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Then it's meaty how big the alm is!]] With the help of this compression model, sanctions can therefore be largely avoided in case of any deviations – and that was my main concern in this context – as non-payment-free alm feed areas are not included for the calculation of the actual deviation. This is a model which, together with the European Commission, with the cabinet of the Commissioner for Agriculture and with the Directorate-General for Agriculture, was agreed before Christmas. In addition, a paired premium, depending on the animals driven up on the pasture, is granted in feed-consuming livestock units. In concrete terms, a premium rate of €62 per RGVE for cows and a premium rate of €31 per RGVE for other cattle, sheep and goats is provided for. This model of the future is included in the Market Rules Act Novelle, which I sent last week for review. I can announce to you today, after being criticized that the assessment period is too short, that in agreement with our coalition partner, Mr Preiner, we also have the assessment period until the 25. April have been extended so that you are able to study in depth the five or six pages of this novel. To answer the question: The answer to the question has been received in writing. I would like to point out in the short term – 23 individual questions have been asked – that: The measures required or encouraged by EU institutions to improve the area identification system and to manage the funding management are being implemented. In this context, I would like to point out, for example, the digitisation of the land that has been mandatory since 2010. In addition, further steps have been taken to make the procedures easier and safer. In the field of pastures, the agricultural market Austria has carried out an on-screen surface plausibility for 2013, and from 2014 onwards, the Alpine reference area will be centrally established through the agricultural market Austria. In the context of the response, I would like to address the request for recovery. The total amount of recoveries in the period 2005 to 2012 is €26 million for around 18 000 businesses – this is included in the request response facility. In this context, however, I would also like to point out that in the context of the total amount of the eight-year single farm premium paid during this period, the amount of €5.6 billion must be seen. Then we are with the recoveries made during this time – not exclusively on the alpine areas – in the promille range of 0.05 percent. In the field of public transport, for example, where we have planned or implemented recoveries to a much lower extent, to a value of €1.2 million, we must also see this in relation to the €3.5 billion paid out in these seven years. This is because we are at a recovery rate of 0.03 percent. The possible abolition of sanctions must be carried out in the context of a case-by-case assessment, which I have already stressed. I am confident that we will be able to avert much of the sanctions with the procedure we have now chosen. I assume a refund rate of 80 to 90 percent. However, if sanctions are still being imposed, they will be offset, if possible, by simultaneous payouts. It is also clear that payments paid for non-existent and non-existent areas must be reimbursed. To sum up, I would like to say that the measures and solutions under consideration had to be taken to ensure compatibility with the existing EU legal framework. It was also necessary to take into account, as far as possible, the prevention of charges. Under these premises, it was also not possible to issue the general resolution desired by various sides. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19119	In the debate, Mr Preiner was the first to speak. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is 5 minutes from now on. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19143	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In the government programme, the social-democratic manuscript is anchored, also on the subject of solving the problem of almens and establishing areas that are appropriate for practice, because, in the course of the government negotiations, we have recognised that there is a need for action. I am glad that the Task Force Alm has finally started its work on this. I agree with the Minister: There is no Almenchaos. The alm farmers work with every weather, trying to manage the pastures as best as possible. I thank you very much for your work in the sense of Austrian agriculture, but also in the sense of tourism – a warm thank you! What is it about at the end of the day? – Quite clearly: In order to ensure fair distribution of the funding, to preserve the rural family farms, including the preservation of small-structured farms in the alpine area, the protection of the livelihoods also in alpine areas. From income one must be able to live – this is a central issue, a central requirement that we as social democrats have. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The alm farmers – I mentioned earlier – not only contribute a lot to maintaining the landscape, but also contribute a lot to sustainable tourism in the alpine areas. The question raised by Mr Steinbichler on the problem of pastures was answered in part by the Minister, in my view, precisely, partly globally. In terms of pasture solution and practical area determination, it is important to us that legal certainty is given to the farmers concerned, both now and in the future. Farmers must not be left in the rain. A solution is urgently necessary and extremely overdue because of the fact that the problem has been known for many years. The former minister called the SOKO Alm, from the current Minister, the Taskforce Alm. However, the answer to this question also shows that more than 18 300 farms have been objected to. This corresponds to a recovery sum of approximately €26 million, as the Minister has also done. Let me now quote a paragraph from the SOKO Alm report, which, in my opinion, is very close to the core of the problem: “The BMLFUW has commissioned the AMA in conjunction with the agricultural chambers with the acquisition of the pastures, with the independent INVEKOS agents in the agricultural chambers at the level of the district, in cooperation with the farmers. This, as it turned out later, created potential conflicts of interest among these agents in individual cases, because they on the one hand carried out acts of execution (), but on the other hand carried out interest representation tasks in a customary manner.” This quote, ladies and gentlemen, speaks for itself. But what is it about now for the future? – There should be less room for uncertainty and ambiguity in the future. For the current procedures 2009 to 2013 it is expected that around 80 to 90 percent of alm operators affected by return or penalty payments will be free of sanctions. I hope that this is also to be kept within the framework of individual case-by-case assessment. However, it is also essential that, in the sense of farmers, a fair solution should be found. Those mountain farmers who have completed and calculated their requests for support from experts and experts should not have to repay the grants received which were subsequently found to be incorrect. They must be carried by the competent ministry. Then: These applications have been made in good faith and under the advice of experts and experts. It must not be necessary for those concerned to stay on the track and pay for it. There is still a natural need to negotiate the regulations from 2015 on the new alpine model. It is also essential for the future that a solution is found which provides legal certainty to all parties involved, also transparency is important and necessary, and in this area our responsible Minister for Agriculture has a lot of experience from his previous job in the EU. However, transparency, timely information and partnership work between the Ministry and Parliament are also required. I therefore seek a more intensive partnership between the Ministry and the coalition partner for the future. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Finally, I would like to ask two questions: The rural development programme 2014 to 2020 has already been decided. When was the decision made and by whom? And what do we need to have a committee on this? In addition, the Minister has also raised the market order today. This is an important law because it is sustainable by €4.9 billion direct payments from the EU, to 100 percent financed by the EU, without co-financing by the nation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19183	Mr President, this is a slightly longer final sentence; You've been over for a minute!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19198	It is important that the coalition partner has time to deal with matter objectively and in terms of content. In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19236	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19259	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The system of alms capture has naturally developed into a critical point in recent years, where there are questions and there is an urgent need for answers. From my point of view, the system has just become obsolete. There are three reasons for this – one has to question this too –: that theory and living practice have evolved; that there have been scopes for interpretation in the current or past system, which have been used differently; and that the recording methods are different today with new technology than before – today we do not come around digitization. [[Abg. Steinbichler: (with both hands indicating a span) Yes, so far!]] The fact is that there are sanctions and repayments through this system, and we need to find a way as quickly as possible to bring about a solution for the future in the almen question. We can and must send to the farmers concerned – currently 18 309 farms with 26 million euros in recoveries – law and justice. In the SOKO Alm has laid the foundations – it has reached the end of 2013 – to find a way out of the difficult situation. Federal Minister Rupprechter immediately after his appointment on 23. December 2013 the Task Force Alm set up with representatives of the countries, agricultural councils, ministries, the AMA, the agricultural chambers and other experts. The fact is that within a short time and as promised a first solution, our Federal Minister has taken the path in the right direction. What is there to consider, and what do we need to do? – First, we have to resolve the cases between 2009 and 2013; second, we have to resolve the year 2014 currently; and third, we have to present a solution for the future. Over 10,000 confirmations have been sent to the AMA, cases in which the Chambers and the farmers have worked together and according to the instructions of the AMA and have worked out it according to best knowledge and conscience. They now object. In this way, it will be possible to elucidate a large part of the sanctions or to exempt cases of sanctions. For 2014 the AMA will determine the areas. After that there will be a plausibility test, the final area will be determined by the AMA and used as a basis. What happens to the remaining cases or cases that are difficult to solve? – There can – and the Federal Minister has already done so – be no general resolution. Every case is carefully checked, all cases. As a Tyrolean representative, especially the theme of Almaufdriver is very, very important to me, because it concerns farms which have no influence on the alpine areas. We must work intensively to ensure that we do not punish these Almauf drivers in addition. There will be a life assurance fund for those cases which are difficult to solve. This is where the countries have the opportunity to elucidate difficult cases. In addition – we live in a rule of law – it is also possible to come to justice. For the year 2015, the Federal Minister presented a new system. This foresees that only 20 percent of the actual alpine area will be used for the operating premium. This allows for discretion for animal-related promotions, but also problems with land deviations can be solved. With a so-called compaction model, 80 percent of the room is created, which also provides legal certainty for farmers. One thing is very clear and important: At present, the alpine guide is the basis, and this alpine guide is intended to be simplified and more practical. The fact is, Federal Minister Rupprechter has taken over a difficult heritage with the problem of the pasture. But fact is also, Federal Minister Rupprechter has dealt with the problem of pastures quickly and with a lot of elan, ambition and use and has brought it on a path to a legally feasible solution. Not debt allocations solve a problem, but this complex matter of Almen can only be solved with professional competence and cooperation of all parties involved. Our pastures are valuable. I think everyone here in this house is worth a nice, well-kept alm and everyone feels comfortable on such an alm. We also need to create the framework conditions so that our farmers can continue to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19304	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19325	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Gahr, Mr Preiner, what do you think about a farmer who listens today when you talk out there? – He will think: That must not be true! Everyone is talking about how valuable and important the pastures are, that they must be preserved for tourism, that agriculture must be preserved. – However, there is still no solution in this area. The farmers still don't know... [[Abg. Gahr: There are first solutions, Mr Cot. That's all we said!]] Mr. Gahr, please, if you want to come to the office at the Minister's office, you need to keep talking like this and praise the Minister. But there are big problems. Mr Preiner said there was no almchaos. The Minister has said that we have 28 000 mountain farmers, and 18 000 farms are concerned. Now, of course, one can say that this is not a chaos, that is simply the case; two thirds of the farms have happened, because errors have happened. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Catastrophe!]] I also defend myself against something that I noticed today. Minister, your Christian values: You're talking about a general resolution you can't give. Yeah, who can't you give them to? Mr Gahr also said this: There can be no general resolution. We're talking about a system mistake here. They have not given the farmers the General Resolution, but They have so far given them to the AMA, the Chambers of Agriculture and their own ministry. I would have expected on behalf of the alm farmers that anyone would leave the Chamber of Agriculture – or you as Minister – and apologize for this blatant system error, which affects two thirds of the alm farmers, and assume responsibility. That's what we expected! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, representatives of the Stronach team and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I don't want to quote from the letters. Mr Gahr has already mentioned this: There are farms that do not even influence the surface; they only drive cattle on the pasture of someone else. They have no access to the surface, but they are also punished. And we are not talking about sanctions – it is nice to try to get rid of the sanctions – but we are talking about recoveries from 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, recoveries for things that farmers are not responsible for. Thank you, Minister, you have been so kind and, unlike your predecessors, have made a little more transparent use and presented us with the submissions on the SOKO Alm and the results. There is clearly the role of the farmer in determining the areas to which it is concerned – that is actually destructive, and I advise everyone to take this report from the SOKO Alm –: “The participation of the farmer is in the alpine guide” – which then shows these areas – “not mentioned at any point, let alone regulated.” Nor does the farmer have any opportunity to comment in this area. How can we say from someone who cannot help, who cannot deliver an opinion that is subject to the High Authority – in 2007, 2008 and 2009 – that he has done something wrong? I would like to mention the following, so that the spectators who are not of the rural population can understand it in some way: In 2007, the alpine area is indicated, with the participation of the board, with the blessing of the agricultural market Austria; in 2008 a inspector comes and establishes an area that differs from what was stated; in 2009 a inspector returns and sets a different area than the inspector from 2008; 2009 comes another system; in 2010 the next inspector comes and identifies another area – everything in high-level administration of ministry, AMA and agro-chambers. And in this case, the farmer is blasphemous. There needs to be found a solution! It's nice to find a regulation for the future that allows for greater discretion in control, because we all know it's difficult, but we can't say now: What has been so far – sponge over it! Farmers should not be allowed to stand in the rain – that is what ÖVP and SPÖ representatives always show – and they are so valuable to Austria. - That's exactly what happens now. We are putting away sanctions in some cases, but the recoveries are far from gone, although farmers in many areas cannot do so at all. That is why I am looking again – not for a general resolution; that is not what we are calling for – to clarify the responsibility for this disaster, especially with regard to the administrative administration, primarily to the ministry. Although you have just been in front of it recently, your predecessor has basically slept for four years – I don't like that – because this problem has been known since 2009. In my opinion, he is responsible for this negligence that has happened. I really want you not to go to the agenda and say that from 2015, everything will be better. We have faced countless cases, namely 18 000 out of 28 000; two thirds of the farms are faced with sanctions or recoveries – not only for alpine areas but also for home operations. This should not be sprung up, there should be a clear separation. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] One final sentence: Mr Minister, once again I wish that someone from an authority assumes responsibility and that they do not always deal with farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19396	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19419	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Jannach, as I believe, has explained very well and well, in particular the facts speak for themselves. It was actually one of the biggest agricultural scandals that the last minister or minister had to answer, so you have to say the right thing to do. This almen chaos was an expression of a policy to put the head in the sand. Finally, the criticism of the European Commission, which existed for a long time because of similar occasions that have never been corrected, has become striking. Now is the question of how to proceed. You're right, the first hundred days are over, it's 101. And during the doctor's round, she chews on her fingernails. They started very, very ambitious in this causa, which was undoubtedly received very positively, also by us, also by me personally. But I would like to tell you now what this answer actually shows. I asked a similar question, which was answered in June 2013 by then Minister Berlakovich. As of April 2013, 12 000 businesses were affected, and there were repayments of € 10 million. More than doublings have occurred in eight months, and the number of companies concerned has also doubled. – You have to imagine that! You have sent a reply to Mr Steinbichler that you are in the process of resolving this, but in fact the recoveries have increased, and there are actually two thirds of the farms affected. – Since not talking about chaos, it is courageous, very courageous! As regards the 2015 considerations: As far as I can say that without a detailed check, I think this is very wise. We have put forward a request, and we can also do this together here in the House, namely with the amendment of the Market Regulation Act. We can also apply the compression solution retroactively for the last three years, namely the operating premiums granted from 2005 onwards, to the compressed area – as you suggest. We can still decide this in the house. From my point of view, that would be the final solution, and then you would have to be able to present a table in a few months, which shows: Perhaps 200 farms are affected, the repayment claims amount to €3 million. So that there is a clear need for renovation is simply the result of this table. We will continue to stick to the subject. A little more important, Minister of State: You have today given a press conference on rural development. You have today acted as if this programme were final and is in favour of being tabled in Brussels. I would like to appeal once again to your handshake quality, which you showed very seriously at the beginning. They promised us in the first Committee on Agriculture in February and they also assured us that we will be taken seriously with our concerns and that we will be in the next committee, which took place on 3 March. April will take place, be fully informed about this programme and will also discuss content, up to a relevant decision-making process. You promised us that this programme would be available at the earliest after the Council of Ministers on 8 May. It will be submitted in Brussels on 4 April. Today, there was this Hauruck and Husch-Puff action, fast to the press, and two days ago you invited us to look at your press paper today during the plenary. – Thank you, Minister, but this is not a good style! That is how you should not deal with parliamentarianism, Mr Federal Minister, because you must take your own nose! You told me quite clearly in an answer to a question, we have rights of participation and we are invited to participate. In this connection, I would like to remind you of the answer I made on 12 November. You've received from you on February of this year. You have said that we can participate in both the Agriculture Committee and the § 7 Commission under § 8 of the Agricultural Law – I quote from this question answer –: “As the political parties represented in the National Council send representatives to the §7 Commission, a participation is guaranteed.” What is fact? – We Greens had to apply for an extraordinary meeting so that this §-7-Commission had at all taken place on 11 November. March. Our representative there, Dipl.-Ing. Richard Hubmann, has tabled a 22-point request, which has not even been discussed there and has not been voted on in the final analysis. The President of the Commission – he is responsible and he is a ministerial official – has prevented this vote. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Mr. Federal Minister, you need an explanation! We will still have to negotiate this intensively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19480	The next item is the executive club "Ing". Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19502	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Mr Minister, you are right, you should not speak of an almen chaos; a agricultural concept, as I believe, is much better: What has been done there is a miscarriage of bureaucracy, because people who obviously have no idea at all had no access to it have developed a system that is completely unacceptable. Mr Berlakovich will probably go into history as one of those ministers who is not only responsible for bee dying but also for farmers' death. Ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP cannot take responsibility, not the Ministry, nor the AMA. I was there once, I had the dubious pleasure of controlling the AMA with its inspector from the Ministry of Alpine Spaces. The two have defined and disputed how much percentage must be reduced precisely. I believe that a system in which the inspectors disagree, as they have been applied, is totally unacceptable to allow farmers to estimate the area. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of FPÖ and NEOS as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I'm going so far, to say, probably even the goal was to get the money back from the farmers. Let us create some rules that farmers cannot use all the resources at all, but let us get back a part of it again! Mr Minister, I think it is high time to apologise to the farmers, and I am also convinced that a general amnesty, the granting of a mistake, a system mistake would be the right way. How do the farmers get to pay for a system that is designed by anyone who has no idea what goes completely beyond the reality?- Oh, my God! In order to present this more understandable: One estimates the area and says how much of it is reduced pasture area. That, ladies, that's what I'm looking for. and gentlemen, look in May, in June completely different from in September, there is a completely different picture. Depending on the season, there are different results. I wonder, How can anyone who has only a spark of knowledge of matter put up such a system according to best knowledge and conscience? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have the impression at all that it is a matter of rationalising the farm workplace, but of establishing a control system that grows from day to day. There will be more and more people controlling the farmers, but fewer and fewer farmers on the other side. We stand for a clear red tape reduction, for a simple system. Mr Steinbichler has already mentioned this: GVE per pasture area, reduces according to altitude, then you know how much hectares you need about – a simple, clear and comprehensible system with little bureaucracy! Farmers don't want this bureaucracy anymore, and they can't do it either. Because of this mistake, I even go so far to say: Normally, an official charge would be due for all those who have broken it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19569	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:41:40]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19590	I will resume the negotiations on item 11 of the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19615	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Before I come to the Court of Auditors' report on the banking package, I would like to take a brief look at the requests made and voted in the context of the urgent question, as they were a missed opportunity to show a missed chance of SPÖ and ÖVP that, when they are going in the right direction, they also go along and do not think Party-politically. We have voted on three applications – banking insolvency law, insolvency law for federal states and modern accounting systems – which we have already brought in several times and against which you have always voted. At the last meeting, you yourself made such requests, and we went along with them. Today we repeat our requests, and you do not agree. So depending on whether the request comes from you or from us, you agree with yes and once with No. That's a shame. This is an old party policy and hopefully has no future here in this House. The Court of Auditors report on the banking package. Thank you, President of the Court of Auditors, for the excellent report you and your staff. He's very interesting. Even more interesting – I hope you do not take it badly – was the discussion in the Court of Auditors Committee. Why? – Because we had information for the first time that could also tell us about the Hypo Alpe-Adria complex. The head of the financial procuratorship, Mr. Peschorn, and also the bank expert, financial market expert Lejsek from the Ministry of Finance, have answered our questions in a surprising way. It was about why 450 million participation capital was paid to the Hypo Alpe-Adria without further examination in June 2010. The answer was: Because the basis of decision is already available at the time of the so-called emergency nationalization. Classical follow-up question: What basis did we have at the time of emergency nationalization? Interesting people came to see it. The 2009 National Bank report, which was completed three weeks before, was apparently not on the negotiating table. - Amazing. Then we asked: What opinions did you have in the direction of insolvency? The gentlemen answered us: Well, that wasn't a real opinion, but a few numbers are on the table that somehow suggested that insolvency would be very bad. But they have explicitly said: We can't call that an opinion. We have not found out anything about further opinions. That is to say, it is completely open, on the basis of which decision-making was based this so-called emergency nationalization. There was no legal counsel either. The Bayern are marching with international lawyers. The only legal adviser to the Republic, who was nearby, to the Financial Procuratorate, says she was on the decisive night from 13 to 14. Not at the end of December. That is to say, the negotiations were apparently conducted without legal advice, so we have experienced. Then the crucial question: Who really sat at the negotiating table in this final round of negotiations? We have only been told that the negotiators were then Finance Minister Pröll and State Secretary arbitrators. But who else? The result reads a little like Champions League against Regionalliga, a very one-sided result in favour of Bavaria, which leads to the European Commission finding that it was so bad that the Austrian State actually made aid to the Bavarian Landesbank. Other questions, of course, were obvious, we also wanted to get further information, such as the former Finance Minister Pröll, State Secretary Arbitrator, Governor Novotny, but the charge of all these persons was rejected by the majority of SPÖ and ÖVP. I'm wondering, How do you explain to the citizens outside that you are doing this? You don't want an investigation committee, you wanted to take out the online statement of support in the petition committee – now it's still online – and you're preventing further statements from being made on the Court of Auditors. How do you explain this? To conclude: This Committee of the Court of Auditors has shown how generous an investigative committee can be if we have the opportunity to ask, to agree to witnesses who are under the obligation of truth and to request the relevant files. A government commission proposed does not have all these legal instruments. It's meant well, but it's completely pointless in the matter. Therefore my appeal to SPÖ and ÖVP: Let us carry out the surveys in the Court of Auditors. Call on your parliamentary heart! We need this sub- research and we also need it in the investigation committee. The citizens will thank you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19684	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19734	The quota is not worse than the others. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the number-legasthenia at SPÖ. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Eight greens, not five! Nine!]] You can't be surprised if they don't recognize a hypo hole, but only the shark. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Mr Jarolim: Mr President, however, has not laughed very much, Mr President.]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors, thank you very much for your report on the banking package. We had a brief opportunity in the debate on this subject, and now there is a compressed presentation of the Minutes. This will also become important, even though the so-called steam is just a little outside here because of other absences. This may even be very useful so that we can bring everything to a good record, because it cannot or may not be logged in the Court of Auditors. We would have needed a majority to do this again, but it is difficult for reasonable things to organize a majority. They organize the majority – and this will be the main point – only to cover up, conceal, delay and prevent. Otherwise, and I take this one point again briefly, it is impossible to explain, just like the honourable Member... [[Abg. Krainer:... cursing and criticizing!]] That's no reproach, that's just the indication that the majority in the house – much more you're no more than just – conceals, conceals, delays and prevents. I can tell you exactly what this Court of Auditors report means about the bank package. I may just take out an example by which you can see this very well: Mr Ex-Federal Minister Josef Pröll will be prevented by a limited majority – responsible for red and black – is prevented. Maybe he wants to come, I'll call him and ask him. We had that before, that witnesses in the committee wanted, but that prevented the majority of governments from doing so. It is not possible to question the chief responsible, ex-minister Josef Pröll, even if it is about the deposit of the first participation capital, at least 900 million, and that is the main subject of this bank report, the participation capital. He can't be heard. I think this is immense, and you will have to explain to the public why ex-minister Pröll cannot be heard, who bears the main political responsibility for the 900 million tax money decided on and actually transferred in December 2008 - to a bank in which the money was clearly condemned to ruin at the time because the whole bank was sentenced to ruin! The government has ordered an opinion, in which the destruction was swept away for a few months. Hardly has the competition commission, for which you have had this opinion been manipulated, said Austria go, was it so that the same note bank has said, unfortunately now the findings look a bit different, now the bank is not healthy. That's a bad luck, though. All these are the processes to be checked. This is not a reproach, Mr Krainer, but a very noble finding, as you have to say, in the process you are responsible for, why no one at all understands why it is precisely social democracy that defends such a, not only market-economy penetrant, but also, above all, a socially unfair approach. You have given your social conscience to the wardrobe, and that's why you probably delivered a motive with this cover-up action, because otherwise it will not be explained. It is extremely unsocial to throw a broken bank down first 900 million, especially since it was clear that the money will no longer come back – I will then prove everything to you, with the famous mail traffic and so on, everything appropriate to this note bank report – and to undergo an emergency nationalization a year later. With this action and the “Notification” one year later – under quotation marks, it is now clear that: Nationalization without need – have It lowers as much money as it has never happened anywhere in Austria. All previous scandals, from AKH about Eurofighter purchase, flyer plus lubrication, Telekom lubrication, all this is a small thing about what you have to do here. There's nothing about that. The starting point was the bank package, the report is available. The starting point was originally a good thing, we wanted this shield, which we have already argued today. We also had half a law, it was not good, but better than nothing. The audit has failed, and the audit of the Court of Auditors has subsequently decided to examine the package of banks unanimously. The 2012 report is now available. We have fought for two years to allow this to be negotiated at all. When we finally agreed that we are starting with the witnesses of the financial procuratorship, who thankfully you have still proposed – I have to blame you anyway – but also with Mr Liebscher of the FIMBAG, who is the turning and fishing point of this matter, who – or at least his institution – has, moreover, got away quite badly, what affected the control of our tax money in the banks, not only in the mortgage, has almost nothing happened. [[towards SPÖ]] The strong criticism of the Court of Auditors was on the table. But there were still several witnesses, there was also the Ministry of Finance with head of section Lejsek, who had to serve under Pröll at the time, who had to represent the whole of the semester who had received the witness survey, who had expressly and regularly talked out to the National Bank, because it was probably true. He said that the 900 million have been transferred because the central bank has sent this comical opinion because the central bank has said that this is system-relevant, because the central bank has said there will soon be profits, because the central bank has declared it plausible, although the same central bank has already had ten reports in its trustee that the bank is broken, that money laundering is done in great style, there is a risk that there will be ten violations of the banking law per audit. Everyone should have known that you should have listened only to what we have already worked out in the Banking Investigation Committee, what we have even made public. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Podgorschek.]] That's why you can read all this today, that doesn't disappear. The work of Mr Rossmann and myself, who can be read in the APA – and we do not even need the minutes of the committee – would result in you never being allowed to do so in the future. That alone proves – and that's why the people are asking, just now I've been asked by a journalist why this issue is going through the ceiling; also with the petition, I'm going to come right on it – that it's completely understandable that there is a cascade of misjudgments that has washed. This is not just about Jörg Haider. Yeah, that's where it all started. [[Abg. Darabos: They were themselves for the establishment solution!]] Yes, of course, Mr Darabos, also for you to co-write, we are of course in favour of getting back, on the one hand, as much as possible from the lazy loans, from the dirty real estate business, from the lost yachts and, above all, from other mafia shops – I wish you much luck. That's this intrusion, which has something to do with a reasonable Bad Bank, so you've always talked about it. But that's a lot too late, all the experts say. We would have saved ourselves two or three billion if we had done this years ago. [[Abg. Krainer: That doesn't say an expert! No expert says that! None!]] That's what we said. The second part is that there should be nothing to prevent us from taking those unreasonable, non-protective investors into the duty to let you run social democrats. That is why you have such a problem and that is why you are probably against a U-committee. You run the millionaires who have invested, you run the funds, you run the banks, although you constantly place the opposite. That's the problem. Ask yourself these questions and links You're not so incompetent in between! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last: That'll be all right. We have started with this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. The referral request is completely correct. Stand by! Ex-minister Pröll is not supposed to be heard, is to be hidden. - Stand by! The note bank should not be heard, although it is central to the charge, addressed by the witnesses you have admitted, but must not be examined further. - Stand by! It won't help you anything. There will be a tapet on the investigation committee, and we will continue to follow it there. If Mr Spindelegger and Mr Mitterlehner – of which I have still held quite a lot, but now this has also happened to me – are discrediting the U Committee in the way that on the verge of a Council of Ministers meeting as executive to this Parliament, the legislative and the supreme control body of the Republic, they are all of us here for strange people, because we want a U-committee that devours summaries, I must ask you: Did you hear anything like that? – This is the lowest point of the debate. That's nothing on the hypo-debakel. If you hadn't turned off the investigation committee at the time, we would have saved the billions. In fact, it is exactly the opposite: Investigations save billions. Now to come with the cost argument, that is also the lowest drawer of democracy. I would never have suspected you there, but you're still getting deeper. However, we will not let that happen to you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Mitterlehner then explains that he does not want to be planted. But he plants all citizens by claiming that everyone is allowed to sign two or three times, so the petition is worth nothing. This is your attitude towards the direct democratic instruments. You never need to talk about it again. As much damage as you have done on the one hand in the matter and in the billions and now also in democratic awareness-building, no one has done that, and for that you will be punished. After all, you would no longer have a majority if you had said the truth before, but we will now bring the truth about the petition, about the U-committee to the light of light, and then there will be no end to this acting.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19865	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19886	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors. High house! I prepared my speech in the morning and did not agree with Mr Kogler, although this covers one or the other content. In particular, as far as the dimensions of this whole matter are concerned, I believe that a discussion of this item on the agenda is more justified in the morning – and not at 7 p.m. in the evening. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] We discussed the so-called banking package in the Court of Auditors on 20 June. ==References====External links== The liberals agreed to the bank package at the time. We also stand for this because we felt that this was necessary in order to get the 2008 financial crisis under control. I am also saying this because we have explicitly not agreed to all the other measures that have been taken in the future. As one of the objectives of the bank package, the Court of Auditors has said that there is little burden on taxpayers. And then we also talked about the extent to which the degree of achievement of the target should be considered good, bad or mediocre. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The fact is that President Moser is the President of the Court of Auditors on the status as at 31. In December 2013, the balance between deposits and payouts was discussed. ==References== December 2013 €8.82 billion. You can see that now. BAWAG has already paid back, Raiffeisen will probably repay – it remains €6.71 billion. 6,71 billion €, that's 6 710 million €. I think we have already completely lost the relation to the dimensions. It's no longer palpable. I remember the first time that I was explicitly informed of the billion, that was in the years 2000/2001 when it came to the BAWAG scandal and the lost money. 1 billion € – I couldn't imagine that at the time, that's so unimaginable a lot of money. In the meantime, we are already so dull that we juggling with billions and not with millions. Is it now €4 billion or €6 billion or €20 billion? So the dimensions are almost impossible. [[Call at the SPÖ: This should have been considered in the liability!]] I try to explain with examples what you could get for it. The fact is that this €6.7 billion has to generate the real economy that consumers have to pay. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we voted against it, because I believe that the first step, as ex post shows, was of further steps towards the realization of a state, and that is to say: Dictat of banks and the financial sector on the real economy. You get the impression that this is a desirable goal for some of us. So it is certainly not for the liberals, but one gets the impression that it is a desirable goal for some here in the house to realize the dictatorship of banks and the financial industry on the real economy, and I believe that the real economy is both business and workers as well as consumers. They're all sitting in a boat, it doesn't make any sense to differentiate here. They are, as it were, those affected. As I said, we did not agree to the further measures, with the emergency nationalization or nationalization of 2009 – whether with or without need; it would also be interesting to clarify this, since there are appropriate arguments – Parliament has been avoided. It was interesting for me when the procedure was discussed in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, as it did. I personally did not have the impression in the Court of Auditors that it was particularly professional. As I said, this is a subjective impression of me. For example, Dr. Pessorn – which I have written down in addition – gave the following quote for the best: No one from the Republic of Austria has until the weekend, 13. and 14. December, you had the intention of notifying the Hypo Alpe-Adria. - Quote. I wonder how good and professional such an enormously far-reaching process has been prepared for an enormously far-reaching decision if this was not a matter at all until the weekend. We didn't sign the ESM either. There are already 2.4 billion € away, we have signed for 19 billion €. These are all sums that are very, very difficult to imagine. I am not yet talking about the outages, which are planned in case a country is unable to pay. Of course, we have not been involved in assessing whether the Hypo Alpe-Adria is going into insolvency for five years – today the burning house has often been called – with the hands in the pockets of the pants, as the house burns down to the foundation walls. We have also had no influence on the decision whether insolvency or not insolvency. It is only surprising that the recommendation of the Financial Procuratorship of November 2013, which explicitly recommended insolvency as a good and the best solution, was simply ignored. This is covered by what Mr Kogler said earlier: They make banks and speculators get away in this particular case. We would really be very interested in clarifying the whole case, especially since it really is about billions and aberbillions. I see the light shines, so I cut off. [[Call the SPÖ: It's enough!]] - Enough, gal! As I said, for me, the banking package, the ESM, the whole kind of hypo handling rather gives the impression that our representatives of the Federal Government have clearly represented the interests of the banks and the financial industry since 2008 and less that of the people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, I have the impression that with your majority – and you have a majority – the democratic rules are with us – you prevent Parliament from fulfilling its most important task under the Constitution, namely the control of the Federal Government. What are we for? – To make laws and control the Federal Government! I have the impression that you deny Parliament this control, you block it and prevent it from happening. If you now say that control takes place through the Council of Wise Men or the Commission of Inquiry or similar things, I can only tell you: A control carried out by persons who are themselves part of the system is inefficient. This is a contradiction in itself. This must, of course, be done by people who are not part of the system, and we have Parliament to do so. So open the way for an investigation committee! Let's control it! I also believe that the citizens you have chosen expect that from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19962	Mr Philip Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e19987	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not quite easy not to go into the hypo-debate immediately here. However, I would also like to say a few words about the Court of Auditors' report and the bank package, if this is allowed, in this ongoing hypo-debate. [[Abg. Kogler: If not, just say something to Carinthia!]] You allow, please. At that time, in these dramatic days and nights of 2008, there was a joint decision here in the House, in the National Council. Some of you were there at the time. It was a common protective wall against a huge avalanche, which was then in the form of the international financial crisis. This rescue measure consisted primarily of the granting of participation capital and the taking over of liabilities. These necessary rescue measures for the Austrian banks, especially in order to protect Austrian taxpayers, were adopted unanimously here. This Court of Auditors review was also requested unanimously by all the parties here. The common objective – and we may also mention this positively together – was at least achieved with the banking package, namely the stabilisation of the Austrian banking landscape. This was also explicitly stated by the Court of Auditors in the present audit report: “The measures taken contributed to the increase in credit institutions’ own and core capital ratios and thus to the stabilisation of the Austrian banking system immediately after the global financial crisis which was acute in September 2008.” I believe that from today's point of view too, the rapid reaction was painful, but correct and important. It has removed further damage from the Republic of Austria. The main criticisms of the Court of Auditors' report on the banking package were, on the one hand, insufficient supervision of the Ministry of Finance in liability and, on the other hand, that FIMBAG too did not exercise its control rights far enough. But it must be said that most of these 17 recommendations of the Court of Auditors have also been implemented immediately into practice, such as the transfer of mandatory control to FIMBAG or the timely transfer of participation capital to FIMBAG. We are all aware of the fact that these cleanups will continue to concern us for many years. We took a first step in Austria with the bank levy. We are fighting together to ensure that banks participate in the costs of the crisis. I think that's just fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no meeting here in the House, where the hypo-necessary stateization is not scandalized in any form, where it is not claimed in any form that there would be a miracle-wuzzi solution for the hypo that costs nothing that is simply not true. Mr Kogler! May I interrupt you briefly in their deliberations? I would just like to read a quote from you about what you said about the financial and banking crisis back then, 2008. They compared them to a fire, a suitable metaphor. They said – I quote literally –: ‘It must be deleted.’ [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] ‘It must not be saved with water in such an action.’ [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] So, that means spending firmly, it's about money. “I see this as it is, but it must not give us a look at where it all comes from, where the arsonists sit and how to organize fire protection in the future.” [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] Mr Kogler, I ask quite frankly: Where are the arsonists? – Your colleague Holub has found in Carinthia in the Committee of Inquiry that it is a free scandal that has led to years of mismanagement in Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] It was not the Austrian Federal Government that sat in the Carinthian state government. It was not the Minister of Finance Pröll, Spindelegger or any other person who, as a hypo supervisory commissioner, should have performed the supervisory duties. You know that very well. [[Abg. Kogler: This did not refer to the hypo, but to the financial markets!]] – Of course, the hypo is also correct. Mr Kogler, it is about you calling the arsons, and therefore the arsonists cannot be those who, as a fire brigade after that, also have to extinguish the fire. [[Abg. Kogler: The hypo was a criminal case in Carinthia!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Research Committee!]] But it is so easy, Mr Kogler, that it is so easy to know in retrospect everything you could have done better. [[Abg. Kogler: Learn from this quote!]] The bad thing is, you're not a light-seer. You always know it afterwards. To look into the past, that's not clear. They were personal for the establishment solution a year ago. You said Bad Bank – I can also read your press release again. [[Abg. Kogler: That's not true!]] They were for the Bad Bank. [[Abg. Kogler: Bad Bank is something other than an institution solution!]] They called it Bad Bank at the time. That's exactly what you were doing. That was a year ago. You said you shouldn't save with the extinguishing water. [[Abg. Kogler: You know your back and front!]] – No, Mr Kogler, be so honest with people and name quite honestly what your colleague Holub has already done in Carinthia and who are the ones responsible for this scandal! So you cannot deal with people that suddenly those who have all the cleaning work, wherever you personally stand for it – Mr Kogler! [[Abg. Kogler: in no way agreed!]] They voted in favour. They shared a path that was important and right at the time. It can't be that those who have the fire suddenly are the ones responsible. You know exactly who is responsible for this mess and that it was a free scandal. Please, be honest and do not make yourself a supporter of the liberals who is trying to whitewash the freedom policy in Carinthia! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] - May I ask you: How many years have the invoices been not presented in Carinthia, dear Mr Darmann? How many years? How many years? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Darmann.]] And who was sitting in the hypo as a supervisory commissioner? Which national financial referents were these? [[Abg. Darmann: Do you know what rights he had?]] Did they belong to the Freedom Party or the ÖVP or SPÖ or the Green? That was a free scandal, which is a free scandal, and it remains a free scandal. [[Abg. Darmann: Look at the law!]] That's it, Mr. Darmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20231	Mr Elmar Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20255	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It has already begun today with the objection debate, and it is obvious your tactics that you want to distract from the main problem by constantly repeating stereotype that it is a free scandal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now trying to explain it in very short words: We liberals sitting here in this House are aware of the fact that liability has been taken in excess. This is not a problem at all, so we also want it to be examined. [[Prolonged calls.]] But the liabilities entered into the country of Carinthia would not have been a problem if the bank had not been declared necessary. And you have to explain to me now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darabos: that you are guilty!]] One has to explain to me now why the hypo has run the risk of being sent into bankruptcy by the Bayern, and today a bankruptcy or insolvency is absolutely impossible. This contradiction, please try to clarify! [[Abg. Krainer: There is no contradiction!]] But that you don't want something, you'll notice. The fact that you do not want to be informed is that you are not aware of your constant refusal to allow an investigation committee. With regard to the constitutional control of Parliament: At the end of the day, both government parties have taken responsibility for the government, and you yourself have taken responsibility with these decisions, in which you constantly reject the investigation committee, or you are only more of the government's hands. [[Call the SPÖ:What language do you use there?]] You should write that over your ears once! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This Commission, which the Government now wants to use, is ultimately nothing but an abuse of an honourable judge who will be there to cover everything. This Commission has no rights, and the competent authorities that should deliver files are not obliged to hand them over. Nothing can come out. The attempted turning off of the petition – after all, it's already over 97,000 statements of support – is another indication to me that you don't want any information. [[Call to the ÖVP: Untruth!]] Finally, you have also kept the study of the financial procuratorship under cover, which has clearly expressed its support for bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. If you already believe Wyman and zeb/ not, then at least the financial attorney! Had you considered at least this study! [[Abg. Krainer: That's not a study! A PowerPoint presentation is a study?- Oh, my God!]] – This is at least as much as what happened in the Wyman report, and in other studies. It has been clearly explained and the head of the financial procuratorship, Pescorn, has clearly expressed its support for it. Today even the “Kronen Zeitung” has found that three days before the decision the bonds have been purchased by the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, eh!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The “Kronen Zeitung” study!]] It is interesting that the FMA detects against speculators, and they have also supported you with your process. They are promoting speculation, and this to the lasting damage to the Republic of Austria. I would have expected a self-confident Parliament, but no, you are only the leaders of the government who want to cover everything up. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the same way, I would like to make the second request: Motion for a resolution by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Minister for Finance The National Council intends to decide: ‘The Minister of Finance shall be, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20403	The applications submitted are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20480	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20501	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! First a few words about the bank package: This bank package was decided as a rescue package by all of us, by all the parties of this House. This led Parliament's steps in the right direction. These were steps which, as the Court of Auditors notes, succeeded in increasing the own funds and core capital ratios of the banks of systemic importance in Austria, thereby permanently stabilising the situation of credit institutions in the global banking and debt crisis. That is to say, it has succeeded in restoring the trust lost in the financial system due to the global financial crisis and in protecting the interests of savers, borrowers and investors. It has also succeeded in averting greater damage from the citizens of our country. It has also succeeded in securing the jobs of many people in our country. This was also a contribution to the fact that Austria, like hardly any other country, has come through this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to mention a few points on the Court of Auditors' recommendations: ‘The execution agents in accordance with the Financial Market Stability Act and the Interbank Strengthening Act should, as far as possible, be bundled in one place to use existing resources ().’ It was also recommended that the ‘dividend calculations for participation capital’ () should be carried out in the future on the basis of a current opinion of the Austrian National Bank’ or that ‘all future liability agreements’ should include the default interest scheme ( ). Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance has made it clear that, as far as they are concerned about the future, these suggestions should also be implemented accordingly. Another word on the hypo Alpe-Adria: The Kärntner state government with head of state Jörg Haider at the top has assumed liability to an unbearable extent. These liabilities are currently taxing all the solution variants. These liabilities are the reason why the taxpayer must also be asked for the cash register. [[Abg. Kogler: Why “must”?]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this to be addressed to the liberals. [[Abg. Kogler: Say something about the role of Minister Pröll! Where's Pröll?]] I therefore believe that these mistrusts against the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and the Minister of Finance are a distraction, Mr Podgorschek, in my view. I clearly reject these requests for mistrust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20551	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20575	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Singer, if the Court of Auditors' recommendations were not only quoted by you and perhaps mentioned in praise, but were also implemented, we would have been standing somewhere else for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Remember that it was the Court of Auditors that had already begun to control the Hypo Alpe-Adria in 2004 or 2003! Calls You remember that the Federal Court of Auditors wanted to take control of this bank in 2006! With your majority of ÖVP and FPÖ – BZÖ it was in Carinthia at that time – the majority of the proportions with a trick – of employee participation – were changed in such a way that the Court of Auditors had to come back to Vienna again. [[Abg. Rädler: And what did Mr. Haider do?]] Thinking She pointed out that the National Court of Auditors in Carinthia carried out an examination and also reported on it! The Members of this Parliament, so to speak, your colleagues, refused and did not take any consequences. It does not begin in 2008. No, no, no, The refusal of control already starts in 2006 and 2007. I am very grateful that, at least in the National Council, a unanimous decision has commissioned an audit report on the bank package. After all, I am grateful that at least in Vienna a certain reasonable control has been developed. The result not only gives us to think, the result must also lead to action. I can only remember: On page 15 it reads: “FlMBAG” – the company that had to deal with the bank package – “did not carry out the supervision of the conditions it had been transferred to it because it did not exercise the contractually granted accounting, auditing and prudential rights.” It did not exercise the auditing and prudential rights. I repeat that because that is exactly the core. The rights of financial market supervision, the rights of the National Bank, did not result in full consequences. They don't practice one, and the other don't put it into practice. Control competence remains on track, although we have a wide range of institutions. A total of four institutions have actually dealt with the same issue. We have discussed this in the Committee. But instead of pulling on a strand and co-ordinated action, it is, as it were, acting in parallel. There are so-called plausibility checks. That's in itself a nice round for this FIMBAG, but it didn't do anything. The core task, namely to really check the extent to which they are, so to speak, sustainable, or not to what extent they are healthy or not, has been done to an insufficient extent. In the end, this is also the result of the Court of Auditors' report. There is also the criticism on page 22, where it is very clear that in the so-called emergency nationalization – I emphasize “so-called” – the Federal Ministry of Finance called for an opinion from the National Bank that was outdated. No current request was made. I mean, these are again non-perceptional control and testing tasks. That is why the system is ill, and the Court of Auditors is rightly putting its fingers in this wound and stressing the need for improvements. I could give you further quotes, but I would like to stress the bow a little further as a whole and point out that the discussion in the committee has shown us how positive it could be. We had information, and they also provided information. The information has confirmed what has been criticized here. What Liebscher said about what Peschorn gave of himself, also from the ministry of Mr. Mag. Lejsek has been expressed, increasing the need to ensure that we are finally drawn to a line by means of controls. I am massively in favour of policy orientation in future in its political decisions when it comes to participation capital or shares in banks. The Minister of Finance has also admitted that it was a wrong political decision to give only participation capital and not to take part in it. In the US, the share policy has led to budget growth. The bank rescue package has brought something to the American taxpayers. The Court of Auditors calculates: If we had taken this system in Austria, we would have had 180 million profits. We would have obtained money from the banks that we urgently need. But what did we do? – In Austria, the political decision was that we take the full risk. Only the chances of profit participation are we based on. That's where we let the banks themselves get the profit. That is the basic problem, and that is what I would like to conclude. The basic problem raised repeatedly in the Committee's debate or by the Court of Auditors is the felt between the banking world and politics in Austria. So we are also at the decisive night, at the night of the emergency state, in which this felt was probably also united at a table. Parliament's core task is not only to take Court of Auditors' reports seriously but also to carry out investigations on the critical moments of political clarification of critical decisions. There's no Commission helping, there's no helping the chief judge. There's only one investigation committee to help. Finally, let us go over to this important matter of control, which the lawyer of the last committee of inquiry considers essential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20620	Mr Kai Jan Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20644	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser! It was beneficial because you gave a very factual speech. I also have to give you the right to say that, in the event of such a banking crisis in the future, we should at least not use participation capital, but real core capital or property capital, or at least use it more strongly. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! With rights for the Republic!]] I hope, however, that all of us will no longer experience such a financial crisis. We wouldn't have made a profit, but we don't have to think about it. It is also not that we had “no revenue” from the bank package – under quotation marks. In the last five years, we have had almost €4 billion in participation capital, interest rates, liability interest and bank charges. So it's not like nothing came in. But that is a point where, I believe, we are in agreement. [[Abg. Moser: Thank God! You learned something!]] But in this debate a number of things have already been said that require a little correctiveness. It has been said that the Banking Committee in 2007 had prevented the disaster of the hypo. [[Abg. Kogler: billions!]] We know that the problem at the hypo is the country's liability. The last national arrests were made in 2007. What else should have been prevented in 2007 is a mystery to me. The Banking Committee was also unable to prevent the national liabilities that had been irresponsibly received in Carinthia under the leadership of FPÖ. That is why there is no point in claiming the opposite. Mr Kogler has not yet explained his change of opinion, although he has already been asked to do so several times, not only by me but also by other speakers. Until a few months ago, he himself said that the best solution would be the Bad Bank, the mining unit. Now the government is doing what it has called for as the best solution until a few months ago. Today this is supposed to be the worst and most expensive solution, even though he called for it a few months ago. The explanation, why this is the case, he cannot give, because his current position of insolvency, of course, a) is objectively unsustainable and b) is purely populist and man scatters sand into his eyes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Kogler: You should have done that four years ago!]] Do you stand by what you asked for a few months ago and be glad that this is finally happening? [[Interlocutory calls from Members Neubauer, Podgorica and Kogler.]] I would have been right if this had already happened before, but at last stand up to what you said here a few months ago! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They make themselves here and say: Only if we had made a unit of degradation two or three years ago would we have saved up €2 or €3 billion, and all the experts would say that. No expert says that. All experts say: In whatever way the basic structure of the degradation goes, the costs will be the same at the end of the day. [[Abg. Kogler: What do you say about this and Androsch?]] The difference is only that the costs are incurred earlier, and in the degradation unit they are made later. That is what is happening. Don't say that billions would have been lost, because that's simple and just wrong! Court of First Instance You're not here things you need to know for yourself that they're just wrong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's not wrong!]] I need to say something about this petition question. We know there are different kinds of petitions in this house. In essence, there are three: The first is that the Committee on Petitions takes direct note of a petition. This is, according to general opinion, the least worthy treatment of a petition here in the house – I say once. Secondly, it is said that an opinion is received from a competent ministry. This is difficult for a committee of inquiry because there is no competent ministry for an investigation committee because the Parliament itself is responsible. The third variant you have in the Committee on Petitions is that you assign the petition to the committee responsible. This is usually called for by the opposition parties, I do not think it is wrong. This is generally seen as the most dignified treatment of a petition. Now the two government groups are taking this petition very seriously and proposing what is generally seen as the most worthy process of all petitions, namely the allocation to the committee responsible. [[Abg. Kogler: But not after three weeks! Incorruptible!]] They bring in: We should ask the Ministry of Finance and the BKA if it is always okay to make an investigation committee. [[Abg. Kogler: That's not true!]] I do not think that as a parliamentarian, because as a Parliament one does not have to ask whether one wants to make an investigation committee or not – that is purely from the interests of the Rules of Procedure. But to accuse the government groups of turning away anything, although they want to initiate the generally recognized and most dignified form of treatment of a petition, is really absurd. It may be possible to tell outside where you do not know what the Rules of Procedure look like and what scope there is at all. But here we can honestly look into the eye and say: The process has actually been in order. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] Outside you can claim the opposite, but inside here you could at least stand to what is common in the house here and normal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's hard for me to say something about my mistrust. I have seen a number of mistrusts in a few years. But I have not yet experienced such a poorly formulated and poorly justified – namely, not well-founded –. [[Abg. Kogler: He doesn't need any more reason!]] It's such a thing – you can't actually say much about it. So you come back with your liability chain. We have already x-fold explained that this has nothing to do with the truth. I can tell you once again, I can also say it slowly so that this may be understood: First of all, the bank is always held liable. This has not changed due to the need for nationalization. Second, the owner is liable with the paid-in capital. I'm sorry, but the As a result of the emergency nationalisation, the Bavarian Landesbank has not only lost the paid-up capital. [[Abg. Neubauer: Read the press!]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Yes, that was the mistake! Don't you understand, Krainer? Without an emergency state, the Bavaria would have been held liable!]] No, they had to shoot one more € 850 million, that we would buy them by €1. They lost €3.7 billion. That's the reality! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Then always comes the reproach that the Free State of Bavaria had been held liable. You always refer to an opinion from a Honorary Professor at the University of Economics who by the way writes your tax programmes. But should be, he's still a honorary professor. He explicitly writes: for any guarantees. Yes, Bavaria is still liable for any guarantees today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] But there's no one and there's never been any. So this is simply a sand-in-the-eye scatter and, in fact, an dishonest argument that you bring here. The Free State of Bavaria never has a guarantee, never a liability for the hypo. Only the Carinthians did that. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] These liabilities are still valid. In 2009, the problem was that as soon as the hypo went into bankruptcy, the Federal Republic of Carinthia would immediately have gone into bankruptcy and insolvency with unforeseen consequences. In any case, that would have been more expensive than the rescue. That's why it was right what we did. Stop scattering sand into the eyes at last! Last: Whoever has caused this, hopefully everyone knows, namely, the chief of freedom in Carinthia. Whoever pays it, we've always said it here. We've always said: Banks should pay for the cost of bank rescue. That's why we introduced the bank levy. They voted against the introduction, and the Greens too voted against it when we raised it a few weeks ago. - Thank you for that. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Stefan.]] You can see who wants to make sure the banks pay at the end of the day and who represents only populist views here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20877	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20898	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that the Court of Auditors' report has found a good place to judge the plenary presence. This is also gratifying and good, especially from the point of view of a group of governments, because the Court of Auditors' report basically comes to a very positive overall conclusion, namely that the Austrian banking package has succeeded in increasing the own funds and core capital ratios of the banks in question in Austria, thereby stabilising the situation of credit institutions in the global banking and debt crisis. I think that's the core statement, and you can't repeat it often enough. There have already been many speeches in this House on the subject of hypo. I would like to address this issue with a different approach: What actually happened to this problem? – Of course, it is about the liabilities, but also before that, all kinds of things have happened. This is, I believe, also very important for taxpayers. This is also seen in the Task Force's report. In total, the Bank currently has liabilities of 17.8 billion. On the other hand, there are also assets. I have briefly looked at this, there are also assets such as cash and securities. There are 1,500 real estates and, of course, 13.5 billion credit volumes. Of these 13.5 billion, 5 million are “good loans” – under quotation marks – which are also continuously served. The key question that stands in the room is of course: Why do these loans amount to eight and a half billion euros, which are not used? This also interests every taxpayer. That is the central question to be answered in the many criminal proceedings that are already taking place. Of course, it was bank management, which obviously has granted loans in many, many thousands of cases, which are no longer transferable or are only more difficult to bring in. They are not being used at the moment, but of course there are some guarantees. And this has always been very important for me to stress that there has also been a lot of work on it. Bank management has been cited in many areas in court, there are over 100 cases running, there are first convictions. This signal that this scandal is also being prepared is very important for the Austrian taxpayer. The second level of reflection is, of course, the question of liability. This is being heatedly discussed here in the house, and it is important to me once again to get to the point of what we mean by liability. I sometimes have the feeling here in the House that some do not understand what is meant by liability. – Liability is a guarantee, and a guarantee serves to secure a claim. [[Abg. Stefan: This is also the ESM!]] The guarantee undertakes to advise the creditor if the debtor fails to fulfil its obligations. – And that is the crucial point of the whole story. [[Abg. Stefan: ESM!]] The liability was there at the time! And one thing I say quite clearly: The main responsibility lies with the liberals, but others have also decided not to ask a question at all. That is to be emphasized again and again. I have always understood my political functions to bear responsibility. The main responsibility lies clearly with the liberals. The liabilities were there when, at the time, the bank was taken over by the Bavaria, the liabilities were there when the emergency stateization took place, and the liabilities are still there today. It's always being negated! And you have not been able to remove the liability through the acquisition by the Bavarian Landesbank. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, and I say this also out of deep conviction, a very honest final statement: On the question of the Committee of Inquiry, I was not sure at the outset as a new Member - I am telling you that quite honestly. However, if I get to know what Mr Kogler is doing here, how the liberals are doing here in the house, I can only say that a committee of inquiry is nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20958	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on an opinion. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e20979	Mr President. High house! I would like to begin by saying that this item on the agenda is a report with six audit results on the agenda, which, of course, has been discussed in detail in the Court of Auditors' Committee and also today. But also all the other reports are very good. That is why I would like to address these briefly so that their recommendations can also be implemented. I would like to draw attention to what reports are: the “pension prevention of selected professions (architects, engineering consultants and lawyers), the cross-sectional examination of “Ländlich Wegbau” and three follow-up checks on the “effects of staff sovereignty on the overall cost situation of the University of Vienna and the WU Vienna”, “ÖBB: Slow-passing points, or the “Federal travel fee” or “Federal travel fees”. Overall, and this demonstrates the impact of the Court of Auditors, 29 recommendations 22 have been implemented, a very high value. At the same time, however, the unimplemented recommendations show that there is still a need for action in particular to achieve the objectives set, namely a structurally balanced budget. I have already come to the point which has already been debated in detail today, namely the banking package. It has been pointed out that this bank package review is based on a unanimous decision by all of you, with the Court of Auditors auditing the implementation of the Financial Market Stability Act, the Interbank Strengthening Act in the BMF, the FIMBAG, the OeNB and the Financial Market Supervision. In addition, the RH also examined compliance with the contracts concluded between the Federal Government and credit institutions. The goal – and this has been mentioned several times – was to restore confidence in the financial system through a €100 billion bank package, as well as the goal of protecting the interests of savers, borrowers and investors. ==References== However, it is also necessary to draw a financial interim balance sheet on this bank package on December 2013. Therefore, allow me to point out that of the €15 billion in volume according to the Financial Market Stability Act at the deadline 31. December 2013 €14,375 billion, thus 95.8 percent of the framework, were exploited. The beneficiaries of these measures were KA Finanz AG and the municipal credit Austria AG with €6.125 billion, the Hypo Alpe-Adria with €4.8 billion, the Raiffeisenbank International with €1.750 billion, the Österreichische Volksbanken-AG with €1.350 billion and at the same time the BAWAG with €350 million. If revenue/payments have been considered since 2008, they amounted to a total of €3,793 billion. In contrast to the total amount of disbursements/expenditures of €12,610 billion, the result was a total of €31. The balance of €8,817 billion was negative in December 2013. In the meantime, BAWAG has been reimbursed, amounting to € 350 million. At the same time, the repayment of Raiffeisenbank International is in discussion of €1.750 billion. In addition, it is also worth pointing out that the Financial Market Stability Act still has liabilities of €4,306 billion, of which €1.2 billion at Hypo Alpe-Adria, €3,006 billion at KA Finanz AG and €100 million at the Österreichische Volksbanken-AG. In addition, the measures will be implemented in accordance with the Interbank Strengthening Act. ==References== ==References====External links== December 2013 Liabilities amounting to €3.094 billion are open, with the last liability, namely that of KA Finanz AG, amounting to €1.238 billion at 12. ==References====External links== The Court of Auditors also pointed out that a final assessment would not be possible until the repayment of the total capital of participation was actually carried out or after the expiry of the liabilities, and it also pointed out that there was still a potential for risk in this area. ==References====External links== In December 2013, financial market stability, a reserve of €3.6 billion is available but is not yet financed. Therefore, any measure from the banking package, which is likely to impact, will also increase the deficit. As far as the criticism points are concerned, I believe, Mr President of the ÖVP, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors has worked out in particular the following criticisms in the banking package: the number of institutions involved with the same tasks, the unmistakable establishment of FIMBAG, the insufficient definition of the conditions, the inadequate exercise of the BMF's control and, at the same time, the FIMBAG's, the shortcomings in reporting and, at the same time, a construction that did not involve in the economic recovery of credit institutions. Considering the diversity of the institutions involved, it should be noted that similar tasks have been fragmented by reviewing similar conditions in the context of the control of the conditions of different institutions. The BMF is responsible for controlling the requirements of the IBSG, the Interbank Strengthening Act, as well as for the liabilities under the Financial Market Stability Act, to examine similar conditions in the event of the granting of participation capital. In addition, the Oesterreichische National Bank was also involved in the preparation of opinions on the transfer of participation capital or financial market supervision when it comes to negotiations with credit institutions. It is precisely this variety of stakeholders that has not contributed to the efficiency of the performance of tasks. As regards the establishment of FIMBAG, it should be noted that the decision-making process was, on the one hand, not comprehensible that there was no cost-benefit considerations, and that this construction caused €12.6 million in costs by the end of 2013, with the Court of Auditors in particular criticising the high consultation costs and failure to comply with the award rules. If you look at the conditions, you can see that they have been undetermined. They were very difficult to quantify and they were only limited verifiable, with the BMF's control of the requirements in part complete and partly due to two years' delay. As far as FIMBAG is concerned, the control of the conditions was insufficient because the contractually granted audit of books, operations and insights has not been carried out, and FIMBAG has reduced its activity for plausibility checks and management discussions. In addition, surveys and investigations were not carried out. Even in the case of identified deviations, e.g. in the case of credit terms, the possibilities for verification have not been exhausted. There were no individual case tests and no on-the-spot checks. [[Abg. Kogler: A madness!]] As far as lending is concerned, one point must also be made: In view of the defined objective of the bank package, the FIMBAG stated that at least twice as large a loan to undertakings and private individuals as capital of participation granted or signed by the federal government, in the report to the BMF of 12. In July 2009, although the question – I quote – is to what extent a total decline in the volume of domestic lendings is in line with the banking package – quoted – while at the same time pronouncing growth abroad, it did not carry out on-the-spot checks, but only saw further need for discussion. This lack of supervision was also related to the review of the remuneration systems and even concerned the monitoring of the statutory contract stencil regulation, with the addition of not even the planned planning costs/esteem comparisons with the business development of credit institutions. In summary, the Court of Auditors would point out that the measures of the bank package have been a contribution to increasing the equity and core capital ratios, so that they have certainly contributed to the stabilisation of the banking system, but that the audit has shown shortcomings in the execution that would help to eliminate them. This requires, in particular, now, also with regard to the reduction measures, that a pooling of the performance competences be carried out. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21036	Thank you very much, President Dr. Moser, for your statement. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, the two requests for referral must be put to the vote. As regards the III-11 report of the Supplements, there is a referral request from the honourable Member. Mr Kogler and Mr Schenk's request for a referral back. I shall immediately vote on the referral of the III-11 report to the Court of Auditors. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up to do so in order to have a corresponding sign. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-11 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, Podgoricak, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, Podgoricak, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – That is rejected. [[19:53:57]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 85/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues on executions in Saudi Arabia (47 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on motions for resolutions 108/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues in the care of child trafficking victims (48 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 151/A(E) by Anneliese Kitzmüller, Members and colleagues on the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia (49 d.a.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on motions for resolutions 280/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Franz Kirchgatterer, colleagues on recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia (54 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 237/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues with regard to the aggressment of crimes against humanity in North Korea (55 D.B.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 278/A(E) by Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues on no life sentence for under 18 year olds in the USA (56 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21223	We shall now proceed to items 12 to 17 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The rapporteur on point 13 is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. However, there was no oral reporting. Mrs Kitzmüller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21253	Mr President. Minister! If we look at the request of the liberals and those of SPÖ and ÖVP on the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia, they differ in a very important point. We liberals are not only calling for recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia alone, but also for this to be done on an EU-based basis throughout the EU, which is to be included here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, especially since the Italian and Hungarian minorities have already been recognized. So why should an exception be made to the German-speaking minority? Considering that it accounts for about 0.2 percent of the population, it would be ridiculous to talk about a regermanization, as you already hear. You don't need to be afraid of that. Of course, we know what official recognition means: It means that they receive funding in financial terms and also that they receive a certain amount of legal protection. In the request of the government parties there is talk of conciliatory gestures vis-à-vis the German-speaking minority. – How do you define a conciliatory gesture? What does that mean? They also say that bilateral relations with the Republic of Slovenia will have an effect on the official recognition of the German minority. – How do you want to work on it? How do you intend to influence the Slovenian Republic that it does? Is there, for your part, a roadmap until this recognition is due to take place, when a result is to be achieved, that the Austrian minority in Slovenia is recognised? There's nothing to read about all of this here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would also like to say that I am very glad that you are here now, Minister – and I ask you immediately: What is Austria doing to explain the murder of Martinovic? So far, I haven't heard anything about that. Further: What is Austria doing for the recovery and burial of the partisan victims in Slovenia? We speak in connection with the Killing Fields of Europe at the Bacherngebirge or of Huda Jama. Nothing's happening! They're confused there, they're not in a real grave, and they haven't been set a monument. But it must also be said that these were not victims of the war, but they were victims in times of peace! I am convinced that there is an extreme need for action to involve not only Slovenia but also the EU in order to meet these victims. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we liberals will also agree with the request of the government parties, for, as I said, it is better to have a spot in hand than a dove on the roof. [[Abg. Kirchgatterer: Bravo!]] Mr Kurz, I rely on your youth, on your youthful elan and momentum, to change and bring back some momentum to these tedious, old, insatiable structures of the government parties and to actually achieve something and to give recognition to our victims and to our German-speaking minorities in Slovenia, who are more old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21311	Mr Kirchgatterer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21332	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For us Social democrats and social democrats, the commitment to safeguarding and safeguarding human rights is an important pillar of our policy. In the debate in the Human Rights Committee with the Minister for Human Rights, we or our Socialist Group have pointed out that social human rights are particularly important to us. I would like to give a sad example here in plenary, namely the working conditions in the textile industry in Bangladesh. There a worker gets 30 € per month; and the threefolding of this wage would affect a garment with 10 cents. It can be seen that there is a need for action, that Austria and the State community are required to ensure the protection of social human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I am responding to the requests. I would like to say to the above-mentioned proposal concerning the German-speaking minority in Slovenia that we consider very well-targeted discussions with Slovenia to be a target, to support the activities of the Federal Government and to consider them to be correct. Another application concerns trafficking in human beings, the trafficking of children and the protection of victims. I would like to refer to the National Council meeting last year. We have discussed the subject in detail, and I would like to mention one point: We have called for, or have requested, an annual report from the Federal and State Offices to achieve improvements annually. Another point is the situation in the USA. We have also called for the abolition of the death penalty in the last legislative period. There are more and more American states that have abolished the death penalty. Today we are talking about the Life-long prison sentences without probation for young people. There are eleven-year-olds who are sentenced to life without probation and are behind bars. That is why we want to call on the US to sign the Convention on Children's Rights – as many, many countries too. These are only three countries that have not done so. The Convention on Children's Rights clearly and clearly states that for so long prison sentences are in no way acceptable in today's time. I should like to mention two further points in the short term: Saudi Arabia – bad conditions, terrible conditions. Therefore, the Federal Government is called upon to act bilaterally but within the framework of the EU to ensure that international human rights standards are finally observed and fair court proceedings are conducted. The last point: Korea. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few weeks ago, the UN Commission presented the report on North Korea. All fears have been exceeded. The Commission concludes that: ‘The violations of human rights are of a severity, an extent and a kind that do not know a comparison in today’s world’ It is proposed that the International Criminal Court should act against the dictator and his clan. Our request, which was made by everyone in the committee, supports this with all its clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21387	Next, Mr Ertlschweiger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21409	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, in the debate on the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia, it should be noted that the Stronach team prefers to speak of ethnic groups rather than minorities. [[Abg. Podgorschek: What's the difference, please?]] – The term “minority” is very often pushed into the near range of inferiority, so in our opinion, this is not a target in this discussion. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] What do the facts look like? In Slovenia about 2 000 old Austrians currently live with their native German language. Of course, we are expressing our support for the preservation and promotion of this German-speaking, Austrian People's Group. From a historical point of view, there is no discussion about the fact that this group is an autochthone, as you say so beautifully. To remember: Before the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, 74,000 Austrians lived in Lower Austria. All cities and many markets are based on German foundations and have been inhabited for centuries for the most part by German underseaters. According to a census of 1910, for example, Marburg had a population of 84 percent of Germans. We therefore agree when we say that there is no discussion that this group is considered to be a local population group in Slovenia. But why this German-speaking people's group is still denied legal recognition in Slovenia is not quite understandable to me, especially since the Hungarian and Italian groups are recognized. Why is it measured by two measures? That's a question I'm asking myself. Especially in times of a common Europe, which is so often praised in this House, in the sense of a peace-keeping union, it is high time to learn from the mistakes of the past and build bridges, but bridges from both sides. The demand for an autonomous group of people should be understood as a cultural enrichment and not as a competition. In my opinion, it would be time for Slovenia to pay more attention to the rights of national groups according to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to respect the diversity of cultures, religions and languages. Nearly 70 years after the end of the Second World War, the political leaders in Slovenia should finally realize that just neighbouring countries and their ethnic groups must actively live up to mutual appreciation in a constant process. That is why I am voting in favour of the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia and hope that this will also be implemented. – Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21451	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21473	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We have also dealt with the issue of trafficking in children in human rights in the Committee on Human Rights. In the field of child trafficking, many people in Austria probably think of far-off countries. - Yes, terrible, what happens there. But with us? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, – Probably only a few are aware that children are victims of child trafficking in Austria, because they come here so that we have to face this issue here. And it's good that we deal with this issue, because it's a pretty bad thing to let the smallest of society, the helpless become such atrocities. It is therefore important that we here in the House deal with this issue in order to raise awareness, raise awareness and also set up actions. According to UNICEF estimates, about 1.2 million children will be victims of traffickers every year. That's a horror number that everyone would have to wake up. We too are not necessarily an island of the Blessed. Austria has a certain importance as a transit or destination country for trafficking in human beings by its situation in the centre of Europe. There are few concrete numbers and a high number of dark ones. Vienna, for example, has numbers, there are about 75 children. This doesn't sound like a lot in international relations, but every child affected by trafficking in human beings is one thing too much. It's bad that it's mostly about children between the ages of 7 and 17, on average there are 12-year-olds who are abused for all kinds of criminal things. This starts with the fact that they may be forced into prostitution, into beggarry, into slave services, so everything is pretty violent, and we have to do something about it. Often these children of notaries have certified letters, in which they are registered that their parents agree that the children are allowed to travel. Various entries are found in the passports of the children, as if they were all legal, but there are also hidden injuries to the children, according to the authorities. It is also human trafficking in children, if not necessarily a means of printing has been used. Any consent of the child or the obsor-righteous person is not at all relevant. In Austria, this definition has also been found in national legislation. This has been taken over here by the House, and that is true. Children have the right to be protected from violence and exploitation. Above all, it is important to identify potential victims of child trafficking, to make them more psychi-supply, and to address the dependence on people's dealers, who often exist, because fear, shame and language problems often make identification difficult. Often, child trafficking begins with a migration wish, the desire of parents to come to a better country, to come to a better future. This is why one must also use family-related factors, but also social and economic factors in many countries, including in Europe, Eastern Europe, for example, or South-East Europe. In this matter, the Federal Government is responsible for the principle legislation, the countries are responsible for implementing laws. In order to improve coordination, a working group on trafficking in children was set up in the Ministry of Family Affairs and a sub-group on the External Trade Task Force, where a national action plan against trafficking in human beings was drawn up. This is about recommending measures to make child trafficking prevention and to protect victims. It is important that this working group is currently drawing up guidelines for child and youth assistance, for the police, for asylum and xenophobia actors, for health and so on. This should be supported. There are also positive initiatives, such as in Vienna, which also provides support in the countries of Eastern Europe such as Romania, Bulgaria and so on, which provide local assistance to people in the area in building up crisis centres and providing support through trained social education. It is important that we remain on this issue so that we can reduce or, as far as possible, erase this bad crime here in a broad consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21533	Mr Riemer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21554	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! I'm really saying this out of honest heart: We have discussed properly in the Human Rights Committee. It is about the situation of the Germans in Slovenia. [[The speaker presents an issue of the book “Verjautt! Ethnic cleansing in Slovenia” by Roman Leljak in front of himself on the speaker's desk.]] ==References====External links== March: ‘Kurz blitzs in Slovenia’. – So briefly, in principle, cold feet have caught. I could've told him that right now. If one does not come to our neighbors with such proposals, it will remain the same. Nevertheless, I count this highly, Mr Federal Minister, because I have also experienced these talks with Mr Lopatka's Secretary of State below, as well as other discussions. If you talk to the people this and beyond the border, you will hear the same thing again and again. That's not an accusation, quite the contrary. I hope and build on you because you have shown courage. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Carinthia has presented something with the solution of the local panel question, which was once a great thing. It is true that today the Italians and Hungary have more rights, even the Roma have more rights than the Germans! [[Call to the Greens: Why “even”?- Oh, my God!]] The Germans have no rights at all. I think we have to say this clearly: You have no rights. And why? It's very easy to explain: Constitutional recognition is constitutional recognition, something else does not exist in Slovenia. The cultural agreement is more or less for nothing. It's nothing but a little bread so people can't starve. And if you don't know that, please read in Article 64 or 65. Mr Ertlschweiger told me – I thank him too – beautifully, and he was right. Mr Kitzmüller has also explained this perfectly. Why this recognition? Someone in the committee has said that there is no “constitutional” in it. Please, I think the Federal Government understands that this is about constitutional recognition. Why? First: If this does not happen, the assimilation pressure will continue. The Germans will continue to refuse to give up their identity, they will not announce it. Thirdly, They're not going to report in clubs, because they're afraid they're going to have them, so to speak. It goes so far that people say: Please don't write me a letter with a sender, otherwise they know I'm at the cultural club in Cilli, in Marburg or elsewhere! That's reality. Therefore, collective protection at the level of constitution and law would be urgently necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that this group is an autochthone is probably no doubt. That is also not true in the government's request. Please, that's an autochthonic group from the 10. 19th century! I put a book here. I'm not a historian, I'm not interested in human rights. Whoever reads this can look up almost all names from the time after the war, perhaps he finds relatives inside. Thankfully, this was brought out last year by Roman Leljak. This is a historian of Croatian descent, who lives in Slovenia and is writing books, also sponsored by the state governments of Carinthia and Styria. What was a constitutional recognition now? I'll do it for a second. First: People could make a clear confession without having to be afraid. They could no longer be insulted in connection with the consequences of the Second World War. You could not evade the clubs, even in the press. They could now have a legal judgment. You can go to court today, but as Slovenians, not as Germans. That's a big difference. So you're never spoken right. They could use their own German names, for example, first names. This is not allowed. They could call their villages Cilli at the Sann, for example, instead of Celje. This too is a possibility. For example, they could have cultural monuments such as churches, chapels and cemeteries restored, at the expense of the Slovenian state. This would have to be done on the basis of this constitutional decree. They could, for example, send a symbolic parliamentarian to Hungary and the Italians. They could go into the municipal representations. They could be part of kindergartens. They could be promoted as a recognised group, for which Slovenia would then be responsible. That's what it says inside. They'll have to pay for it. Then they could be part of it. And, and, and, the time is running away from me. But what's very important is: It's always about basic funding, so that the association can survive, because until we're ready – I always hear, someday the Slovenians will be so far – they're already starved. I've been told by an old lawyer below: You know what? The Slovenians and the Austrians are just waiting until we're gone. Then they don't have to pay anything more. But I don't believe that for Austria! This is a proud people, and we are responsible for our minorities! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Two, three more quotes. The European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, summary of the Council of Europe, has rightly said: Why at European level? Since 2010, the measures have generally been in favour of Slovenia! That's how it goes: The TV shows needed. They could happen in the media. They must not even come to the media, nothing! That's supposed to happen. German is to be promoted and so on. Thousands of points. But what has Slovenia implemented to this day? Zero, nothing, nothing at all! And someone should tell me they're so sweet anyway. Yes, in conversation, perhaps at a proper glass of Štajerska wine beyond the border. Just one more thing to conclude: Let us not increase this minority by saying that it is 1,500 people! Firstly, it is more, as Mr Ertlschweiger said correctly. This and beyond the border they say rightly, one writes us down consciously in the number. One takes the results of the Slovenian census of 2010. The following things have been done: They have written “regional minorities”. There are many who, out of fear of confessing themselves as Germans, have said: I'm a Gottscheer – that's a minority of my own. I'm a steirer – a minority of my own. That's how the numbers come about. That is why I would ask you to make a statement here. However, the problem remains, in conclusion: The Slovenian Government needs a constitutional change for all minority rights. We know it's hard. We build on it, we support you, Federal Minister. And perhaps it is a suggestion that a committee or group should be set up similar to the Carinthian consensus group. That's how the people's group rights were determined in Carinthia. The Slovenians showed us something, with courage. Shut up in front of the Slovenians!, I really have to confess. They have managed that the Slovenian State has asked a Commission for the EU to examine the minority rights of the Slovenians in Carinthia. That's what I expect from Austria. In this sense, thank you very much. It's really about the Lower Taurus, it's about a lot of people working this and beyond the border, and it's about the South Styria eventually about our neighbors. We need strong bridge pillars in the south. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21621	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21642	Mr President. Dear Lord...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21669	Excuse me, Mrs Deputies! I would just like to ask you to stop the talks during a speech! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21693	Oh, yeah, you forgot your book. [[Abg. Riemer: Thank you!]] - You're welcome! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the last Human Rights Committee, we talked about many international human rights issues, the atrocities of the regime against its own people in North Korea, the identification of victims of child and human trafficking, and the executions of which have tripled since 2011 in Saudi Arabia. In view of the short speaking time, I will not be able to deepen all these points now, and I will certainly not focus my speech on the liberals either, but it cannot be allowed to happen if there are sentences here by free Members like – I quote – the following: Even the Roma have more rights than Germans in Slovenia! - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, that's a shame. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Mlinar.]] [[Abg. New builder: That's not true!]] For it really was about human rights, it was about minority rights, it was about concrete people, without being hierarchical between them and without wanting to put one higher and the other lower, especially in view of all the racism that millions of Roma have suffered in Europe for decades, it would not be allowed to do so, such as: [[Abg. New builder: That's not true!]] Even the Roma have more rights than Germans! to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: No, he didn't say that!]] This is really to the shame of a foreigner and also shows that you are not really about human rights, but only about the rights of a particular language group. [[New call for tender of the Abg. New builder.]] - Now to the requests. I would like to begin with the proposal put forward by my fellow Members and Green Members and discussed in the last Human Rights Committee, namely those concerning executions in Saudi Arabia. This request, or what has been made with a 27-year request from the government groups, shows us that our fears have been confirmed in the last legislative period with several requests, requests and requests, namely that this ominous King Abdullah Dialogue Centre, to which the Federal Government has known and which has been founded, is already in advance of its shadows. Since then, this regime in Saudi Arabia, with its very massive and devastating human rights violations – with a triple of the execution rate since 2011, with the persecution of religious minorities, the oppression of women, other men and women, bloggers and so on – is being beautifully spoken of by the Federal Government and the government groups. The best example is the §-27 proposal submitted by SPÖ and ÖVP members to the Human Rights Committee, where the text of the resolution, i.e. the objective of the request, has not been substantially changed, but where the reason has been distorted and changed in such a way that one can read out more or less, well, it is not so bad with the executions in Saudi Arabia. – It is kept silent that there has been this triple execution rate since 2011, and it is thought that the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia is not as disastrous with different expressions and beauties. I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, the colleague from the SPÖ stands up and says that the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia is very bad. – There was not much to hear in the Committee! And if it is true that there is no handproof evidence, then there is no need for an opposition request in the explanatory statement to be watered down to the inaccuracy. We will nevertheless agree with what was left of our original request, because of course we are in favour of the abolition of the death penalty also in Saudi Arabia, that people who were not yet full-time at the time of the crime are not punished with the death penalty and not executed and that there is a rethinking taking place. The minimum that the Federal Government can and must do now is to contact its so-called dialogue partner, namely the regime in Saudi Arabia and King Abdullah, and to press for real change in the human rights situation. Unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough to deal with the other applications, but I would like to stress that it is gratifying that the Human Rights Committee has succeeded in reaching agreement on several international human rights issues. Most of us have been able to decide by majority or even unanimously. I hope that we can work constructively and productively on the issue of human rights in Austria and human rights elsewhere. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21790	Mr Riemer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the relevant provisions in the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21815	The sentence with the Roma – that was ironic. [[Call: Again]] I personally value Roma and also have some personal friends among them. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] But as I said, once again, the sentence is: [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Actual correction!]] [[Call:Mölzer-Ironie]] The Roma are found in § 65 and have fewer rights than the Italians and Hungary. – And it was meant that the Germans have less rights. Is that all right?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21895	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. [[Abg. Crochet: No actual correction!]] Mr Magnificent came to speak. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21927	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The death penalty is a relic of barbarians. The death penalty is Barbarian. Now in Austria we have executed the death penalty by Austrians for the last time in 1950, we abolished it in 1968, and today it is thank God abolished throughout Europe and prohibited except for two exceptions: Belarus and Russia. Unfortunately, it does not look like that in the rest of the world, including in friendly Western states as in the USA and Japan. But it is very bad, of course, in Saudi Arabia. The death penalty is a little bit like the torture in the Middle Ages for most of us: These are numbers – we have heard it today; we may have heard with horror two days ago that 529 people were sentenced at once in Egypt – and then perhaps occasionally a picture in a newspaper about an execution in Iran, where such a person hangs from the construction crane. I would like to use this word to bring you a little closer to what an execution really is. I have lived in Saudi Arabia for three years, and I have experienced about 60 executions quite closely. I would like to tell you now that this will have a little more meaning for you, and perhaps then the applications would become a little bit sharper and not so watered up once you have heard what it really is all about. There I was in my 11th office. Floor of a high-rise building – a corner office, glass windows to the ground – and looked down on a large square. At the edge of the square was a mosque around the corner a school and in the middle of the square a wooden structure, about five times five meters, one and a half meters high, that was the sheep's moth. This was a parking lot, and when you drove past the square in the early morning and the parking lot was locked down, you knew: Aha, this is execution! – By the way, the square was called by the foreigners Chop-Chop Square. And so after the midday prayer, one suddenly saw the crowds running out of the mosque and the students running out of the school to get ahead of others to be on the front to see the public execution better. Then the executioner will be dragged away. You force him to kneel on this sheep's moth, and then a guy comes in a long white dress with a huge saber – such a cream saber you can see on the flag of Saudi Arabia, the sword of the prophet. All screams: A blow, a blow, a blow! - and he gets it. Of course Saudi Arabia is a modern state. There's a small car with water, and it's being sprayed so the blood's gone. – This is a “normal” execution, but there are also special facilities. One day on the sheep's hoof was such a funny frame. I asked my Saudi colleagues what this is, and they said: Yes, today is a crucifixion!, in English: crucifixion. And I asked: What?!, but then I understood. Then the executed man was brought up on the frame, the head at the bottom of the feet, and was shown until the next prayer, so to speak as an additional humiliation, as an additional punishment. Of course, they also have problems with the apprentices there and with the profession, i.e. with the profession of the henker. – Once there were two henchers, and I asked: Why two? – Answer: Well, one is an apprentice. – And actually, that didn't go well, the apprentice didn't catch it. Obviously, it's hard to beat a human head with a blow. He hit a little too far back and the head was stuck with the skin off the neck. And there the “master” has stepped in, he hacked, and then it was gone. - That's what it looks like. The fact is: The barbarian I mentioned earlier is a social norm in Saudi Arabia. And that, Minister of State, may be the next time you meet the Saudi ambassador. This is certainly a very educated man, he probably studied in the USA or Switzerland, but that is the social norm of Saudi Arabia. The fact is: Saudi Arabia is one of the world's most restrictive regimes. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, and we support it with Western...!]] There one is executed for witchcraft, for blasphemy, for swearing Islam. The fact is that the exercise of religious fundamental rights, even in the private sphere, is undermined. The fact is, the Great Mufti of Saudi Arabia has called for the demolition of all Christian churches on the Arabian peninsula. By the way, there is no one in Saudi Arabia; the ones he thinks are of course on the rest of the peninsula, so in Oman and in the other Arab countries, which thanks to God are a little more tolerant than Saudi Arabia. Yes, and what does Austria do? [[Abg. Korun: A dialogue center!]] – In fact, Austria can build an interreligious dialogue centre from Saudi Arabia for a lot of money: a centre from which Wahabitian propaganda is operated and where an ex-politan is also provided. Austria thus offers the Saudis a stage to give itself a face of tolerance. Austria belongs to Europe, and Europe is more than just a geographical area. Europe is first of all a community of values. Saudi Arabia enters these values with feet. I believe that Austria and Europe must take a very clear position here. Nor should we be afraid to inform a regime like Saudi Arabia, with all due clarity, of our disdain for its system of values, I say quite consciously. Now, Mr Federal Minister, you are, of course, a bit in the Zwickmühle – there are the customs of diplomatic relations – but there are possibilities. I could present you a lot of ideas, how maybe these: The next time you go to Saudi Arabia for a state visit, please ask that there is also a public execution on the program. There are several each week. Between Jeddah, Riad and Dammam is always a place. Just want you to see that too. Not only visit museums or perhaps make a dive in the Red Sea, but also a public execution – just ask! Don't comment, don't rate, just say you want to look at that. See how your guests then react. That's just an example. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Well, there is, of course, the sad problem of oil, of which I am aware, but the question is: Are we standing at our ideals, at our values, even though it may be a little more difficult economically? Should we weigh human rights with economic interests? – I believe that for us Europeans the answer can always be: per human rights. Let us therefore set a sign of progress, human rights and tolerance, and therefore clearly for the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e21995	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22016	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What happens under the regime Kim Jong-us in North Korea ridicules every description. It is sufficiently described in the application, I do not like to bring any details – even after these descriptions. It is absolutely indisputable what is under human rights law in North Korea. Of course, we support the call for measures in Chapter VII of the UN Charter to be applied against the North Korean regime, also knowing that this is not easy, of course, because it will not be easy to enforce with the Chinese Veto in the Security Council and with the self-interests that China has in relation to the region. Nevertheless, I think it makes sense to simply put it in a political position to call on either the International Criminal Court in this matter or to set up an ad hoc tribunal on the issue of human rights violations in North Korea, simply from a global point of view, because, in part, many African states do not unjustly accuse the ICC, which is only used as an instrument against sinister African rulers. No, in fact, there are such on other continents too! Kim Jong-un would be one where a trial before the International Criminal Court would certainly be appropriate, so it would also be a good signal to create more acceptance for the ICC in general. Nevertheless, I also believe that dialogue with North Korea should continue. As we are talking about the international dimension of human rights, I would also like to stress that I consider it very important that there have been the conclusion observations of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, published at the end of last year, and that some human rights recommendations have been made to Austria by this Committee, including in Recommendation 10, to increase our resources for international cooperation, in Recommendation 11, to see that we are pursuing a better human rights approach in the area of development cooperation, trade policy and agricultural policy, and to the third, in Recommendation No 12 that Austria should also pay attention to how Austrian companies are engaged in their private economic activities abroad, how they are complying with human rights, and that Austria should set a more stringent human rights framework there. I think it is good if we take up these recommendations and also implement them, and I would like to conclude by reminding everyone of the situation of textile workers in Asia and inviting you to do so. Tomorrow we will have a fair trade exhibition in the column hall from 8.30 a.m. all day long in the context of Parliament's North-South dialogue, where there will be not only products to buy, but also where the focus will be on the issue of fair trade in the textile sector and there will be opportunities to make smart and inquire about human rights-compliant production conditions of all possible products, especially in the textile sector. – I look forward to seeing you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22049	Now comes Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22071	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to refer to Amendment No 280/A, to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Those of German-speaking groups in Slovenia and their recognition and anchorage in the Constitution. In principle, the census has resulted in 1,600 people – which is about 0.1 percent, i.e. a promill of the population – who are traditionally German-speaking. Their rights are mainly enshrined in cultural agreements and their work programmes. ==References== ==References====External links== Work Programme decided to apply for the period up to 2016. In principle, it recognises the German minority, but it does not enjoy special rights such as autochthonic groups, which are enshrined in the Constitution, and it fights for that. The ÖVP, Austria as a whole supports the demands of the German-speaking minority. We also support them financially, in cultural projects, but also in their efforts to be recognized as an autonomous group, so that it will then also be anchored in the Slovenian Constitution. There is a wealth of high-ranking advances. This also includes the use of high-level political meetings to draw the attention of the Slovenians to the fact that this is a desirable claim, especially since the then agreement under Foreign Minister Schüssel is only considered a first step. However, it is currently clear that the implementation of the cultural agreement does not work smoothly. The clubs and also the umbrella association of the clubs are not accepted as a hundred percent interlocutors, they are not always sitting at the negotiating table. That is why the umbrella association has responded with a letter to the President of the National Council, Prammer, so that Parliament can also act in order to improve communication. We from the ÖVP have taken this directly and have been looking for contacts. Our clubman Reinhold Lopatka has already launched special measures. He has been in contact with the seven associations organized in the umbrella association and is trying to advance the implementation of their wishes. From the foreign office, I know that our message in Liège is also particularly hard to give the German minorities in Slovenia a little more hearing than is the case at present. It seems as if after the conclusion of the cultural agreement, and especially after the work programme, the whole thing is getting a little bit in progress, and we should not let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22122	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22143	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! At the beginning of my speech, let me express a warm thanks to Mr Vavrik for describing his experiences, which have naturally been very close to the ground. I can imagine that it is not so easy to talk about such experiences here. I know this from my personal experience when I speak here and there of victims of child trafficking, who I have accompanied and cared for as a social worker, about victims of trafficking in women, where the effects of all these barbarians simply become so real. That is why I would like to thank you very much for your presentations. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] It also shows that human rights policy is a major challenge. Human rights policy is not a matter of well-being, not a matter of well-being, but it is a question of clear breaks of law, clear breaks of women's rights, of children's rights, of human rights, and we all have to deal with it. We all have to deal with these issues, and that is not so easy at all. Just think about how many girls get married, how many girls and young women must survive painful circumcisions, with lifelong physical and psychological consequences. Consider the sexual exploitation of women and girls, but also all forms of so-called harmful practices based on tradition, culture, religion or superstition. It is about the imposition and execution of the death penalty. It's about executions. It is about dealing with LGBTTI people, that is, clear legal rules against homosexuality. It is about the situation of textile workers, the modern slaves for the customers in the west. And it is about the unimaginable traumatizations of victims of human and child trafficking. In principle, it is positive that the Committee on Human Rights was able to reach a consensus in the decision-making clause, but the key challenge in human rights policy – and this is, of course, primarily for the Ministry – is implementation. As Parliament, as a ministry, as individual Members, I have, of course, also the obligation to see how such decisions can actually be implemented and how much money can be taken into account so that they can actually be implemented. And it is up to us and the ministry to set clear signs in this regard to take clear steps so that these decision-making formulas will not only remain formulas but will actually be implemented and the respect of human rights will result. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Child trafficking can't be a cavalier crime. It's about prostitution, it's about betley. It is not only about theft, it is also about pornography, it is about budget cheap work. And Austria, that must not be forgotten, is one of the transit and destination countries. Not only does it need identification, but it needs special care and support for children and young people to get back under their feet so they can get out of their traumatization. The protection of children's rights is always the subject. I personally think that's a good symbol. With regard to life-long prison sentences for under 18-year-olds in the US, it is natural to say that the initiative is welcome and that, of course, the Foreign Minister also has a clear role to play and also needs to make it clear. But in the context of the death penalty, which is also imposed in some states in the United States, it should be pointed out once again that any form of death penalty simply needs to be punished and stopped. And, of course, the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a clear role to play.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22198	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22219	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning, something positive: I I am also very impressed how the work is done in the Human Rights Committee and that this works well across all political groups. What is perhaps to be criticised – Mr Vavrik mentioned this earlier, including Mr Korun – is the watering-up of the justification for the request for Saudi Arabia, because perhaps the government parties should consider whether this watering was useful on the basis of the descriptions that Mr Vavrik “has to do with it at the best” – under quotation marks. Mr Riemer, very briefly to you, very briefly: The sound makes the music! And that, I believe, is essentially crucial for us not to support your request here. The request of the government parties is much more sensible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] To something else, it is also about some other requests in this debate, about the care of the child-trafficking victims. I think that's very interesting. We have had a request from the Greens, which literally said that the federal government should work together with the countries to develop a concept for the care of victims of child trafficking. The motion was then also amended to a certain extent; it is now contained in the text of the resolution. The big question, however, was on the grounds that the government parties assumed that there is no possibility here of the federal government making minimum standards, which I cannot understand, because the federal government clearly has the principle legislation, which is why this is not understandable. But perhaps even more interesting in this context is – we had this discussion a few hours ago – to what extent kindergartens and all the care should be in federal competence. In Austria, we are not even able to discuss standards in child and youth aid at the federal level. That is really completely misunderstood federalism. How can I have different standards for the care of victims of child trafficking in the nine countries? That's completely absurd! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] On the request of the government parties concerning no life sentence for under 18 year-olds in the USA: Yes, of course, one can only agree with this request. It is an intolerable situation that there is still that. It is unbearable that the US has not signed the Child Law Convention and that it is in Somalia and other states. It's not understandable. But where we should perhaps think about it, the fact is that as an Austrian Parliament, we are not a good example. In the reasons for your application, you explicitly refer to the Child Law Convention. I find this amusing to a certain extent, or rather sad, if in Austria we do not even manage to regulate the entire Convention on Children's Rights. That's a little absurd then. I would like to appeal to colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP: Of course, it's up to you that we haven't done this yet. And then in such a request to justify: Well, the U.S. should adhere to the Convention on Children's Rights!, if we don't even make it ourselves, of course it's scurry. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Podgorschek.]] We will hold this discussion. I have already tabled applications in this context, including requests to the 3. Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on Children's Rights. We have not yet ratified this as Austria. In principle, it is about children having their rights under this Convention. and may seek individual complaints procedures. It is nice to sign such a convention, but if one does not give those affected the rights to enforce these rights, then the whole thing is more than absurd. Maybe you should take a little to the nose and say: Yes, we must finally implement and ratify this! What's not going on, that's that raisin pick. We now point our finger at the USA and say: Please, dear USA, finally do this with the Children's Rights Convention! But we ourselves have a lot to say about the Convention on Children's Rights, in particular this optional protocol. And, as has been said, we are pointing this out to the United States. It's just raisin picking. A short while ago on the Greens' request concerning the situation in North Korea. We have a situation similar to that of the Convention on Children's Rights. This is a state in which North Korea has not signed an international agreement, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Now there is the possibility that a State, although not signing this Agreement, may fall under the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court by obtaining the UN Security Council's referral to the International Criminal Court. Mrs Bayr has already mentioned this: This is going to fail quite safely in the veto of China. I still believe that it is very important that we as the Austrian Parliament say: Well, there are possibilities, and we have to ask for them too. I am sure, Minister Kurz, that this is also in your interest. We have to say this quite clearly here, because otherwise we have the situation that this idea that the International Criminal Court is a world human court does not go on. He has not yet had this opportunity, so we must, of course, continue to call for these possible measures. The important thing in this context is the following: There are already three heads of state who have been indicted by the International Criminal Court, on the one hand those of Sudan and, on the other hand, those of Kenya, on the other. Now we have a chance to sue a third head of state. This is, of course, a regime where, I believe, one does not understand and hardly understand the extent of human rights violations going on there, because the media situation is accordingly limited. You have to sue this regime and say: We have the opportunity to ask for this as an Austrian Parliament too! That is why I clearly believe that we must vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22322	Mr Bundesminister spoke briefly on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22344	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by thanking, as I believe, very constructive and detailed discussion in the Committee on Human Rights, that not only the discussion, but also this issue is very important to me, because I believe that the basis of Austrian foreign policy should not only be Austrian interests – it is quite clear that they are – but of course our values, which we know and appreciate in Austria, should be a basis of Austrian foreign policy and must also be. Unfortunately, we have had to experience God again in the last few weeks – and the descriptions of Mr Vavrik have also reflected this in detail – that both the death penalty and the executions continue to be of terrifying importance. And unfortunately, in Saudi Arabia, in Egypt and also in Iran, we have had to observe and experience in recent weeks that human rights violations are still on the agenda. Often one rejoices in praise. Sometimes, however, we are also delighted with criticism, such as in the current case regarding our message in Iran, when the High Representative Catherine Ashton met in the Austrian Embassy in Iran with women's rights activists and we immediately negotiated a strong criticism of the Iranian government. In this case, I can only say: Let us be glad about this criticism! We accept them, but of course we are fully committed to this event and are also pleased that Catherine Ashton has used our event spaces at the Austrian Embassy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as representatives of Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] At the moment, we have not only the opportunity to send these small signals and also to condemn or to speak in the media, but also to make a big contribution in the human rights organization. Austria is currently chairing the Council of Europe and we have the opportunity to pursue well-elected priorities. These are the rights on the Internet, the fight against trafficking in human beings and also the fight for freedom of expression and, in particular, the protection of journalists. We organised numerous events and were able to send an important signal, especially with the big event here in Vienna, together with the OSCE and the Council of Europe, in the fight against trafficking in human beings. I would like to thank all the parties involved for their cooperation, which will enable us to live up to this Presidency properly. But I am also aware that of course not all priorities are planned. In this respect, it is no surprise that the events in Ukraine in particular have led to the Austrian Presidency receiving a completely new and additional focus, namely to make a contribution in Ukraine. We are pleased that the government in Ukraine has adopted the offer of the Austrian Presidency and the Council of Europe and that we can not only make a contribution to the constitutional reform as the Council of Europe, but that we are also involved in the investigation of the crimes and human rights violations in Majdan and that an expert from the Council of Europe is represented in a Commission. We are glad that it was possible to send minority protection experts to Ukraine who are dealing with the situation of minorities. That is, I believe, not only a necessary basis for peaceful living together in a state, but in particular the Russians' argument for their actions, and therefore now a very central task to achieve satisfaction in Ukraine. I would also like to address one point which is also a personal concern to me, not only because of the discussion in the Committee, but above all because of that, because I made a visit to Slovenia immediately after this discussion and was able to address the topic of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia directly. It was good that there was a clear signal from our committee meeting. When I arrived in Slovenia, the result of our committee was already in all the media. I have used the opportunity to address the situation of the German-speaking minority to all government representatives, the President, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] We do not only have the task of contributing financially and supporting the cultural programme of associations. We don't just have the task of keeping in touch with these clubs. I am very grateful to the Ambassador for doing this very intensively – even beyond our visit. In addition, I believe that we have quite clearly the opportunity to strengthen the rights of this minority and the legitimate interests of the German-speaking minority. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to achieve success with regard to their constitutional recognition – and so honestly one must be. This is our declared goal. We will continue to do so and have received positive signals from the Slovenian Foreign Minister on this visit. The President and also the Prime Minister, however, unfortunately were much more uniplomatic of God and, in fact, have made it very clear that they see no need for this at present. We will stick to this issue, which is the focus for the German-speaking minority. At the same time, we will continue to support the cultural programme, see it as a positive first signal that there is also support from the Slovenian side here, and of course we hope that we will be able to take into account our project in the medium term and that the corresponding and necessary recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia will come in the medium term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22431	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22452	Madam President. Minister! High house! "Children's trade concerns children in industrial and developing countries. Children affected are abused as prostitutes, forced to marry, illegally adopted; they are cheap or unpaid workers, working as domestics, as beggars, are used in armed conflicts and in dangerous sports. Through child trafficking, they are exposed to violence, sexual abuse and the risk of HIV infection. Your rights to protection, to a safe environment and to training are violated. In order to end child trafficking, international, regional and national cooperation is necessary, as well as addressing the main causes such as poverty, discrimination, exclusion and violence as well as the problem of demand.” – As far as UNICEF’s words are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is unfortunately also affected by its situation as a transit and destination country of child trafficking. According to UNICEF estimates, there are 1.2 million victims of child trafficking worldwide each year. And right at We are all called upon – as Niki Berlakovich has already said – to put action on this sensitive issue. I therefore believe it is important and correct that there is already a “workgroup on child trafficking” in the Federal Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth, which is currently drawing up guidelines for child and youth assistance, the police, the actors in the asylum and foreign law proceedings, the enforcement and health of the professional identification and care of the victims of child trafficking. But I also expect special training from social workers for the future, but also from police officers to identify victims of child trafficking as soon as possible. Furthermore, there should also be a networking of the federal states and a common approach to the care and identification of victims of child trafficking, because children have the right to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22501	Mrs Delegate Diplomat Kauffrau Pfurtscheller is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22525	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As a new human rights spokesperson of the ÖVP, I took part in the 12th session. The first meeting of the Human Rights Committee was held in March. So please allow me, in my short speaking time, to make a general statement on the issues which are being debated today from our committee. I am convinced that all these topics deserve your attention and approval. Of course, the requests made by us to recognise the German-speaking minority in Slovenia and to abolish life-long prison sentences for under 18 years old in the USA are particularly important to me. In terms of content, my colleague Maria Fekter has already responded, or my colleague Friedrich Ofenauer will go into it in detail. But also the Greens' requests – and I am not here to say this, my dear colleague Korun – are absolutely supportive. In particular, I am referring to the request concerning the aggressment of crimes against humanity in North Korea. The current report by the UN Investigation Commission on the human rights situation in North Korea shows scandalous conditions and confirms those who go through the media over and over again. It is now up to the international community to take unmistakable steps here, and we are all called upon to make our contribution. In general, I believe that our committee differs significantly from the others: It is not a matter of priority here of matters, laws and budgets, which are, as admittedly important as well, in our committee, mainly about the direct circumstances of life of people, about their own right to personal freedom and decent existence – both domestically and abroad. As far as foreign affairs is concerned, our possibilities are unfortunately ending and successes are only possible in laborious, long-lasting processes. Nevertheless, or precisely that is why we as Parliament have the task of tirelessly pointing out and addressing abuses. Just remembering that two days ago more than 500 people were sentenced to death in Egypt under absolutely questionable circumstances and are to be condemned in the next few days, one can see which unworthy states unfortunately exist in many countries of the world. I am very happy and happy that we have our Ministers for Europe, Integration and External Affairs, Sebtian Kurz – very open and committed to human rights. He has already told us in the Committee that he wants to address human rights violations on every occasion in the countries concerned and has already addressed them, just as he has done today in his speech. Our Minister has also given an immediate opinion on the death sentences in Egypt and has strongly protested. Ladies and gentlemen, We all, across all parties, stress on every occasion that it is our highest command to make politics for the people. Please note that human rights policy has the highest priority in the sense of these efforts and therefore needs all your support and cooperation! We from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will continue to be very committed to our contribution. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22589	Mr Muchich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22611	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! The Human Rights Committee is a committee that is very deep on issues, problems and all the issues where human rights are really seriously violated, and death sentences and executions. We have discussed many things in the last Human Rights Committee and, as I believe, we have also discussed very objectively. Among other things, with regard to the many deaths occurring on construction sites in Qatar, this has not yet been mentioned. According to reports, there are 20 construction workers a week fatally, only so that in 2022 a football World Cup can take place, where the whole world will sit in front of TV screens, watch and cheer the athletes enthusiastically. I think that the task of this committee is also to become active in this regard. I am now allowed to express briefly the position of the SPÖ Group on the two requests concerning the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia. The fact is that both applications have the same content – both the application from the FPÖ and the request from the government parties – and have the same objective. Finally, the essential difference lies only in the wording of the motion for a resolution on how to achieve this objective. While the government parties are very clearly in favour of seeking the way of bilateral talks, in order to achieve the objective as already achieved by the minorities of Italy and Hungary, the resolution of the liberals is otherwise formulated by saying that it is necessary to introduce all measures by the Federal Government to official recognition. That means, it's just this small substantial difference. We have also discussed and discussed this in the Committee. I think our path is the more diplomatic. Here you put on the Diplomacy, while the path of the FPÖ is rather aimed at a power act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] We also know that the German-speaking minorities in Slovenia are not discriminated against in terms of their human rights, but are about special rights, as already reported in detail. Let us therefore take advantage of the possibility that we will take a unanimous decision in plenary today on the request of the government parties so that the Federal Government and, ultimately, our Foreign Minister can continue to make a positive contribution to the common objective in these discussions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22662	Mr Mag. Avenauer is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22683	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) According to the UN Convention on Human Rights, everyone has the right to life, and also in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 2 states that every person has the right to life and no one is allowed to be sentenced to death or executed. The right to life is indisputably the most important fundamental right of every person to protect. Nevertheless, there are states like Saudi Arabia or Egypt that do not do as we have heard. The European Union is a community of values in which the right to life counts a lot. And if we want to do something in the countries concerned, because it is not just Saudi Arabia, we need to act together with our partners in the European Union for the abolition of the death penalty. Austria is. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been pursuing the situation on the ground and has been working bilaterally and within the European Union for years to abolish the death penalty. I would also like to say that the National Council, with its resolution of 6. In July 2011, he became active and expressed his support for the active participation of Austria in the global abolition of the death penalty. Saudi Arabia, however, is not the only country in the centre when it comes to human rights violations. We have also discussed in the Committee the issue of life sentences for under 18 year olds in the USA. There is the Convention on Children's Rights that regulates criminal offences committed by persons prior to the completion of the 18th century. The death penalty or life-long imprisonment must not be punished. There must be the possibility of early dismissal. Some countries have not even ratified this Convention on this point. One of these countries is the USA. Austria and the EU have already repeatedly called for ratification of the Convention on Children's Rights towards the United States, but also to Somalia and South Sudan in the past. Especially children, young people, people under the age of 18 must be given the opportunity to take a second chance. However, it often doesn't matter to run around with the raised index finger, because then you only reap raised fists. That is why we must set a good example, and we are doing so in the European Union, which, as has been said, is a community of values. With the Charter of Fundamental Rights we show this outwards, but we also live it inwards. When we face the human rights situation in others If we want to improve countries, we can only achieve this through diplomatic means together with our partners in Europe. All those who are always hot against this common Union and are preaching supposed values at the beginning of the EU election should take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22729	Mr Mag. Unterrainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22750	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! Talking about human rights also means talking about Hungary. Orbán is Europe's child of concern. This is a paradoxical situation, because it was the European Union that supported Hungary in the economic crisis. Without Union, Hungary would probably have gone bankrupt. What's the thank you for that? – The economic crisis has long since come to the political crisis. That is to say, in Hungary, a certain extremism already exists: no word about right-wing radical attacks on Roma and Sinti; no word for the continuing diffamation of the Jewish community. As far as Austrian-Hungarian relations are concerned, it is above all the incessant accusations against the 200 Austrian farmers in Hungary who are burdening our relations. Investment protection agreements, which we are discussing today, are already under way. Without the European Union, Hungary would already be bankrupt today. The Austrian farmers in Hungary provide a significant economic performance in Hungary. A expropriation placed in the room can never be the reward of this work. What about the rule of law and human rights? In conclusion, however, let me say one more word on extremism. Only these days did we have an extremist individual case in Austria. We know in which party, right, the one with the three letters: FPÖ. Lords of the FPÖ! Violence always begins with the spoken word, as well as persecution and discrimination. [[Calls of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] Your FPÖ mill last compared the European Union with the terrorist regime of the Nazis. This comparison is not only inadmissible but deeply irresponsible. If you had learned history and above all understood it, you would distance yourself from your colleague Mölzer! But good to get rid of the darkest past, that's never been your strength. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] If it were your strength, then Mölzer would no longer be part of your party. This kind of politicians will have no future for human rights. We need politicians who really love the rights of minorities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22801	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22823	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr. Minister! I would like to talk about something that happens almost in front of our doorstep, namely in our neighbouring country Hungary. In our neighbouring country Hungary, about 500 000 Roma live. They are often excluded, criminalized and terrorized by the majority of the population, with the support of the party of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Fidesz. Hungarian Roma often live under conditions that are known from the Third World: without sewerization, without heating, without gas and without electricity. And they don't get a chance to improve their lives. An example of many: In the city of Ózd, the city administration has cut off a very poor Roma settlement from the water supply last August. For the reason, Fidesz mayor said that Roma were wasting water and that the city could not afford to do so. It's bad enough that a city turns its citizens off the water. It is even worse, however, that a Swiss aid organisation has provided €5 million to the city of Ózd, specifically to ensure the water supply for this Roma settlement. This is the one side of violence against Roma in Hungary. In addition, there is widespread anti-ciganism in the population, which is instrumentalized by the government in order to divert from its own mistakes. The third side is still rational: Almost every day, wary members and sympathizers of the right-wing Jobbik movement move through Roma settlements. They destroy, hurt, and kill them out of racism. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is happening in front of our doorstep. This is happening in the EU, which has decided on the Charter of Fundamental Rights. There Article 21 clearly states: ‘Discriminations, in particular on grounds of sex, race, skin colour, ethnic or social origin () shall be prohibited.’ Ladies and gentlemen! Looking away is not a solution. We are obliged to draw the attention of Hungarians to the fact that European fundamental rights also apply in Hungary. The Hungarian Government is responsible for its implementation. That is why my appeal to you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, is: Make it clear to the Hungarian side that the daily discrimination against Roma is unacceptable for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e22874	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 12. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 47 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 85/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on executions in Saudi Arabia, annexed to the Committee Report 47 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 10.) We shall also vote on item 13: the resolution relating to the care of child trafficking victims annexed to the Committee Report 48 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 11.) We shall also vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 49 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on Agenda item 15: the resolution on recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia, annexed to the Committee Report 54 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 12.) We shall also vote on Agenda item 16: the resolution attached to the Committee's report 55 of the Supplements on the aggressment of crimes against humanity in North Korea. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 13.) Finally, we come to the vote on item 17: the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 56 of the Supplements on no life sentence for under 18 years in the USA. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 14.) TOP 18 has been dropped from the agenda. [[21:23:36]] 19. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 147/A by Dr Josef Cap, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the ORF Act (73 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 67/A(E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, Mr MSc, colleagues on ORF: Party policy out, genuine independence pure (74 d.a.) 21. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Public Service Promotion Act 1984 (75 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23034	We come to points 19 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23065	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Let me, ladies and gentlemen, address all three points of the agenda to be debated in my next speech in the short term. I would like to begin with the motion 147/A, the Federal Act amending the ORF Act, and I would like to maintain from the liberal parliamentary club that we take note, of course, of the fact that it is a legal amendment which, due to the findings of the Constitutional Court, becomes necessary to the ORF Act, essentially as regards the election of the fax to the ORF Public Council. This is a legal cleansing that would support us in this way. If I would use the word 'worship' and the conjunctiv, I do so consciously, ladies and gentlemen, because we see a possibility when we have debated and debated the ORF law in the Constitutional Committee, to continue working on it in terms of content and to implement an overall reform together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is to say, we should recognize the opportunity and also take the opportunity not only to leave it when it comes to legal cleansing, but also to go deep into matter. That is why I am also making the request for referral back to the Constitutional Committee on the part of the Liberals' Club to pass on the ORF in matter itself with a reform of the ORF Act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am already at the second item on the agenda to be discussed, TOP 20, the Greens' request entitled "ORF: Party policy out, genuine independence pure’. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like, based on the debate in the Constitutional Committee, to say to the liberals that we understand the thrust of this Greens' request, to be able to appreciate it accordingly, but yet have a different access in essential areas. I would like to know this in so far as it is clear that the Greens, in their request, are very much depositioning, that they will take politics out of their responsibilities completely and at this time, and that, as they have written themselves, they will be putting NGOs in there, especially with regard to the Foundation Council. We believe that this approach by the Greens may have been well meant, but not to end. On the one hand, the committee itself has not adequately resolved the problem of the selection of NGOs – it is, in our view, an important point that NGOs are not democratically legitimised, and it is not determined who should be allowed there, who does not have the honour to assume decisive responsibility there. On the other hand, from our point of view, It should also be noted that, as long as the ORF is a public-law institution and a fee authority is granted to the ORF, of course, representative democracy, i.e. also the federal character of the country must be represented in the Foundation Council. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an approach, perhaps even the essential difference to green access, and we also say that it is an approach, since policies are substantially declining in order to eliminate the currently unbearable gap towards government power through the direct sending of councils or members of the Foundation Council directly by the Federal Government. This would also create a solution for the Federal Minister, who, a year ago, in his capacity as the Secretary of the Media, meant that the number of Foundation Councils should be reduced. This means that there is a rupture on the part of the government, which is not to be argued by anything, and of course it should be reduced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the future, I would also like to renew the offer that has already been made by our side in the Committee, since there is clearly a will of several opposition parties here to reform the ORF, to implement this ORF law, namely to work out such applications together in the future and to put them on a common, broader basis. I believe that we can do a lot of things in the sense of this public-law institution. Finally, I would like to say that, as with many other points which are constantly under discussion, the Federal Government has missed a plausible justification for this step set out in this proposal, and on the other hand, in the area of the educational institutions concerned, planning security will be undermined in this area – and I would even like to go a step further, the work of these educational institutions will be made more difficult by the present text. That is why we will not be able to agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23159	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23180	As far as the question of legal clearance is concerned, I do not think that much should be said. We discussed this in the Constitutional Committee. We have been stopped by a decision to do so. This is now also taken into account so that the Foundation Council can take up the six members nominated by the Public Council and can thus continue to safeguard the Stiftungsrat's ability to act, which is important so that the ORF can continue to fulfil its tasks. - That's one. The other thing is: Whenever reform is mentioned, I do not understand what it means. You have to put an analysis on the table before, as I mean, and show defects. I would also be interested in this because the ORF is in a very positive situation in international comparison with other public authorities – we have already discussed this in the Committee. He's got the highest power ratios on the radio, on television. The reform steps of the last years in which he has tried to get out of the red figures have been effective, and the ORF has really fulfilled the requirements. Perhaps, as far as social networks are concerned, he should be given better opportunities to develop better, which would also be a necessary step and could lead to an improvement in the revenue side. There was a working group in the Federal Chancellor's Office, where there was also someone from the Freemans. Each of the experts who came from abroad and talked about their models and their conceptions, expressed a positive opinion at the beginning of his speech on the situation of the ORF and its development. So I see no reason why you should meet at the Roman Forum now, as the Greens seem to plan, and install a board from members of undefined NGOs, which is then renewed as at the ÖIAG itself. Public law should in fact be deprived of the public and legal persons, and there should be a self-employment of those who have been determined in accordance with the random principle. That can't be a concept. They were perfectly right, I am now saying this to my previous speaker, that re-sentiative democracy must be pictured. That's exactly what's happening in the 35-member board of foundations. I understand that as an opposition party, you say you have a representative in it, that's not overcrowded, I understand, I can understand. In 2001, there was a legal change under the bowl, which subsequently proved to be very practical and very wise. It was in the final effect this reform, which brought with it more legal responsibility for the Foundation Councils and is balanced. The representative democracy, the countries, federalism, the parties, the public council, as well as the Foundation Council can be found here. He has always proved himself capable of action. At the time, the Director-General had even more legal opportunities, something that was always criticized earlier. It was a certain degree of depoliticization in the sense that at that time, for example, Westenthaler, Khol and I were no longer inside, we were in the ORF curatorium, without legal responsibility and liabilities. There have been steps taken. It turns out that this is representative. It has become apparent that it is operational, and it has been shown that the entire company is successful in international comparison and enjoys very high, yes, highest acceptance for those who consume this programme. From this point of view, one can discuss this – the better is always the enemy of the good – where there and there one can still make improvements, but on the whole, I think, if one is radically formulated, then one should also bring this analysis, which then supports and then also reasons it, because otherwise no one can understand it. So that would be the argument. Otherwise, of course, we will agree with this today, because, I think, this is the right way to really do this repair.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23239	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23262	Madam President. Minister! I always wonder what debate Josef Cap is reporting here when he reports the praises of all the international experts about the ORF. He was apparently at an event other than me. In particular, the question of party political influence in Austria has by no means been highlighted positively by the experts. The law-making of this so-called legal settlement also speaks for itself. He doesn't like to listen to that now, Josef Cap, but that doesn't matter. There is a carrier rocket coming into Parliament, then the government parties are negotiating for weeks on how to formulate it exactly. And the pledge of the ÖVP was apparently they want to nominate two of the six that are now nominated by the public council if you can give the newspapers faith. The SPÖ has won four. Now we assume that there were still some parallel deals, because four to two are not entirely in line with the size ratio. There will already be something related to any EU rules and posts there. Always the same game. That's really unworthy. We held a debate at the invitation of the then Secretary of State for the Media Ostermayer on the question of reforming the bodies. By the way, no one understands, it obviously does not understand the ORF journalists either. Josef Cap knows that. It doesn't understand the editorial board, it doesn't understand a Peter Huemer, it doesn't understand Bergmann. No one understands anything. The only one who understands this is Josef Cap and the SPÖ, who clearly says: We want to have as much influence as possible on the ORF. We want as many as possible sitting in there to be formed in circles of friends. Excellent term, “friend circle”, is super in the ORF. Now I don't really know how it is, because the circle of friends also has the possibility of transferring his voice in the board of foundations. That's where 17 SPÖ friends sit. One remains there, 16 can go home, and one has the absolute majority in the Foundation Council in the future – a wonderful concept of democracy. And you can also make fun of the fact that civil society is apparently not democratically legitimate. I'm just wondering how to get that idea. If the law, as it is nominated through civil society institutions – by the way, the same applies to the public council, there we also have the nominations inside – if this is not supposed to be a democracy-political legitimacy, then I do not know what it is. You can still put 20 in there, you can also tell that the elections are lost because the ORF invites any opposition politicians to debate and you do not enforce that there the Federal Chancellor does not need to discuss, that is all wonderful, just so on. The success has already been given. But definitely with – how was that? – to get the legitimacy and to say the only thing that legitimizes a public-law position there, are party representatives inside, so I don't start at all. I think it would be a very good step if the party representatives from the ORF bodies were outside. By the way, there was an interesting judgment in Germany yesterday, which, although not fundamentally excluded from the political representation, significantly reduced the ZDF. By the way, there also a discussion when they say – yes, directly politician, eh, wonderful. [[Abg. Cap: There are five prime ministers inside!]] If two thirds are no longer allowed to be occupied by politics there, this is also a signal that comes. Josef Ostermayer will now certainly explain it as in the Committee, namely that a model, that means that politics is no longer true, is reminiscent of very bad times of Austrian history. I think that the state was still there in the debate. I don't understand. I believe that politics should stand out from the ORF as far as possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I am also bringing in the following amendment to improve at least this legislative novel, which cannot be nominated by a simple majority of the public council, but with a majority of two-thirds, which would mean that there is a need for a broader basis – this will now become a little technical lecture in order to bring it in properly –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let me say one more word about the ominous change of the Public Service Promotion Act, the next champion of democracy policy: There is a request – the NEOS in this case – to amend the party law. There is an amendment by the Government, an §-27 request by the Government to amend the Public Service Promotion Act. In the Committee no one says a word on the intention of the request, but it is simply put to the request. This is a marginal change in the disbursement of the promotion of publicity, which will be paid out later, as far as it is still inside. The coronation was then that the request you put on it, namely the request from the NEOS, has also been postponed. So there is a main request which we are going to delay once, for the amendment we do not even say a word. And that'll be in plenary. So re-government, you really learn something about how it goes. One does not even argue that in a night and fog action two hours before, one makes a request that comes, excluding parliamentary debate, wonderful. This is democracy policy apparently brand Josef Cap and SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23345	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23431	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23452	Madam President. Federal Minister! It has already been said a lot about the amendment that we are now introducing in second reading. The Rules of Procedure require me to read them: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as the formal amendment is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, to the remarks of my previous speakers only briefly. For me, it was surprising that something has occurred here, which has not been the case for many years, namely that SPÖ has praised the Black and Blue Federal Government, the amendment of the 2001 ORF law. It is interesting that this time a criticism of the FPÖ has come, which at that time, together with the ÖVP, decided in this way. Mr Brosz is also to be noted: The fact that the German Federal Constitutional Court has now decided on the TV Council in Germany is that what we have already predicted in 2001 is because, according to the ORF Act, “Members of the Federal Government, State Secretary, members of a national government, members of the National Council, the Federal Council or any other general representative body, or the European Parliament, are persons who are members of a political party or have a leading role of a federal or national organisation of a political party, and Volksanwälte, the President of the Court of Auditors and persons who have exercised one of the above functions within the last four years, are no longer entitled to be members of the ORF Councils. Mr Brosz! This depoliticization, to which Germany has now been called, has been carried out 13 years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to address one point because we are talking about public broadcasting. In a “profile” interview, Armin Wolf once said that one cannot really explain the health reform in the “ZiB 2” that it is too complex. [[Abg. Cap: “ZiB 3”!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] He was right for the 'ZiB 2', but he had a problem with it, it was not reported in the 'ZiB 3', Mr. Cap, and it has not been reported in another television broadcast. This is the point we, I believe, need to talk about. Public-law broadcasting must also be complex, because public-law broadcasting must be different from Boulevard media. And I believe that we must pay attention to this, even if we look at the ORF law again, if we also want to put an emphasis on it here, we must make it possible for complex topics to be pictured in the ORF. It is simply about bringing issues such as the introduction of administrative jurisdiction, a century reform that we have made. It is a question of identifying ways out of the financial crisis and of making comparisons and analyses different for Iceland, Ireland, Spain and Greece. It is also about talking about scenarios, why Angela Merkel is taking a different course to deal with the financial crisis than Stephan Schulmeister. These are interesting questions that citizens do not always understand: Why does one say A and the other B? In my opinion, a public-law broadcaster has the education mission to go in with more quality, and he does not have the task – and there I distinguish a bit from my previous speaker, from my coalition partner – to look only at the quota, but I believe that one must try to reconcile quota and quality, but in case of doubt more for quality than for quota. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is, I believe, a very crucial point. The ORF is not about playing blockbuster, but it probably belongs to the private radio or private television area. But in public-law broadcasting, I think, all Austrians must again have a chance to get all offers for higher education made available. That's the job for me. According to § 4 of the ORF Act, the ORF has to provide: “for the comprehensive information of the general public on all important political, social, economic, cultural and sporting issues” et cetera. Only in the eighth place is “the performance of entertainment. ” I sometimes have the feeling, especially when it comes to the main evening program, that the performance of entertainment is on one place. In my opinion, we must bring public-law broadcasting precisely to the point that it is an educational channel for the Austrian population and that there is the quality that is not offered in other media. This is different from a public-law broadcast, which is borne by fees and which is not to be determined by quota alone.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23560	The amendment just tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Ertlschweiger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23584	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The ORF belongs to a newly established and finally liberated from the claws of the party secretariats. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's a fact. As it has already been mentioned today that since the reform 2001 politicians are no longer allowed to be active in the supervisory bodies of the ORF, I have to say that this work is actually doing mid-mans of the parties. It's not a secret either. And why the amendment of the Constitutional Court as a result of the abolition of the fax election is not at last used for depoliticization is not a secret either, because the SPÖ and the ÖVP simply want three things at the ORF. It is about three things: about influence, influence and influence. Political parties are primarily concerned about their influence on the staff and on the programme and only in the second line about the ORF. And whoever claims the opposite, unfortunately, does not know and is far from reality. That's a fact. For the Stronach team, two things in terms of ORF are central. First: When do the government parties finally have the courage to depoliticize? And second: When will the penalty fees finally be abolished? Every Austrian who owns a TV has to pay 350 € annually at forced fees, regardless of whether it consumes ORF programs or not. That's about 600 million euros a year. And that's what we're talking about with American series. This has already been mentioned today. That can't be in the sense of fees. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is also a fact that the ORF bodies belong to reduced bodies. The Stiftungsrat, which is responsible for the control of economic agents, is much too large, and the public council, which de facto represents the interests of listeners and seers, finally belongs up-to-date. At the moment, this body has no power at all, and the choice is cumbersome and extremely expensive. The central question in terms of ORF is for me: Are the government parties finally moving towards liberalisation and towards a broad discussion process or are they not moving? If I use the last joint discussion of the media speakers as an example, I regret to say that they are not moving. In my opinion, SPÖ media speaker Dr. Cap has raised the issue of recasting the press promotion and in general very well summarized media policy. Because, Dr. Cap, on my specific question: If we sit at a table together, all parties, experts et cetera, do we discuss the whole thing wide?, you said to me: I'm sorry, you're kidding me! [[Abg. Cap: Yes!]] That is exactly our problem in Austria, ladies and gentlemen: this “memorial, mean”! But we will not continue in this way – neither in the ORF nor in the field of the economy or in other things. I say: Let's do it! Let's change something to improve! Let's get it started!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23633	Mrs Lueger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23654	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ertlschweiger, I cannot agree with what you just said about the ORF, because if there are no more fees, how should this work? And if everything's always going down, how's it going? But I am now coming to my actual point, and I would like to refer to the promotion of publicity. This is about international political education. One thing was already clear: that there should be a more uniform distribution of financial resources and that, as a result, better planning can be achieved. The point of the request that we made in the Committee that the additional amount be paid for the additional appropriations at the beginning of the second half of the year was precisely that the plan would be better. And that is where I hope for your agreement!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23685	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23706	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The public or the published discussion about the ORF, in particular about the occupation of the public and foundation council, produces, in other words, an unbeautiful picture of politics. One could also say: a ridiculous picture of politics! This discussion revolves exclusively around ensuring political influence. In the newspapers you can then read what arithmetic is necessary to maintain the proportion. Why don't we spare ourselves? Why don't we forgive the Foundation Councils immediately after d'Hondt? We do this with the parking cards and gallery spaces sometimes. But this is a proposal which is not necessarily serious, contrary to the proposal put forward by the ÖVP team, namely to occupy the Directorate-General after the proportion. However, 50 percent of the votes were not sufficient to divide 100 percent of the Republic. You should finally ban this proportion from your minds. Mr. Cap! If you are talking about representative democracy in the bodies, then you cannot seriously mean it as you have formulated it. Even the Fee-refunding abuse for power control. They are constantly negotiating at ORF only about how you guarantee the greatest political influence possible. Faith You're serious, people don't notice that? This is just as transparent as it is, and this is probably the only contribution to transparency that the government parties can currently make in this internal political phase. We should ask ourselves what role the ORF should perform today and in the future. More: We should deal with whether we need an ORF that costs us 600 million € per year. No one asks the real question here: Why is the ORF even there? What do we need the ORF for? – A situation where media – by the way, just like all other companies – finance themselves, produce public-law content and train the fourth pillar of democracy for the benefit of society is actually the ideal state. The ideal condition is not that we afford a media house that compensates for a deficit that the market is supposed to be unable to serve. This may be the best possible solution, but certainly not the ideal state. I deliberately say “adequately”, but not to assume that the market can do this at the moment, but therefore to give the indication that we have to ask this question again and again – not every week, perhaps not every year, but at regular intervals. And if we come to the conclusion that we need and want the ORF, then it is in its importance strengthened by it. We do not want to discuss this today, but we want to discuss it, NEOS wants to discuss it. If we need the ORF – and we expect it today – then we have to ensure two things: Firstly, that the ORF acts independently and independently. Secondly, that the ORF will not be hindered in its development into a modern media house. On point one, on party independence: At present, we are about 89 percent away from this independence when we count through the Foundation Councils. We can achieve the independence of party political influence most effectively through structural reforms of the ORF bodies. That is why we also support Dieter Brosz's argument and his request in full. We also see large overlaps with our own concept in the concrete design. As well as the Greens – as well as the ORF's Editorial Board – NEOS also wants to transform the Foundation Council into a Supervisory Board of 15 persons. We would resolve the principle of self-renewal – that is what we are taking as a negotiating proposal – differently, but we can still negotiate it. In this way I can understand the criticism and skepticism of Mr Darmann at this point. Wait, I'll have to sign for a minute. There was a typing error. [[The speaker shall be presented to the speaker by a member of the NEOS Club who shall sign it.]] Of course, the right of hearing of the national leaders should be deleted, as proposed by the Greens. So, first point: Party policy out of the company ORF! Second point: The ORF should not be hindered in the development of a modern media house. The whole ORF Act aims to ensure that Austrian radio broadcasting – and this is also in its name – is carried out, especially in the field of radio and television. We NEOS believe that in 2014 the ORF may choose the technical means to carry out its mission itself. The ORF is a public-law media house that can not only act as a meansgnostic, but even has to. The risk of the ORF publishing a new daily is still rather small. It is more about the ORF moving in a direction that is now almost impossible for it: the development of new technical formats, in particular mobile applications and social media. Limiting the reception of content in social networks and digital platforms undermines the rights of fee payers to be provided with this public service contract. That's why at the end of 2012, I also introduced an individual presentation at the VfGH to remove the social media ban, which was supported by NEOS, by individual greens, pirates and JuLis. Unfortunately, without success! Today, you have a unique opportunity to remove this obstacle in a short time. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] For the copies that have been provided to you, there is still a typing error inside which we have now corrected, and we have now made this corrected request properly. I am sure there is a majority in this House for this request. I hope you can jump over your shadows and, exceptionally, also vote in favour of a concern for the opposition. By the way: The average age of the “time in the picture” seers is nearly 60 years, i.e. approximately near the de facto pension age. The ORF is required to create new access here and at least to approximate this value to the average age in the population, which is about 40 years old. Of course, such new offers do not automatically lead to use, but without these offers there is no even the chance that they will be used.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23848	You have just succeeded in bringing your motion for a resolution to the House, Mr Alm. It is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23925	Mr Brosz has spoken again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23946	Madam President. I would like to express my opinion only shortly on this request from Mr Alm and declare that we agree with this request, as it were, from the point of view of content. I would like to point out that this was precisely the reason why we did not carry the ORF law in the last revision: because in a night and fog action this online ban and these restrictions came in. However, I would like to point out that the final formulation of the application is certainly still to be worked out, because paragraph 25, as it is mentioned, refers to its own networks that the ORF itself would operate. In my opinion, this ban can remain what cannot remain the limitations in the forum discussions: the question of how to travel on Facebook, the question that is at all online appearances for a public-law station in the 21st century. ==References====External links== So we share the intention, although the request must certainly be improved from the wording. But something must finally happen here, because these restrictions cannot exist in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e23983	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote. On the agenda item 19 there is a referral request from the honourable Member. Darmann before. I shall immediately vote on the draft federal law amending the ORF Act, in 73 of the Supplements, to refer it back to the Constitutional Committee. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Draft Federal Act amending the ORF Act in 73 of the Supplements. The following supplementary or amendments have been tabled: a total amendment by Mr Brosz, colleagues, Amendment or amendment tabled by Dr Cap, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen. I shall first vote on the overall amendment mentioned, then on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an overall amendment. Whoever speaks out for this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. Deputies Dr. Cap, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the amendment to point 2 and the insertion of new paragraphs 3 and 4. I would ask those members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with the draft law in third reading, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: The draft committee's request to take note of its report 74 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mr Alm, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition by the ORF of the ban on the provision of social networks. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's not the majority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Draft federal law, which amends the Public Service Promotion Act 1984, together with the title and entry into 75 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:04:33]] 22. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (44 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the promotion of craftsmanship is passed (45 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24137	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24164	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The fight against undeclared work, the strengthening of the economy and the setting of economic impulses are welcome goals. Unfortunately, this craftsman bonus does not even make it possible to achieve this goal – and that says not only the opposition, but also well-known experts from the economy and from the field of tax advice. If you had sent this bill to the review, he would have been torn by the experts in the air. From the point of view of administrative simplification and the objective of efficient and slim administration, the following criticisms shall be made: The purpose of the funding is to provide an appropriate body, a so-called resolution agency, with a regulation. The activities of this resolution body shall then be examined by an auditor appointed by the Minister of Finance. The resolution agency shall also be subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. Finally, the financial offices should be informed of all the grants granted. It is also necessary to verify whether the expenses supported are not claimed as expenditure again in the tax declaration. The Federal Government therefore considers it necessary to deal with four different bodies in the control of this federal law. In this context, I would like to ask you to: Your government programme remembers: Form in the chapter ‘Debureaucratisation and discharge’ It is aimed at: “A massive reduction in costs and time spent due to bureaucracy.” Do you think that four different control bodies are debureaucratisation and administrative simplification?- Oh, my God! – So: You have clearly missed this goal in your government program! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The implementation costs for the resolution body to be determined in the way of the regulation are still completely unclear. These should not be available until the date of adoption of the Regulation. Why don't you think about it before? This would actually make sense and purpose of the impact-oriented impact assessment. I recommend the study of § 17 BHG 2013 to the authors of this government template. Moreover, it is expected that most of the promotions will be made available to craftsmen who would have been legally used without these promotions. Due to the considerable takeover and high implementation costs, this law will certainly not achieve the desired objectives. In addition, the level of support is too low. The maximum level of promotion corresponds to the 20 % VAT and is therefore not an appropriate incentive to reduce undeclared work. The funding of € 10 million for the first and € 20 million for the second year is also too small. This will not exceed 50 000 applications for support for both years. In this context, the first-come-first-serve principle should also be criticised, because those who already have the appropriate funds are favoured. The person who has to save the money for the housing renovation first laboriously together is disadvantaged because the pot will certainly be empty at the end of the year. Once again, it shows what the government means by justice. We propose the following alternative model: A single control body is completely sufficient, namely the Financial Office. That's how we save three more control points. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For reasons of justice, the craftsman bonus should not be designed as a promotion, but as a tax deduction or, even better, as a tax premium. In addition, not only the craftsmanship services should be favourable, but also care and care services, as in Germany and Finland. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] This is the more effective and efficient way to set economic impulses and combat blackwork. This model is completely inappropriate. The Minister of Finance shall, on the implementation of this Federal Act and on the resulting burdens to the National Council, not later than 31. ==References====External links== At the latest, I will remind Mr Vice-Chancellor of my statements today. For the Federal Government, four different control bodies are a “debureaucratisation” and “administrative simplification”! I guess it can't be. This law is a pure placebo law, costs more in the overall view than it brings – and therefore will certainly not find our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24265	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24287	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, I see this as a little different, of course, and I would like to say that this pilot project – and this is a pilot project – is particularly welcome in economic times not all too rosy, as it is positive impulses for those whom we now need, namely for small and medium-sized enterprises, which make an important contribution to the reduction of undeclared work and, of course, can also benefit from additional tax revenue. The Wifo says that this way more revenue is expected about the amount of funding, i.e. € 30 million. This is precisely the work done and not the material costs. Overall, value-added effects in 2014 are expected to amount to € 17 million and € 38 million in 2015. The craftsman bonus could also have a positive impact on employment, in any case it is estimated to ensure at least 1 100 jobs. So we can also see it positively and we need such positive-stimulating measures. ==References====External links== In March, it is read that the Federal Instigator of the Installer Mattes is pleased about this craftsman bonus, because he says that some customers who today have employed a neighbor or someone black for smaller orders will in the future receive an invoice from the professional and thus also the corresponding counter-performance. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the craftsman bonus is a pilot project. In times like this, we have available €10 million for this year and €20 million for next year, but 50 000 cases can be handled with this. I think it's a first positive signal. Let's look at Germany, there it has proven itself. In 2006, the shadow economy declined from €2 500 to €1 250 million. I think we can set positive impulses here. Let us now look at it for a year, after a year we will evaluate, and I hope that we can then expand the craftsman bonus accordingly and make it even more generous. A real signal, a pilot project at the right time. Successful is who implements! We prove it once more.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24332	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24353	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haubner, let us begin by saying that the craftsman bonus has proved itself in Germany. Well, there is the study of the Federal Court of Auditors, and in the press release it says: high takeover effects and insufficient control. And the recommendation is to abolish this very instrument. This is the experience from Germany. If you see this positively, I say positively, I would see a project where, for example, these €30 million for small and medium-sized enterprises are spent on innovation. A few hours ago, we had the award of the State Prize Innovation 2014. Great, great, innovative companies have presented themselves with their achievements. In view of the added value and the jobs created in this area, the money should be invested exactly there. If it's called "pilot project": For a pilot project and as a small gift to the President Leitel, it is simply too expensive, and it certainly does not have this effect that you have now carried out here. First: The takeover effects on this craft bonus will be enormous. And we will experience that in two years' evaluation of the Court of Auditors it will be said that it would have been better left. There are already the experiences in Germany, and there are enough studies that say that the money de facto is not really well arranged here, even in the sense of value creation. One thing I would like to stress here: Of course, it is our concern to reduce the number of black jobs. Of course, it is important to make a contribution to set regional economic impulses. To this end, I say, it is important to make a reduction in additional wage costs, and this with a social and environmental tax reform. That is exactly what we need to achieve a really good, positive effect for the economy. The Winddog principle “First come, first serve” has already shown in the eco-strom promotion that it is a completely miserable instrument for the award of funding and that this results in more negative effects for weitem than positive. So this is also a great criticism – and, of course, the administrative resolution. It will be necessary to examine whether other funding rails will also be used, for example the rehabilitation check. In this respect, high costs will be expected. Summa summarum is a little covered initiative to promote the economy, to relieve households, and therefore we will not agree to this legislative proposal today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24399	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24420	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add another point of view to the discussion. I believe that some of the colleagues will have heard that. When you talk to people in settlements with single-family houses who have worked out their own house with much self-sufficiency, you often hear the saying: The cell in the house replaces the craftsman. It's nice if it is, but it doesn't last a whole lifetime, and therefore many older people who live in a house are very, very happy when they find craftsmen who make improvements with reliability, with ability to renovate. So this craftsman bonus is also a social benefit and will be very gladly accepted by many. I'm convinced of that. I would like to mention another point because it is criticised: Why are the craftsmen promoted and not other sectors in the economy? – I would like to point out that very many craft firms carry out a very good apprenticeship training and that very good apprentices come from these companies. And an important point for the economy are good apprentices, are good skilled workers we need, they are urgently needed in many companies, even later in the industry. Of course, important is a customer-friendly billing, is a customer-friendly information. ==References====External links== July 2014 the promotion, this year € 10 million, will begin next year € 20 million. Then one will ask: What can be improved? I think many Austrians will benefit from this bonus, and he will be serving the building substance in Austria. The satisfaction with Austrian craftsmen is broad, especially in the federal states. They all know that the companies are very reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24453	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24475	Madam President. High house! Yes, we now have a draft law here, which once again subsumes what we have experienced more often in the past: A good idea is badly implemented. In principle, the idea is very, very good. Each of us who has once had a craftsman at home – perhaps there are some who have not yet experienced that, but I think most have – knows, the question comes back and forth: Do you need an invoice? And when you ask back, What if I don't need one? It will then be cheaper to value added tax. That is to say, one commits tax fraud here in order to save VAT. Now, of course, a refund, just as it is made in Germany, is a good thing about this question: Do you need an invoice? I would like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission is prepared to take a decision on this matter. This can also reduce the level of undeclared work and can not only affect profits taxes, but also taxes relating to turnover. If that is true, what you have said, that this measure is calculated, even more than it costs, then we could do it as in Germany and implement it as a tax deduction at the end of the year. And that's what you've kept silent. They have kept silent that it is a withdrawal amount in Germany, where you can put it right at the end of the year up to a maximum amount, which makes sense. Only then will it get more expensive. That's not a question. But You don't want it, you want to limit it to €10 million. If you go through it, you get it that's not going to work. The average craftsmanship, if you only calculate working time and the travel costs, is 300 €. Of these, €60 will be supported. So if you divide this, you come to 160 000 funding cases per year. 160,000! And, of course, for all these funding cases, you have also regulated what needs to be checked. It is necessary to examine whether it is a renovation, conservation or modernisation measure, as well as whether it is an existing housing. By the way, I wish you good luck to find out, because who can distinguish whether this is an existing living room or a newly built living room. Or it must also be checked: Is there already a loan under this title? Even there I wish you a lot of fun to find out. Further: Does it serve its own purpose? Okay, you can understand that in the registration register. But in 160,000 cases this will also be a great effort. Then you have to conclude a promotion contract and also establish a contract with the promoter. Then there is something else in the law, which is particularly interesting, namely: All these measures exclude abuse. – I’m already excited how many officials will then see if it’s actually the way it stands in the law, because you’re writing that the abuse is excluded. That's what I'm really excited about. It must be borne in mind that these 160,000 promoters are only those who come to the train. What do you think happens? There are five million who could use this in Austria. And they don't know if there's money. They don't know. That is to say, there will be much more than 160 000 applications from this funding body. And then more than a million people will have long faces. Furthermore, the law states that you need to inform any promoter why he has been rejected and, of course, send back the documents to him. must. And that for potentially five million promoters. Think about it once! So in the end, it's what it's probably supposed to be: a PR-gag. It's about the government pretending to be doing something positive. Then there is the Germans, who make it very wise, with a withdrawal amount, such as in the case of childcare services, because there is also a withdrawal amount. At the end of the year, you can file the costs and this will be credited accordingly. Why not here? If it's still supposed to bring about so much detour profitability that it doesn't cost anything. You could've done that, too. Hastes You sent the law in review, then many experts would have told you exactly the same thing, but it's only about a PR-gag to pretend activity here. Finally, nothing will come of it except high costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24541	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24562	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes I am even happy to go to the speaker's desk later on after Mr Lugar, because there are speeches to prepare, as you would like, you can always tear down Mr Lugar – first of all, because he has not read the law. Otherwise, he would not have said that there will be so many promoters and that 160 000 applications should be processed, because there is only 60 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Mr Lugar, this is a maximum of €600. It is true that the person seeking a promotion to obtain a craftsman bonus must not place it as a special issue. It must be an existing living room. It shall not have any aided loan. You've said that before. That means that there can be no 5 million potential promoters at all. And someone who might want to put off a repair or a rehabilitation effort as a special issue from the tax can not apply at all. That's what the law says. The financial office is also informed of this, so that no one can use a craftsman bonus and in addition claim special expenditure. There is a control and therefore no problem at all. I know you can still do more everywhere, you can still do everything better, but I have actually believed that we here in the House have agreed that we want to reduce the shadow economy, we want to reduce tax fraud, we do not want the private money either, and we want to reduce the resulting damage to the economy, the Republic of Austria and taxpayers. And so the craftsman bonus is now, Mr Haubner has said, a pilot project. I also believe that this is a good solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After all, we have repeatedly heard of the opposition: Many people have nothing at all from the possibility of tax deductions, because they do not pay wage and income tax. Now we try to give people a premium, up to €600 if the invoice of craftsmanship 3 000 € net, but I never hear anything positive. We have heard the criticism every time, we do something that does not bring anything to the people who are not liable for income tax. Now we're doing something, and it's not good enough! Mr Lugar and the others who have already spoken and do not approve of this have already been written in the main book: You have to decide what you are for! Mr Lugar, we have enjoyed your tax knowledge so properly today, my colleague Werner Groiß and I. They're talking about a deposit, and they don't know what that is. In Germany, it is a possibility of withdrawal and it is an exemption, also in Austrian tax law. And there you get. Then you only return the tax, the percentage you actually pay. So I would really know exactly before I practice criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will try this out, we stand by it, and we want to see neighbourhood aid and private money being restricted in the future. I'll tell you: I am convinced that if people see an advantage in the fact that the craftsman is putting an account on them, because they then have a guarantee for the craftsman's performance, then they will be given an account and will also be able to benefit from the craftsman bonus. We stand by it, it is a good solution, and we will continue to fight intensively against the shadow economy, the coup and the tax fraud, because it is our concern to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24642	Mr. Dr. Hable is now speaking. I would like to draw attention to this, Mr President, that the entire time of your club's stay is 3 minutes. That is, if you use up the 3 minutes now, there is nothing left for the next item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24666	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Dear citizens in front of the screens! Yes, the fight against undeclared work is of course a legitimate goal, we would also share that, but the solution that is now on the table is free according to the motto: Why easier when it's complicated?- Oh, my God! Some things have already been mentioned. In order to complete this whole promotion of the craftsman bonus, a separate resolution centre will be set up. In any case, a grant contract must be concluded. Even if this bonus, which is requested, is a little higher and, we say, with a 2 500 € bill – and that is more than most will have – 20 percent, that is 500 € can be recovered, we would have concluded 20 000 grant contracts in the first year and next year in the double budget 40 000 grant contracts. I wonder, Who should administer all of this? Who's going to control all of this? - I can't do that. Who has so much time to do this at the Financial Office or at this resolution agency? Of course, the financial office must also be informed, and the Federal Ministry of Finance has also been accused of being informed – as if they all had nothing to do. Then again and again these so-called value added effects are mentioned. That would be so good, because these expenditures, now 10 million and then 20 million, would generate value added effects. . I would just like to mention that these value added effects have nothing to do with the craft bonus. One learns as a VWL student in the first semester that all expenditure, whether it is private expenditure, whether it is government expenditure, has so-called multiplier effects. That means what is spent gets another one, and he gives it back. This is how it continues, and by doing so you always get value added effects automatically. This has nothing to do with the sensibleness of this measure at all. You'd do the same if you let people get the money. We are already on the real issue, on the real cause of black-and-collar work. Why do we have such a high unemployment rate? - Because the tax burden is too high! That's why people get involved in such a thing: because they just don't realize that they have to pay so much for what they get. The ratio between performance and counterperformance simply doesn't match any more. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ – and this is my appeal to you –: Turn the motto around! Say: Why complicated when it's easier? Let us go down the taxes and make the tax system much easier than it is now, so that citizens in this country can understand it too! Then we automatically have less blackwork and do not need such a bureaucratic monster in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24711	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24733	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the purpose of this law? [[Call at the FPÖ: You ask!]] The aim is to strengthen the fair economy, to put in place economic measures and to reduce undeclared work. The share of undeclared work in Austria is 8 percent of GDP. This means in absolute terms more than €20 billion. Although we are very good in the international comparison – we are second-place behind Switzerland, so it is practically a show country – but it is nevertheless important to take further steps to reduce the proportion of undeclared work. And, Mr Lugar, the Federal Government is taking active action here to do so. What is this about the craftsman bonus? – It is about promoting crafts and services in the area of the budget. What are the benefits? – work on renovation, renovation and modernisation measures of existing housing that must be located in the country, such as floor covering renovations, window exchange, painting and the like. Only work benefits – travel costs are included – are funded, not material costs. What are the conditions for promotion? – The performance must be provided by an authorised company, or professional, and must be charged in accordance with the statutory requirements. Work performance and travel costs must be specified in a specified manner. [[Abg. Lugar: Arguments! Let's hear arguments!]] The amount of the invoice must be paid by bank transfer to the account holder’s bank account. In addition, the measures will only be supported if they are put in place within a given period of time, namely after 30. ==References== This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. How high are the amounts available? – A total of € 30 million will be available for the funding model, which will be extended by the end of next year; 10 million for this year, 20 million for next year. The maximum amount of funding per promoter per year is 600 €, with a minimum invoice amount of 200 €. What does this mean by surplus revenue? – The fact that craftsmen’s benefits are increasingly transferred to the legal sector brings additional revenue on VAT, where appropriate on income taxes and on wage taxes, which would also benefit countries and municipalities. With regard to the positive effects, i.e. the recovery of the economy and the reduction of undeclared work, we will give this law our approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24779	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24801	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make the following request at the beginning: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this process has been in Finland for years and has been extremely successful. A similar example, similar to success crowned, exists in Luxembourg. Now I come to your request. He is, Mr Haubner, a parade example of how to really transform a good idea into nothing. They mentioned that the annual value added in the first year amounted to 17 million and 38 million in the second year. - Well, it's okay. They provide – or what you might call – 10 million in the first year, 20 million in the second year. The WIFO has found that more than €20 billion of value added is lost each year by undeclared work. The WIFO also says that approximately €5.3 billion of taxes are lost each year through the black work alone. That is why we are talking about social contributions, health insurance charges not yet – pure in taxes. And then you want to counter it with 10 million? [[Abg. Haubner: This is a first step!]] I am right now, this is a good approach – and I have never doubted that I have already addressed this to the Minister for Economic Affairs at the last speech – but I am concerned with €10 million. [[Abg. Tamandl: That you mention this too!]] It is in order that the administrative burden will cost much more than it will cost 10 million. And you can't say that the craftsman bonus is used to limit black work when talking about billions of €5 billion alone in lost taxes! Now you can't introduce a craftsman bonus for which you'll be providing ridiculous €10 million in the first year! [[Abg. Tamandl: That's only half a year!]] With €10 million – Look, you can speak again if you want. [[Abg. Tamandl: That's only half a year!]] You have also talked about creating 1 100 jobs. – Do you know, with 10 million € you don’t even finance 600 places in the so many famous ÜLAs. 570 times 17 300, then you have already reached the 10 million, and in the second year you will not even finance 1 000. That is to say, we have currently occupied 10,000 seats in the ÜLAs, which cost € 173 million in the year. And you provide €10 million for a craftsman bonus and claim to want to fight the blackwork?- Oh, my God! – So you know, except for an advertising gag, that's nothing. Leave You prefer to think about how to reduce the additional wage costs and how to reduce the tax rate! This would help the economy much more and fight the blackwork better than with this husch fuch.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24911	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Themessl, is sufficiently supported, it stands for negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24973	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e24994	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. The craftsman bonus is certainly not a cure when it comes to blackwork and the the reduction of undeclared work. Nor does it claim the sole right to perform or perform economic wonders. But despite all criticism, the craftsman bonus is, and perhaps one must stress, a first important step or another along this path. It is an incentive to obtain work from local craftsmen, an incentive to commission professionals and not prefer black work. It is a contribution to the additional boosting of the economy and, wherever it is concerned, to keeping value added in its own region. In my home country, the wine district, a border region – and I assume that it is the same in your regions – there are great craftsmanships, often family businesses that already run the company in the x-th generation and which also place great value on regionality and quality, but which, especially in this border region, also suffer from black work, but also through foreign competition. It's exactly them that this craftsman bonus benefits. 30 million in a year and a half, this is an important step in the right direction. I am convinced that the 2016 evaluation will also show this and hopefully lead to the continuation and expansion of today's pilot project.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25033	Next speaker: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25055	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The craftsman bonus is, of course, only a field attempt to reduce undeclared work, and for me it is also an instrument at least to reduce undeclared work. If we look at the figures of Professor Schneider from Linz, the proportion of black work in 2013 was about €7.5 billion in construction and craft businesses. This is also a field experiment because the craftsman bonus is currently valid from the middle of 2014 until the end of 2015. The amount of funding has already been mentioned: 10 million 2014, 20 million 2015. Of course, this is also the question: What's the classic pussy? – The classical pussy is de facto nothing other than the “tax fraud” – under the quotation marks – of the “little man”, because, unlike capable people, of course, a person with medium or low income cannot afford tax fraud in a large style, or such a person will not be able to afford it at all. This craftsman bonus – and that is, I think, an essential point – is promoted exclusively by the craftsman, speaking of the work performance and working time, and not the actual performance. That's already an essential point, because it's already something else if I'm going to support the window that's built in, than if I'm promoting the performance of the one or the one who's installing the window. It can be assumed that this will also result in additional revenue from taxes or SV contributions and from VAT and will thereby also flow back some of these subsidies. Moreover, and this is not an essential point in times like this, it will also be possible to create additional jobs – which I do not want to quantify at present, but it will come to job creation. I believe that this measure will also strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and also the economy, particularly in the regional sector, and in particular in these enterprises, growth in turnover can also be expected. Of course, we are also aware that there will also be side effects. The resolution centre to be defined is still open. In this sense, we expect this field experiment to have at least positive effects on the working and economic world. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Better a craftsman bonus than a pepper bonus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25110	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 45 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their assent at third reading, to give a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on fiscal deductibility of services close to the budget. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request does not cover the majority. He's rejected it. [[22:45:47]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 75/A by Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, on Prime Minister's loan in accordance with Article 142(l) of the Treaty. 2 lit. b B-VG against the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Maria Fekter (46 d. b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25180	We arrive at the 23rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25211	Madam President. On the general occasion of this item on the agenda, I already have the evening edition of a daily newspaper in my hand, which includes: “The hypo-Alpe-Adria was on Wednesday several times an emotional topic” – that’s true – “in the National Council, the last time too late at night.” – That’s true, too. – ‘The last item on the agenda was a request from the Greens for ministerial support against former Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. He Found No Majority ” We really don't need to discuss that anymore. It's done anyway, isn't it? [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Sit down! Please take a seat!]] But you should go into the content a little bit now. After all, it is quite interesting and has been kept silent in recent years that the former Minister Ditz, who, I believe, has been expelled from the ÖVP as the hypo-supervisory council president, has announced a financial need of 2.5 billion for 2013 but has not been taken into account at that time. He was then eliminated in the dispute – officially not in the dispute – and from his point of view it would certainly have been cheaper if one had already handled the hypo at that time. But one was afraid of the choice – that is understandable – which finally went at the expense of the taxpayer. Even if we are superfluous on this issue, I cannot leave you out of the responsibilities: We need an investigation committee! It's already crushing the front. It's in the same daily: ‘Investment: () Vorarlberger ÖVP makes press at home and in Vienna; Front of rejection in the Hohe Haus crumbles. () Red-Black: More and more for U-committee’. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There's nothing to add to that. Please agree to the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25253	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25275	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann, in his request, essentially supported the fact that he accused Mrs Fekter of not taking into account figures published in the media on the capital needs of Hypo Alpe-Adria, figures mentioned there, in budget creation. But I tell you that a serious budget is only possible if there is a sufficiently sound information. With regard to sufficiently well-founded knowledge of the need for capital at Hypo Alpe-Adria in April 2013, I can tell you the following: Since the opening of a state aid procedure by the European Commission and especially since the acquisition by the Republic, numerous restructuring plans and restructuring plans have been drawn up by the Executive Board of the Bank and submitted to the European Commission. These plans were revised several times between 2010 and 2012, not least because of the fact that management and information deficits have not emerged from the past until this time. Based on a package solution with the European Commission at the end of April 2013, the Executive Board was presented for the first time in May 2013 with a restructuring plan that adequately quantified the scope of future losses and recapitalisation requirements by the Federal Government. A conclusion of this aid procedure with a positive approval decision by the European Commission was reached in September 2013. It was only at that time that it was possible to estimate and approach the resulting capital needs in concrete assessments. As far as the accusation of a lack of budgetary consideration for the Federal Financial Framework Act is concerned, I can tell you that the restructuring plans submitted to the Federal Ministry of Finance by that date did not reveal any future recapitalisation requirements and that there was not a sufficiently well-founded need for support from the Board of Directors, so there was no budgetary provision for the years 2014 to 2017. I should also like to point out that necessary capital measures in favour of the Hypo Alpe-Adria were also covered by sufficiently available UG 46 budget reserves. Mrs Finanzminister Fekter has fully fulfilled her responsibility, there is no legal infringement. The Greens' accusation must be rejected, and there is no material basis for a ministerial settlement.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25314	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25335	Madam President. Yes, Mr Eßl, if we do not create a budget until we know how high the tax revenue is, then we always and in principle create budgets in retrospect – but then we do not need a budget either. [[Abg. Rädler: Professor Rossmann!]] So if you transfer this to the hypo and to budget creations at all, then the figures that are set there can always only be forecasts and estimates, and therefore may never be in line with reality. [[Call to the ÖVP: What do you criticize?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] That was the preliminary remark. Why did I bring this ministerial contribution against the Minister of Finance out of service? - Because I'm accusing her of a breach of constitution. [[Abg. Amon: Unheard! It's unheard of!]] – No, that’s not unheard of; I’ll show you this. Look at this little book! This is not the rules of procedure of this House, that is the Federal Budget Act. [[The speaker shows the above-mentioned work.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is the Bible for every finance minister, for every finance minister, and he or she has to stick to it. Let's start, let's look inside! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] There is a constitutional provision, which has been adopted by all the political groups in the House by the new budgetary law, which states that the budget and the federal financial framework must be as faithful as possible to the budgetary situation. [[Abg. Schönegger: Sorry, how long does that take?]] [[Abg. Fekter: No conjectures and no precepts!]] – This is a constitutional provision. What does “as faithful as possible ” mean? – Let’s see what the legislator had in mind when he passed this law! [[Call to the ÖVP: Oberlehrer!]] This is the comment of your former Deputy Head of Section, Dr. Claus Lödl, and he refers to the explanatory remarks of the Government template, referring to the principle of the most faithful presentation of the federal financial situation: [[Abg. Wöger: Lecture!]] “This principle concerns the requirements for the nature of the budget, settlement and reporting system in the broadest sense” – that is, the Federal Financial Framework Act that I am still going to talk to. “It also includes”, Mrs Finanzminister, an old principle, “the budgetary truth according to which budget resources can be estimated as accurately as possible.” So, and what do you have now in the federal financial framework, which you gave us last year, on 16 May. In April, in which UG 46 presented for the sub-stated ÖVAG and for the national banks? – An expenditure or disbursement limit, as that is, in the order of € 133 million for the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. [[Abg. Wöger: Who is he talking to?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Professor!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity! Incredible!]] Recently we had to note that 1.43 billion € There will be financial requirements for the mortgage, partly to make value adjustments for the Southern European network, and, on the other hand, to bridge up to the establishment of the decommissioning society. [[Call the ÖVP: Eastern Europe!]] Whether this will be the only financial resources in 2014 cannot be said. But now, if we take the Task Force's report, then it will be – including this €143 billion – €4 billion for 2014. [[Abg. Fekter: We only know that now!]] – This, Mrs Finanzminister, is contained in this report, please read it! So it's not € 133 million, but € 4 billion for 2014. [[Abg. Fekter: From the reserves!]] – The reserves are not at all interested in this context, because the reserves are a fiction that must be financed because they are not barred in the cash register; you have to finance them as well. Don't tell me what you're doing. Your head of section, who has now arrived, Dr. Steger, has always told you! If you had kept to Dr. Claus Lödl, you would have been better advised! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you were convinced that the payment limit of € 133 million is to be met, you would have, as provided for in the Basic Budget Act, in § 14 of the Federal Budget Act, set out the measures necessary to comply with these ceilings, namely the correction and control measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] When we look into the strategy report accompanying this federal financial framework, we read: We will develop "strategies for restructuring and/or restructuring. for the sale of the shares of the banking sector’. Yes, Mrs Finanzminister, you obviously did not even have a strategy at that time, which you should even start with this bank! [[Abg. Fekter: Bavaria! The Bavaria!]] As the owner, you, Mrs. Finanzminister, deliberately told the taxpayers the untruth in the run-up to the National Council election with the presentation of this report. [[Abg. Wöginger: Now give it a rest!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – That’s so, because at the time, there have already been a number of clues that this bank would need a lot more money – and I’m going to read a few examples to you now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Well, just take your time, later hour! ==References== In October 2011, the Vice-Chairman of FIMBAG, Dr. Androsch, warns that the Hypo Group would cost the taxpayer €4 billion. [[Abg. Wöger: Who are you talking to?]] In March 2012, the daily “Der Standard” from an internal paper of the Austrian National Bank reports that the cost of the mortgage would amount to € 5 to 10 billion. [[Abg. Fekter: What do we have?]] – Not: What should we have written in? – You should have written an estimate, in accordance with the Bank’s representatives, the Bank’s organs, which have told you what they want. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] You should have entered an amount and not a dream number that can never be kept in life! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Give him oxygen!]] Further: In July 2012, “FORMAT” also reported a hypo-internal paper, of €5 billion. In December 2012, capital increases of €1.5 billion had to be made. Finally, at the time when you presented us with this federal financial framework, negotiations with the European Commission were under way. [[Abg. Wheeler: Should you be in the green club!]] [[Abg. Fekter: But not finished yet!]] If, by the way, the European Commission had not, Mrs Finanzminister a. D., then we would not have reached a solution to the hypo until today, because the European Commission has in fact produced only the pressure, that it has come to a solution at all and that it has come to a decision, then on 3 March. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Finally, the magazine “profile” was published on 27 May. April – 11 days after you have introduced this federal financial framework of € 133 million – a dossier of the Austrian National Bank (Oesterreichische Nationalbank) that was created more internally. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In this file, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank assumed costs for the Hypo Alpe-Adria in the order of € 5 to 16 billion. – And you write in: € 133 million. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mrs Finanzminister, with this disregard for the constitutional rules and the regulations of the Federal Budget Act, you have made a significant contribution to the removal of the hypo problem, thereby causing massive damage to the taxpayer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[New call for tender Frameset]] [[Abg. Fekter: No! The taxpayer is protected!]] In addition, Mrs. Finanzminister a. D., that you did not have the courage to tell the taxpayers, the Sovereign, the electorate that the debt and the deficit would rise substantially, no matter what solution you would seek. [[Abg. Wheeler: Self-accompanied!]] They simply didn't have the courage to tell voters the truth. They fooled her. [[Abg. Rädler: Your people have already gone home!]] If you, Mrs Finanzminister and ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP, but believe that the Minister of Finance has not committed a breach of the constitution, you will, together with us, reject the negative committee report here and today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I ask you to: Have the courage to do so! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In any case, however, let us look again, Mrs Finanzminister, at this very question in the committee of inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Call the ÖVP:Lei-Lei!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25820	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it had really been so that it was hidden as it looked, then I could understand the displeasure at least in the approach. The pleasure in Parliament is that everything is written: It was discussed in detail both at first reading and at hearing as well as in the Committee on Budgets and in the plenary debate before the decision-making process. It is to be read everywhere that both the Minister and the Secretary of State have said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] It's not clear how much money the hypo will cost. [[Abg. Moser: They said a barrel without a floor!]] We have set aside € 133 million for the costs we know where this is about consulting costs and so on, but it will be significantly more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] There is currently a debate or discussion with the European Commission on the resolution plan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] For example, I can quote the following message: "Separation pointed to the undetermined outcome of the European Commission's negotiations and stressed that the risk by the banks is currently not accurate in terms of numbers. In the budget, however, a reserve of 4 billion was made. € provided.’ So the sum you have mentioned here as possible scale, exactly this sum has been mentioned a year ago by the government in the Budget Committee, in Parliament again and again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] I could now quote at least as much as government members have repeatedly brought this number before the election in the weekly period, in view of the late hour, I am saving it and making use of it in this quote. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25900	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e25943	I've got another 9 minutes – you're all happy already, I assume very strongly. [[Cheerfulness with greens and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Podgorschek.]] So I'm gonna take a short break. We've all experienced it, you're not just once, you've been sitting up here x-time, and we've always asked the same question: What will the hypo cost us? [[Abg. Fekter: Do you know?]] You have said again and again, you don't know, you can't judge it, and then you've just hired this € 133 million, even though we've already spent €300 million on consulting activities alone, and your Federal Chancellor knew at the time – and now up land, boasting that he already knew it – that it will be €7 to €10 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] [[Call the SPÖ:4 to 7!]] He always claims that he knew that at the time, but of course you as the Minister of Finance had no idea. Of course, they didn't know that this would cost so much money, and they hired the 133 million €. You've only done this because you didn't want to be guilty of a mistake that the voters of course would have put you around because your predecessor had taken this bank back into the state's property – without need. [[Abg. Wöginger: There we still believed!]] You knew, of course, that the citizen is going to put this on you. That's why you didn't want to tell the truth to the citizen. That's the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] You have not even been sitting here and have refused the information. They have denied all of us transparency and have ultimately done what is now causing such a drastic means as a ministerial anchorage to be on the table. I am also not a great friend of such drastic means, but apparently you do not allow any possibility if you act like that. You can't tell me that as a finance minister, you didn't know what was going to happen to us. And if you didn't know for years, the question is whether you were a good finance minister. [[Na-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: That's unheard of!]] We will explain all of this in a committee of inquiry, and I can promise you today that there will be one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] There will be an investigation committee and then we will clarify your responsibility, the responsibility of Mr Pröll and all the others who have played there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] I can promise you this will come because you won't stand the pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e26082	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e26134	Mr President. The President-in-Office of the Council gave me today a call for an order for the expression ‘ideiotically’. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for any proof of truth, so I will try to avoid that now – if the impression arises; I hope that is not worthy of regulation. Mr Krainer, as I believe, clearly stated that the parliamentary procedure was carried by very open communication at the time. He quoted the then State Secretary as an arbitrator, who clearly pointed out that €4 billion of deposits were intended, plus €133 million for the costs. [[Abg. Rossmann: no budgeting! Dear colleague Matznetter, look in!]] Dear colleague Rossmann! Before hacking into the keyboard here, you should look at the article 142 B-VG at least once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] It says there must be a guilty breach of law. What is it supposed to be in the prognosis? [[Abg. Rossmann: Didn't you listen to me?]] Niels Bohr, after all Nobel Prizewinners, pointed out at a seminar that forecasts are difficult, especially when they concern the future. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You want in your application a criminality for a prognosis which is a proposal to the Sovereign who decides the budget. On the one hand, Mr Rossmann, do you think all of us can say that he is all of us. - No, I can't. [[To President Head.]] [[President head shakes the head.]] Mr President, I avoid it. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is an expropriation of this House, because to believe that everything that Mrs Minister writes in there – completely wreaks what is happening here – will then become an act, that is a nonsense special, dear colleague Rossmann! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] There can be no penalty for a prognosis, there can be no guilt. That's propaganda for this conflict with Hypo. Quite honestly, it was easy for no one to do it! You deserve your own opposition work, because you discussed the question of hypocrisy right here at that time. With your comments today, you explain to yourselves as if you had slept in the bank, in the pendulum watch. You have been critical of this, so why do you show yourselves to be bad testimonies? There was a proposal from the Minister. The majority is convinced that the objections have been raised, and the 4 billion € decrease for the moment should hopefully go well – hopefully it won't be anymore. Don't make any more accusations for prognosis! We don't even get young people for meteorologists and for business researchers. What are we supposed to do, Mr Rossmann? I wish you a good night.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e26229	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. As I see it, the rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 46 of the supplements. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:11:22]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-03-26-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00017_d8e26270	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 293/A to 310/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Question 1120/J to 1155/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 27. March 2014, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. I wish you a good night! This meeting is closed.
