ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2813	I'll open the 11th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure have been called up, and welcome all of you very, very cordially, ladies and gentlemen. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 9. The 10th meeting and the 10th official protocol. Meeting of 29. In January 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Mrs Mag. Mag. has been reported to have been prevented. Mr Prammer and Mr Hakel, Mr Heinzl, Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger, Mag. Schrangl, Mag. Musiol, Mag. Schwennner, ing. Dietrich, Hagen and Gift. [[08:34:27]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2847	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Frank Stronach has renounced his mandate and that Mr Rouven Ertlschweiger has been appointed to the National Council in his place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mr Buchmayr, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2877	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2898	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2914	I warmly welcome the honourable Member in our midst and wish him all the best for his task! [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2938	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth or Science and Research Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner represented. The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor each announced their intention to make a statement on "Status quo: Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG’. There is a request by five Members to refer to these statements in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. [[08:36:24]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e2991	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3250	I also say that the Second Report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[08:36:46]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3271	Deputies Mag. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 93 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the written question No 639/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by the honourable Member. Kogler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on the protection of taxpayers from the total failure of the Federal Government. Treatment of the urgent request will take place at least three hours after its submission, i.e. at 11.30 a.m. [[08:37:25]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3295	Deputies Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a Committee of Inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria to obtain the full title Please use the written request distributed. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3331	In accordance with § 57 para. 3 C. 2 the Rules of Procedure reached agreement on the design and duration of the debate on the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-President: Mr. Federal Chancellor 15 minutes, Mr. Vice-Chancellor also 15 minutes, then a round of speakers with 10 minutes each, and for the remaining two rounds of speakers, each group is available for a total of 13 minutes. The line of speakers is as follows: FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, Team Stronach and NEOS. Any actual corrections will be called after the end of the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This has been adopted unanimously. [[08:39:11]] Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Status quo: Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG’
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3377	We now come to the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. Following these declarations, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the present request. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3404	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If we have to report in our report on the status quo, as you said, Mr President, that we are currently examining a model that plays a major role as an institution solution in the public debate, then it is to be said that it is a collecting society without a bank license. This is different from the current way of dealing with the inheritance for this Federal Government, for the country of Austria, which we truly did not want, and from the previous settlement of the Hypo Alpe-Adria by taking stock of a model that Germany has applied in the financial market crisis in view of the difficulties in seeking a solution to the German banks, which, without the necessary own resources, because no more bank license, allows for a longer period of time. This is actually a sale, a management which results with the least losses, but also losses. We want to tell you about this model because we have to talk here in this House about the current state of play. But I'm coming – and that's gonna be They understand well – of course, not without mentioning the causer and saying how we came to this unimaginable big problem, which is disturbing and annoying to all of us, the Austrians, including this Federal Government. I would like to briefly quote the Court of Auditors report, which speaks a clear language here at the end of January 2014: ‘The RH’ (Rechnungshof) ‘ stated that a claim by the State of Carinthia under the title of the default guarantee for the liabilities of the HBint and HBA by the end of 2009 would have far exceeded the economic sustainability of the country of Carinthia’. And here we come to the real point, the contaminant. It is not only a bank with many still to be clarified transactions, but it has also been taken over by the leadership of the FPÖ in the country of Carinthia, which the Court of Auditors clearly states that it “has far exceeded the economic sustainability of the country of Carinthia”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: For many years now, and nobody has done anything!]] ‘Despite the Court of Auditors’ statement already made in 2003, the Court of Auditors rightly notes that ‘the country of Carinthia did not fully exercise its statutory control possibilities, in particular as regards the risk content of the liabilities taken over.’ To this stand a number of full-fledged sayings of FPÖ representatives, such as Mr Uwe Scheuch, who still had the naughtiness, to say that Haider has made the hypo the most successful regional bank in Europe and “depoliticized”. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Or Kurt Scheuch: “We’re dealing here with a healthy bank.” [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You see, ladies and gentlemen, what can be said, but not the truth. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But why does the central bank president say the same thing?]] Hypo Alpe-Adria is an example of the importance of a comprehensive regulation of financial markets, banking union and the implementation of an effective mechanism for the orderly settlement of banks. In my further remarks, I would also like to ask: How can such a settlement take place? However, I would like to point out, because it is also important to me personally, that I also said in the election campaign, so at a time that after a election is always under special control, I estimate that the costs will be between €4 billion and €7 billion. I know that this led to the criticism of some who said that a German chancellor had no estimates at all in the course of a ongoing settlement. I would just like to say that I am convinced that the introduction of the bank levy and its continuation, but also the other contributions from this sector, is justified because the costs incurred by the damage caused by the irrational actions in the area of Hypo Alpes and this large takeover of a liability which the country of Carinthia cannot afford itself, cannot be borne by the taxpayer alone, but by the banking sector, which has a significant contribution to make to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The banking sector, like all of us in this country, must be interested in the existence of stable conditions, because financial stability benefits everyone in that country. The image of Austria and its stable credit quality benefit the entrepreneurs as well as, of course, the take-up of loans by the federal government and the admission of funds by the countries. So there is no one who does not have to work on a solution with all the strength and must also be interested in the fact that it is openly and honestly said that it is losses which we as the Republic of Austria did not wish for, but which we took over as a result of irresponsible activity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This irrational action by individual actors and groups shows how important it is for us to comply with the rules that we have already adopted in the future and to create further rules, including at European level. Again and again, in the form of criticism, the fact that European financial market surveillance does not make it easy for our institutions and other actors to act. – Yes, it is true that control mechanisms, which require high own resources, can be unpleasant in many areas for the individual affected, especially if it deals with everything honestly, correctly and successfully. But the example of Hypo Alpe-Adria shows that there is a great need for follow-up to additional rules, to which I also call myself. I am convinced that this should be extended in Austria and also at European level. A functioning supervision! It is difficult enough to understand in detail individual transactions of banks taking place internationally. That sounds easier in a debate than it really is. But checking such links, illuminating them, appreciating their risk content requires a European financial market surveillance system, which we thus have to create together, and we Austrians also have an active role to play. It was in the 1930s, namely 1931, because a lot is currently being discussed about commemorative and historical events when the collapse of the credit institution triggered an economic fire. In 2009, this consensus did not fail to act where it was necessary, on the one hand, to act in the form of nationalization, on the other hand at European level, with protection mechanisms that prevented a collapse. Not to repeat the errors of the 1930s in the fight against the financial crisis, but also in the fight against the economic crisis caused by the financial crisis. I know, whenever something has been achieved, when a fire is removed, you don't know what could have happened. But I am convinced that both the decision on nationalization and the decision on various protective shields and the precautions we have taken were correct and necessary for the Austrian banks and are being continued. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Therefore, in the hypo, problems that have been caused before 2009 have to be solved since 2009. From 2002 to 2008, the balance sheet total increased significantly from less than €10 billion to over €40 billion, of which €31 billion was still in Austrian possession, and thus quadrupled, in a risky and responsible expansion course with support from the irresponsible level of the national guarantee already mentioned by me. [[The Greens keep tables in height with various inscriptions regarding the cost of the hypo, such as “Hypo costs: 5 500 euros for each family in Austria.”]] Even in the case of emergency nationalisation, it was clear that high costs will be incurred for the Republic. However, it was only after the emergency stateization that it gradually became apparent that the problems were much larger than they were originally adopted. At the same time, the economic crisis in South-East Europe also increased. The fact that certain expectations have been put into the development of South-East Europe, by many people acting at the time, was so in other countries too. That was the case with the BayernLB, which was also true of those responsible in the hypo we have put. But it was also so with those in charge of other economic enterprises that they had higher expectations in the economic development of South-East Europe than it did then. Due to the economic crisis, there was a much worse development in South-East Europe. Therefore, expectations have not been met, and they have been devalued. This is not just a hypo problem, no, it is also a problem of many businesses, many banks that have devalued internationally or which have not met the expectations and goals they have set themselves. I would also like to stress this in order to explain here the complexity and thus the different causes of the hypo development. You know the difficult task of rapidly reducing the bank and ultimately selling all the assets. However, the balance sheet total has decreased from € 41 billion to around € 27 billion. This has not happened without the contributions we have made as a covenant, but also with contributions that could be made actively in the resolution in recent years through a sale – such as the hypo Carinthia. I am therefore saying this because the question of whether the Carinthian Hypo was sold was successfully sold, in the sense of a closed sale... [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Under the book value!]] Yes, under the book value, but it was sold, and thus a reduction in the balance sheet amount and also... [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Do you understand? What does book value mean? At the time when it's about, and not the book value... [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Rossmann and ongoing calls to the FPÖ.]] I can explain it to you precisely so that you also know, because someone who assumes such liability as you really does not know what it is about! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But that between what is expected of a bank and what the Carinthians have expected from the Hypo Carinthia, and what we find at present in actual values, there has actually been a significant difference. This could also be noted by the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The reduction must continue and be accelerated, because with the reduction, the risk for us and hence for all taxpayers decreases. It takes time for the last loan to be depleted, and it is necessary to work through these solutions consistently. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Enlightenment needs to be where the money came from!]] The question of the participation of banks has also been examined in detail by us. When I say “of us”, I mean the task force we are using, as well as the Ministry of Finance, its experts and many more experts who have carefully reviewed how we achieve the best possible solution for Austria in this process. Our task is to keep costs for Austrian taxpayers as low as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber holds the label “Hypo costs: 5 500 euros for every family in Austria” with the logo of the Greens.]] The task of the expert group is to determine the structure in which the resolution can best be implemented. We will continue with the extension of the bank levy to ensure that not only the €4 billion that came in during the last legislative period, from various areas of the banks, whether through the operation of interest, whether through the participation capital, through liability fees or through the bank levy, are available, but also that the decisions we have taken for the continuation of the bank's levy will also generate about €7 billion in the next ten years, so that we will have a total of €11 billion in a manageable period from this sector. We have also provided in the Federal Financial Framework for a contribution to losses which we consider possible at this time. You know that the European Commission, which has also taken a very close look at this, is also talking about losses such as the scale we have foreseen. However, I would like to come to those calls where you are relatively quick with the term “concurrency”. I would like to make it clear that it is important to weigh some risks, and not just to keep the discussion a little in swing, to call some key word. 12,5 billion € in liabilities of the country of Carinthia are still available at the hour. Much has happened so far, but 12,5 billion euros of liability still exist at the hour. There is still a high volume of savings in south-eastern European subsidiaries. Still there is a risk of infection of other banks. The Republic of Austria also holds shares in other banks. There is still a risk that investors could lose confidence in Austrian institutes. That is why it is our task to achieve the opposite: to strengthen confidence and to carry out a resolution that proves that we have the right consequences and do not forget who the causers were. Therefore, we do not need a decision based on calls that were only meant to be polemic in order to change political change. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We need an orderly procedure, with the knowledge of the experts working there, together with – and I hope so – a constructive opposition in this House. We do not even need a decision based on recommendations from the FPÖ, which has already proved sufficiently that it is unable to make good decisions and act responsibly. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] I would therefore ask you to make it quite clear: Who is the cause of the problem and what are the right consequences that we have to draw in the form of regulations to tell the Austrians that we will do this best possible? [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's you! They're the contaminants!]] One thing is certain: We have to draw the right conclusions! And that means a number of rules and rules so that the case of the hypo cannot be repeated!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3592	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. The next item is the speech by Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e3619	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! On the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria, I understand every citizen in Austria that as taxpayers, they do not understand that they have to pay for the mistakes of the former Carinthian state government and bank management today. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And that's how I do, of course: For me, it is not at all understandable how such far-reaching misconceptions can have happened in Carinthia! The problem has been created by crazy liability that Carinthian politics had taken up at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Take the consequences from your people who have the responsibility for it!]] When selling the hypo, ladies and gentlemen, the then head of state Jörg Haider has cheered over a million business for Carinthia. Today, it shows: This wasn't a million business for Carinthia, but it's a billion-dollar loss for the Republic. [[Abg. Kickl: Wouldn't you have bought it back!]] The country of Carinthia has a responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and it will not be able to completely clean up – even if this is perhaps not clearly regulated by law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] From my point of view, at least it would be a good thing for Carinthia to be involved in the costs, ladies and gentlemen. - I can hold it today. As Minister of Finance, I want to and must now clear out what was done by the Carinthian policy at the time. I didn't cause the problem, I took over. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But my goal is to reach the best solution for taxpayers and location, and it is clear that the Hypo Alpe-Adria is undoubtedly the greatest challenge we face and we must vote on. But with the complaint alone nothing gets better, even with the criminal and political processing of the past alone it is not done, but it must now be decided. Of course, there are a lot of calls. They say, insolvency, bankruptcy, and best of all, yesterday. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I remind them: That's not a show stage question! The insolvency debate should not only be conducted by the self-proclaimed experts. I don't rule out an option, but I warn you about every quick shot. [[Call at the FPÖ: For many years now it has to be decided!]] Insolvency is associated with a lot of dangers. Therefore, these should be analysed in depth and in depth. The others are for the solution according to the German model: an institution that takes over all liabilities and processes them over many years. I'm just telling them what that means: Just swallow everything as a Republic and strangle for many more years! [[Abg. May. Kogler: What have you been studying for the last four years?]] And the third ones are even the best: On the weekend, I read that FPÖ and Mr Strache have now found the solution to the problem of bringing the previous Finance Ministers to the criminal courts. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the cheapest distraction maneuver the FPÖ wants to start now! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, you should apologise to the population for this problem because you and your environment have caused it, ladies and gentlemen! That's what we have to point out today! [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But now it has to be decided how to continue to keep the damage as low as possible. That is why we have gathered this group of experts in the Task Force. Yes, with whom should a head of government be surrounded, if not with those responsible for the financial market and for this location in Austria also in the financial sector: with the head of the National Bank, with the head of financial market supervision, with the institutions of the Bank, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's great!]] Yes, of course. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What have they been doing in charge for ten years?]] I also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, also those of the Greens: These people have also deserved respect for their work – and not only evaporation and hems, as you do! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who is responsible for the control procedure?]] I would like to keep the costs as low as possible, and the objective remains: In 2016, there must be a structural zero deficit. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with FPÖ and greens.]] To achieve this, I want to have hand-resistant numbers on the table. The Task Force and Statistics Austria are currently working on this. Now you can say: No matter what decision comes, it obviously costs the taxpayer something. However, no final decision has yet been taken on the nature of the solution to the problem. And I also take the right to make this final decision, which the Federal Chancellor and I ultimately have to answer, only after a precise and accurate review of all variants and forecast figures. [[Abg. Kickl: You've done this for four years now!]] It doesn't like the media that want headlines. This may also be annoyed by citizens who can hardly bear this issue anymore. But this is not a quick goal, ladies and gentlemen, but here it is about Austria finally winning the game. That is why it is in this context. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, profits mean that taxpayers can get out of this disaster as cheaply as possible. I want the subject of hypo to be done by summer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What does that mean?]] I need a broad involvement of all parties. I therefore also spoke to the financial speakers of all the opposition parties last week, informing them of the steps. I would like to have a national etiquette, because this hypo solution meets all of us, and ultimately it must also be decided in Parliament. The objective must be and remain as broad as possible. [[Abg. Kickl: In a U committee you can have a national shoulder closure!]] The solution must be to keep the impact on the public budget as low as possible and to ensure a transparent, clean, predictable handling of Hypo Alpe-Adria. For this I have developed a precise plan, which is dealt with gradually. ==References== January 2014, i.e. almost a month ago, the Federal Government was sent to the final report of the Task Force. It has proposed four models, each taking into account the following aspects: protecting Austria's financial centre, maintaining a functioning capital market and achieving the best possible solution for Austrian taxpayers. Immediately after receipt of the paper, we entered into intensive negotiations with the banks because the first proposed model of the Taskforce was a banking bee-keeping model. As you know, this solution has failed. The reasons for this have also been discussed, I do not want to repeat it in every way. [[Abg. May. Kogler: She wouldn't have been cheaper anyway! Do you think they would have done this for nothing?]] Thus, the government models remain as an alternative to insolvency – with all the consequences for taxpayers, ultimately for all in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who now claims he can say what this resolution costs is a charlatan. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] Every day I hear some horror numbers: 19 billion, 15 billion, 13 billion. Whoever spreads these numbers must not forget: The 19 billion are not costs, but the possible volume of a Bad Bank. Of course, this is also the case with values and guarantees. And if you say everything is worth nothing, you can't say it well – even with the state of Austria. The current situation is as follows: In recent years, we have used 3.6 billion for loss cover for raising equity. In addition, another €1.2 billion of the Federal Government for Guarantees is available. So that's €4.8 billion – unimaginable amounts that Austria would surely need for more important things. [[Abg. Kickl: The Bavaria don't have this problem!]] I know what I'm talking about, it won't stay with those amounts. But what comes out at the end of the line depends very much on the decisions we have to take in the next few weeks and months. Even though some are now dissatisfied that I am not able to present them with a final settlement here and today, we must not stop examining all remaining possibilities for feasibility, professional procedures and, above all, cost minimisation. That's why I don't exclude any variation. Any reduction in the damage is a profit. But it will cost taxpayers anyway – and we can thank Haider & Co for that today. [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible!]] Yes, you're right: That's really incredible! What was done at the time is incredible, ladies and gentlemen. Once a real word from the first series of FPÖ. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as with Members of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kickl: How one-dimensional you are knitted! You're the total misalignment up there!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is how it is going: I expect the next Task Force report within the next few weeks. Taking into account the best expertise, we will make the final decision on the Bank's future by the end of March 2014. [[Abg. Kickl: It's all coal-rab black there...!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] We will propose a model that offers the best perspective – in turn in all matters and without taboos! At the end of March, we will be entering the implementation phase, with all the relevant decisions to be taken by Parliament. [[Abg. Kickl: This gives the word “institution ” a completely different meaning!]] I have started a conversation with all the political groups of the National Council, including those of the opposition parties, and I would like to make an offer to all of you to participate in the decision-making process. But, ladies and gentlemen – and I can say this at this point – when the decision is to be made, I also expect everyone, including the opposition, to make less polemizing, but rather to make the right decision with Austria in charge. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hello!]] Then I will also take you into the duty – to clarify this once! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe we'll make a U-committee! That's where we can handle everything in detail!]] Intensive discussions, including with the financial speakers, will continue, because only if we deal with this national challenge in the right way can we implement the right decisions. All parties, all relevant institutions and the Federal Government must together get the best out for our country. Every billion we can avoid, we need for the future. I take the right to use this estimated time for this right decision. This is a very short schedule and a tight frame anyway. But I'm not going to blame anyone for slowing or negligent decisions – neither by the political opponent nor by the media. [[Abg. Kickl: That's such a one-dimensional thing, that's incredible!]] These decisions are simply about dealing with a cool head, with expertise, with reliability and with responsibility. It's not a scene for fights, for emotions, it's not a theme for hysteria in the media world. This disaster has to be solved, ladies and gentlemen – so that we can make the most of it together in this procedural situation. This is also my appeal to you: I ask you not to let yourself be torn here, just the opposition against the government, just to play one against the other, but that we make the most of this situation together! [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: But you have to tie us in, please. I can't do that!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: So far, only two have been torn: You and the chancellor!]] This is my open invitation to all of you that we will together discuss in detail what we can do about it. That is what I wish, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4060	Before we go into the debate, allow me to make a preliminary remark, ladies and gentlemen. As a result, we are discussing a very delicate matter, with unfortunately fatal effects and also fiercely debated solutions. I expect a strong and controversial debate. That is quite right in the sense of a living parliamentaryism. However, I now appeal to you, before entering the debate, not to exceed the limits of respect for the dissident and also the dignity of the House, to all of you – to the speakers, but also to the Members in the sittings – in your choice of words. We are all in common for the Consider this House responsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Vilimsky: (to the government bank point out) You should have told them!]] We are now going into the debate. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4097	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is very interesting how to reduce everything left behind by the government to one area by the wayside of the Republic, and deliberately hide further areas of responsibility from the years 2007, 2008, 2009 to the present day. I'll talk about it because it's interesting. If then Mr Vice-Chancellor speaks of the fact that there has been no political responsibility of ÖVP politicians, I ask myself: Who is the only criminally condemned politician in connection with the hypo? – Your former ÖVP member Martinz as Supervisory Board! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Loacker.]] Explain this to me, Mr. Vice Chancellor Spindelegger! The prosecutor's office and all investigation agencies – from Kripo, financial police, financial market supervision, financial attorneys, up to CSI Hypo et cetera – have not brought any free politicians to court or could not do so. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] They are looking forward to a deceased country captain today, who can no longer defend himself; no question, but I come to speak on it. Who has started the expansion policy of the hypo, if not the head of the ÖVP Zernatto 1992 and 1993? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who then decided on the liability in the country of Carinthia, when, of course, a majority was needed in the country day? We can discuss this! Yes, it was a liability that was jointly decided on by the ÖVP and the SPÖ. [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] And today you're pretending there was an absolute majority of FPÖ in Carinthia. By the way, this is a practice that is being lived in all the federal states of Austria. [[Abg. Wöginger: But not to the extent!]] In Vienna today we have €9 billion of liabilities at Bank Austria, in Lower Austria we have liability at the Hypo and in other areas, in all the federal states we have this, up to Tyrol. If you're serious, I'll ask you: If you are against the liability agreed at the time – but you have voted in favour! – why did you then decide much higher and irresponsible liability to the European Stability Mechanism, against our votes if you are supposed to have become smarter? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Contraindications without end! That's what it's all about. I also wonder why the head of state Emperor is the last active politician who has said and voted with Hurra on these national liabilitys, while you today act as if you have no responsibility for them! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: You! You!]] I wonder how this is with Mrs Schaunig, who, of course, was with a funny Hurra at the time. - That's just the Grotesque. [[Abg. Obernosterer: The Dörfler!]] Now we come to the liabilities. These are outlaws. These liabilities of the country of Carinthia were never for loans, would never be hit for loans. No, they were outlaws exclusively for bonds and not for insolvency. They pretend to be the liability decision by which the country of Carinthia would be held in everything and everyone. – No, that’s not the case! Unreasonably and dishonestly argue! The main responsibility in Bavaria lies at the latest from the sale of the mortgage bank to the BayernLB. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As majority owners, the Bayern have only lived as an expansion policy, with a capital that you have invested in the bank, which has risen from the last responsible financial statements of Kulterers in 2005 from 18 billion to over 40 billion – under the responsibility of Bayern! Even the Bavarian Finance Minister Fahrenshon said at the time: Yes, we would never have sent the hypo into insolvency, on the contrary! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: The Federal Chancellor... does not know what that means!]] . We all know today that from the time the acquisition was taken, and of course after further expansion, the main responsible Bayern could not have afforded to send a hypo to insolvency. The creditor chain was clearly re-ordered, namely: Bayerische Landesbank, Land Bayern-Glaubiger and then first Carinthia, with an outlay liability. Believe me, Bavaria could never have afforded to send a bank like the hypo into insolvency! This would have been unthinkable, according to Bavarian Finance Minister Fahrenschon. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Bavaria knew that this was, of course, unpleasant for them. So what did they do? – You have tried to negotiate with Austria. After all, secret negotiations started in 2009, already in September. There were discussions with Josef Pröll, and the Bavaria believed that they could no longer and no less demand than a participation, a cooperation of the Austrians. In the end, however, it turns out that the Austrians propose a decrease of the bank to Bavaria, with which not only the Bayern did not count, but in the end they came to laugh, whether so much incompetence and stupidity. In the end, a financial crime has been committed to the Austrians by nationalization – and we need to discuss it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this official liability, with this process, with the nationalization of a Bavarian Landesbank back into Austrian property, the damage has begun! There has been no damage before that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is to explain to whom these handcuffs are due in the future, after a committee of inquiry, and in the end the public prosecutor will have to work. [[The speaker holds handcuffs in height]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A Finance Minister of the ÖVP, Josef Pröll, travels to Munich and conducts negotiations there – without lawyers! You have to imagine this: A finance minister drives to the Bavaria, negotiates without lawyers and returns with an alleged emergency state - without need, overnight, in a night and fog action! At once – where there was no damage to the Austrians! – the Austrians have to bear the complete damage and the Bavaria, which has caused an expansion development, are held as majority owners, with the 12 billion outstandings of the bonds causing 8 billion in the responsibility period of Bavaria. Yes, what kind of policy is that?- Oh, my God! Who represented who? Who represented Josef Pröll with incompetence? – And incompetence is still the most harmless of all, because I might also suspect that I would like to keep creditors outside like Raiffeisen or others who would have come to the train. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Loacker.]] We have to put it in the responsibilities chain, which started with nationalization. I wonder how you want to accuse the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider or the FPÖ, where Haider no longer lived in 2009 in the nationalization, in the course of which the damage was transformed to Austria, where from the time of your red and black responsibility complete inactivity was lived, where nothing was done from the nationalization until today. All experts You have in the Task Force today, up to Mr Liebscher – Supervisory Board of Hypo, at the Taskforce he is there – what have they done, I wonder! What are those absurd consulting contracts where one hears that they are supposed to have collected €300 to €480 million from 2009 to today? Who, then, has taken care of the bags at the expense of taxpayers – with an inactivity that has caused enormous damage to the Austrians? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of this has to be clarified and examined without any difficulty! I understand why you have a bad conscience and until today all the opposition applications have been rejected to an investigation committee. That is because the Committee of Inquiry has concluded that the truth is not true. It is under a duty of truth, and then at the latest the prosecutor's office would have to act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the background, and these responsibilities chains must be merciless to show and reveal. I have never heard of Josef Pröll's responsibility for nationalization and then of the Minister of Finance Fekter, who is sitting in these ranks today as Members. What has happened since 2009? – The central bank, the National Bank, declared at the time, 2009: not distressed, no more than €2 billion in damage. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A third of the damage...!]] – Now we are 19 to 20 billion €! Uniquely, your own environment analyses completely differently in 2009 than we are now experiencing reality. Of course, you have to think about variants, but first of all it is necessary to lay down the responsibility. Variants are all to be checked. As a patron of the Austrian taxpayers, I say: It has to be found the cheapest variant for taxpayers! This can probably also be an orderly insolvency, as it lived in Iceland, where the creditors are finally held responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us put the names of the creditors on the table! Which institutions, which creditors have come along with and cast off here and are now finally to make a fine business on the back of the taxpayers? - No, we won't watch it. Of course, all variants are to be checked. Of course you can also really discuss a bathroom bank variant, of course. But then I wonder why this Bad Bank did not come into effect in 2009, as the European Union has stated in terms of a resolution, but why, under crane bites, even the possibility of a stock exchange has been inspected, although it was clearly stated that a settlement must be carried out! These are absurdities! And these are your experts? These are the great rulers that advise you in this area? That's what I'm saying: Good night, Austria! In view of what has happened here in recent years, today many economists and university professors at the University of Economics are turning to the head and wonder why one does not really rely on experts or also advise international experts. – All of this has not happened! That's exactly where your responsibility lies, from which you can't get out of. [[Call the ÖVP: You already!]] That is exactly what it is all about to clarify without delay, and the consequences must also be drawn from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4307	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4330	Mr President. My predecessor has just referred to himself as the patron of taxpayers. This is not just a bad joke, but in reality it is the patron saint of those who have put it into us. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Yes, yes!]] The former head of state Dörfler continues to sit two rooms in the protection of immunity for the FPÖ in the Federal Council. So you may be the patron saint of the village, but not the patron of taxpayers! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Neos representatives.]] You can try the handcuffs at once in the club and do not need to wave around. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Did he make a forced nationalization, the dungeon?]] [[Abg. Kickl: There I find many candidates!]] When we discussed the hypo disaster in Parliament for the first time, a few days before the emergency stateization, you had no time at all to participate in the debate because you were negotiating with Dörfler and Scheuch, how you are reuniting. – That is the truth! You didn't get to the speaker's desk at all. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Kickl: You Kasperl!]] Whoever thought you finally had the will to get out of here to apologize for what you have done to this Republic, has been severely disappointed. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] It would have been time for you to take responsibility for what your party has done to this country with its policy, with its policy of liability and with its expansion policy. [[Abg. Slight:... and the European Stability Mechanism?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But no, you can't, but the head of state Kaiser, who had nothing to do with the critic of this system, has apologized on behalf of the Carinthians for what you did to the Republic. [[Abg. May. Darmann: He voted in favour! He was all over the place!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] There you can see the difference between politicians who have real and honest responsibility and you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Don't play the expert!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The word “institution” gets a completely new meaning in your speech!]] [[Federal Minister Bures: Which one?]] Yes, the word “anstalt ” gets a particularly new meaning in my speech. Now explain to me: What is the meaning of the word “institution ” in my speech? [[Abg. Kickl: I don't think you're quite right in your speech!]] So I'm not quite with senses! [[Federal Minister Bures:... a scandal!]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Because the Kärntner Landeshuptmann has agreed to the liability!]] Mr President, would you like to make a brief statement with Mr Kickl?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4594	Ladies and gentlemen! I have already appealed to you all in the first place, and I now see how urgently necessary it was, but apparently not yet with sufficient effect. I would ask you not to exceed certain limits of respect for the other in the face of all controversy in the views on this subject. [[Abg. New builder: This also applies to the speaker! For the speaker too!]] This applies to all. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4622	In this debate, which we held in 2009, where Mr Strache was not involved, because he was currently dealing with something else, it was clear to all of us that the hypo will cost us many billions. That was all clear. [[Abg. Stache: Sure I was there! What a nonsense you're talking about! He's really out of his mind! Say I wasn't there even though I was there! What are you doing?]] – You did not participate in the debate. [[Abg. Strache: Say I wasn't there! What are you talking about wrong things, that's just more absurd what you're doing for the best!]] In the Stenographical Protocol you can read that you have not been involved because you have just negotiated the merger with Scheuch and Dörfler. Why was it necessary at all to carry out this emergency nationalization? – Because FPÖ in Carinthia, at the head of the state captain, apparently did not fully understand the difference between bank and bankomat. This bank has been abused for all possible prestige projects of the head of state, all of which can be read and which have ended in the financial disaster. [[Abg. Kickl: That is why the SPÖ voted against and voted against! Because you understood! The whole SPÖ voted against because you understood!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Because you are so skilled!]] The second is that the expansion of the bank was carried out much too fast, far too unprofessional and far too risky. [[Abg. Kickl:... that the bank is sold too cheap, that was the SPÖ!]] This is simply the way you have done, because these irresponsibly high liabilities have been entered into in Carinthia under the leadership of the FPÖ. That's the one thing. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You're the tailor of the emperor's new clothes?]] – Didn't you hear the president? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Oh, but that's pain money, what you're there... so you listen!]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: That's where you want to follow all the speeches, but you don't stop that!]] You are supposed to be a bit moderate with your interlocutory calls, but you can continue to try to distract yourself from your political responsibility. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where we have to bear this responsibility and also have to hold our heads on to it. Above all, taxpayers must hold their heads for what you would have to do in and for yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After the emergency nationalization in December 2009, one of the first things was that the Federal Chancellor said quite rightly in January 2010, we need a bank levy, we need the involvement of banks in crisis costs and in financing bank rescues. There have also been many resistances from the FPÖ. We have justifiably introduced this bank tax in 2010 and have since increased and expanded it in several steps, because it is essential that not only taxpayers bear the costs, but also those who have benefited from saving the mortgage make their contribution. It is true that the banks are not directly involved in the solution, but they still pay for the mortgage. They have already paid €4 billion in the last legislative period – on bank charges, on liability fees and the like – and they will pay €7 billion in the next few years – the Chancellor has predicted this – because it is essential that the banks should pay for these costs at the end of the day rather than the taxpayer and the taxpayer. Furthermore, the bank was restructured. It was started with the sale of the daughters. It has been significantly reduced, and – very important! – a timetable and a framework for costs has been agreed with the European Union. By mid-2015, the daughters have to be sold permanently, and everything that is still there has to be destroyed. The framework of what it will cost about taxpayers has been estimated by the European Commission at around €4 billion in addition to the already paid. For us, the question is essential who pays. We want as little a burden as possible on taxpayers and taxpayers, which is why we want banks to pay. Of course, it is also necessary to see that those involved and those who were saved – not only the bank but also those who benefited from the rescue – make their contribution as far as possible. These are, of course, the former owners, first of all the Bavaria – there is still a dispute over more than €2 billion that we would like to see from them – of course, these are also the other mortgage banks, the creditors and the owners of the other mortgage banks, which of course can also make their contribution because they also benefit from the rescue. But one thing has to be clear: It is also, and above all, about looking at what this means for our rating, for the interest we have to pay for our debts, because we know that Austria has to borrow several billions each year on the financial market. And if, through insolvency, we may save the taxpayer 1 billion, 2 or 3 billion euros and, on the other hand, we have to expect 4, 8 or 12 billion more interest to be paid in the next few years, then this is not a special business, but those who say the insolvency is so easy, are highly speculative on the go. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: What? 4 billion more interest?]] You can see at the downgradation of Carinthia and also from the hypo, how sensitive the financial market reacts, as sensitive as the interest rates also react. We only need to remember how it was in 2009 when we paid around 1 percent higher interest rates than Germany. This would cost us in the future in about 2.7 billion a year if we had to pay 1 percent more. That means you have to see both sides and you must not look at them in isolation. That's great when creditors pay, but if we have to count on the double costs on the other hand, then we have to be clear that this is not just an advantage. That is why I would be very, very sensitive to this discussion. We see what this is leading to. But finally, again, and that is crucial: Yes, the taxpayer has received this in 2009 due to the irresponsible policy of FPÖ in Carinthia. We note, however, that at the end of the day the costs for taxpayers are as low as possible and that the banks are paying for them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4774	Mrs. Glawischnig-Piesczek is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4801	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I have now taken this sign out because I believe that it is not only about debt allocations, but also that it is important to understand that this financial crime, this Hypo Alpe-Adria, actually has a very massive impact on the Austrian population. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] This means that very massive prospects for the future are indisputable in a very difficult time. And that is important questions. This is the question of financing care, the financing of education, the financing of our universities, which will de facto be the victims of all of this bank. I think one thing is probably indisputable – Klubobmann Strache is just going out –: The big bang of this whole disaster has, of course, been the free system in Carinthia. That is absolutely indisputable. I find it absurd to argue about this even further now. That was the big bang. That was the starting point of this whole miscarriage. But, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ and the ÖVP, that cannot be the reason for not talking about the failure of control, the failure of supervision, the refusal of control, the reluctance to do so, about bankruptcy, about all that happened the years after the emergency state. That can't be true! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This drama has several files, and we all have to look at them, all in a row! And it is remarkable that there is a need for a special meeting of the opposition that Federal Chancellors and Vice Chancellors are failing to make a statement in the National Council. I have to say that clearly and clearly. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: But that's unfair now! That's not true at all! The explanations were planned!]] It is really a shame to hide for a week, not even to contest the Council of Ministers and to step in front of the press, not even to have the courage to comment on a serious, concrete solution. There needs to be a special meeting of the opposition, to which the club members of both parties have said: That's not necessary at all! – So I have to say that is not what we are talking about under parliamentarianism and under “reading and responding to the people”. That, we hope, will be different in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even the President of the Federal Republic has seen this. This is not my view alone now. It is finally a serious debate about this huge problem: The FPÖ does deny it, but the big bang has taken place in Carinthia. That's indisputable. There were even contacts with criminal associations, the Croatian Mafia et cetera. And this immense damage, which was then further cumulated, needs clarification. We want to know all this exactly, and you will not get your national shoulder closure now, but you will get your parliamentary investigation committee if you finally give up your refusal to control. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] There were five ÖVP finance ministers who, after the series, contributed to this; the first was Karl-Heinz Grasser, who re-structured banking supervision. And I'm wondering, What happened to the supervision, why has this control failure actually occurred? If there have been critical reports, why have there been no consequences? If there are no critical reports, I wonder: Why were there no critical reports? So you're actually in the drawing on both of these questions, and that's what education needs. We are increasing pressure, we want a committee of inquiry, and that as soon as possible, and we want to have mercilessly explained why this inspection and supervision failure could take place over years – and that was not just the system of Haider. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] In 2008 we had to deal with a Finance Minister Wilhelm Molterer, whom I would like to call the father of the blackmail, because at that time it started: The Banking Investigation Committee was just turned off when exactly these questions were still open – and that is documented. Financial speakers Kogler's comments are clear. He said quite clearly, even as a warning to you on the government bank, the whole area of Hypo Alpe-Adria has not yet been clarified. And yet you, both with your majority, have prevented this investigation work and thus caused further damage. So it's not like you can push all of this away from yourself. Then it went on. The night when the emergency state was decided will always remain a mystery to us if we do not look closely at it. We demand a very precise, precise analysis of this one night: Who was informed when? Which documents are available at what time? We'd like to see the call protocols. We want to know all about this - in the sense of the Austrian taxpayers and the Austrian population. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Maria Fekter, I am sorry, Mrs. former Minister of Finance, you have been fighting with your hands and feet for years, so with all your means resisting that the Bad Bank solution is coming, while all other European countries have already started this solution. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, it's not!]] Yeah, right at the time, that's where they started the process in this way. And even Andreas Schieder called himself for a bad-bank solution at the time – perhaps the reason why you are not going to speak today. That was the right decision at the time. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's not true! Read the list of speakers!]] – First, as a clubman and not sometime in the back, it might have been good to present the opinion of the group. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Are you offended because I'm talking about you?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Master Teacher! The clubs still determine when who's talking!]] I would have liked to know, because he was there on the night of emergency nationalization. Maybe he can tell us about it again. I insist: I would like all the facts on the table! Maximum transparency and no further cover-up, Mr Lopatka! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And then the mister goes on: In the election campaign, there is a budget lie, and after the election it turns out, there is a budget hole, and then it is pretended as if there was no budget hole again. And now, at once after an appointment with the banks, there is for the first time a serious discussion about the problem of Hypo Alpe-Adria. I can tell you one thing: As a green person we have made a special contribution, especially the Greens in Carinthia. If there had not been the green reconnaissance work and the work of Rolf Holub, against the resistances of all parties, then today there would be minimal transparency and no opportunity to clarify it again. We have tried to save the files and to create something useful in this Parliament. But, well, that's our role. So, and now to the present, and from my point of view, this is the most important point: Is there still investment funds, hedge funds, banks like raiffeisen, which will continue to benefit from the hypo that will benefit the Austrian tax payers who will make a maximum contribution to the Austrian population according to your idea? This is the central question that is still at stake. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They didn't say anything about that!]] Much would have been avoidable in the past, but one can avoid some damage even now. And that is now the central and most important point for us as a green person, and it should also be for you as a government: minimizing the damage to the Austrian population, so that we do not have room for room in the field of future investment, because 100 percent of the total damage to the taxpayers, to the budget, is lost. Until the hour, speculators still whit the shops. And it really can't be! It can't be that now business is still being done in confidence, it's fine anyway – or it's going well anyway. That must not be, and we will know that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Except you give a guarantee that you will pay for it, but that's not how it is. So, finally, once again: All facts on the table, maximum transparency! Let Parliament do educational work! Let's look at the state emergency! Let us look at the control and supervision failure de facto since 2000/2001! – as a minimum condition that such a thing can no longer happen in the future. And then, please, we need a solution that saves massive taxpayers and the creditors in fact commits: Investment funds, banks, speculators, other creditors, old-age property. In my view, these are not well-belief and worthy of protection, but must be taken into account. That is what it is all about now, and we will fight for it for the next few weeks and months. They have now remained clearly inconspicuous: A solution should be put on the table until summer. What's meant by that is unclear for me. Does that mean that until then the settlement is actually over the stage, or does that mean that after these four years you will need another month to make a common decision? I suspect second, because I do not have the impression that there is something like a common approach to this issue in this Federal Government. At the Federal Chancellor you have the feeling: This isn't really my business, I saved the bank charge anyway! – By the way, it would have to be lifted for the next 40 years in order to partially rehabilitate the disaster. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's where you've settled! That's where you paid off.]] And on the other hand, I have the impression of a very overwhelming one, I say clearly, financial resorts, where the question of deciding to go to the Ministry of Finance has not been sufficiently addressed. It is not only a question of control failure and supervisory failure, but also of political failure over many years, of political failure of a great coalition, which in fact has also reached its end with this hypo alpe-Adria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e4976	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5020	I don't quite understand your excitement. Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we have experienced so far from the opposition is an unholy alliance: Here, the liberals who have every responsibility of their own as regards their former Federal Party observer Jörg Haider, on the other hand, the Greens who now fall within the role of fundamental opposition. Last week Klubobmann deputy Kogler called the Federal Government in the “ZiB 2” literally “organized criminal gangs”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's not true at all!]] As ‘organized criminal gangs’! You can check that out in the TV library. Today, your club woman appears here and refuses to take part in this national epaulment, which we would need in this difficult situation. You like it! But we need the opposite! And we must stick to the facts here, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website A few weeks later, in his press meeting on the way to London, he called for Moody’s rating agency: As long as the country of Carinthia holds the majority, all the bank operations of the Hypo are covered by bomb protection. If necessary, the Carinthian taxpayers will jump in for the risks. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: It was a bomb!]] – Yes, he said “bombproof”. What we need to do now is to detonate this hypo bomb, ladies and gentlemen. At that time she was laid. The self-understanding of the head of state Haider was one that already distinguished him from other national leaders. He then immediately went to the region and called the hypo – literally – the flagship of the economic pursuits of Carinthia, and he wanted to support this flagship. In his presence, sponsor contracts have been signed in millions. He asked for billions of business here. Willingly his wishes have been fulfilled. [[Abg. May. Darmann: What business did he require? Tell me!]] And he still said in 2005 when he was in the “press hour” on 10 October 2005. April 2005 has been asked how he sees the hypo – I quote literally –: “We are the most successful bank in Austria today with our own bank, Hypo Alpe-Adria AG!” – that was his self-esteem. How did he come to this self-esteem? It has been addressed by the head of state Zernatto. Under the head of state Zernatto there were also liabilities of the country Carinthia, but they were at 2.3 billion. Then Land captain Haider came, and you see it: Under the head of state, Haider, these liabilities have increased to 24.7 billion words! [[Abg. Strache: And the ÖVP voted in favour!]] And this billion-dollar hypo backpack, ladies and gentlemen, is the reason why we have this billion-dollar debacle today, because without the national liabilities, the hypo would never have received these billions, the risk management could not have been neglected so much, I could also say that it could be turned off. [[Abg. Strache: Because the ÖVP has decided with the SPÖ the liability!]] [[Abg. Kickl: I hope you don't believe what you're saying!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one must also say: Head of State Haider was so strong that in the Landtag – and there you are right – the other parties also agreed to these liabilities. And what the Greens always keep secret: ==References== In April 2004, the decisions of the State of Carinthia were taken unanimously in the Carinthia Landtag. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's completely wrong!]] – Look ==References====External links== April 2004! – No votes against the Greens. You just need to go Google, you'll find it right away. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There has been decided to expire the liability! What are you talking about?]] That has been extended to 2017. You say it right, Mr Kogler, you see it right. This Carinthian hypo backpack, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have to wear. And I'll tell you one thing: I think it is particularly great cow and I would like to say that Klubobmann Strache is doing this unsuitable distraction attempt here and would like to criminalise Ministers Pröll, Fekter and Spindelegger by saying that the subject matter is already on the way to the public prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, instead of accusing these unjust accusations and accusations, it would be better for you to apologize today for the conduct of your predecessor as a federal party. I'll tell you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The crime case Hypo Alpe-Adria has long been active. There are more than a hundred accused. There are already legally condemned bankers – all personalities in whose environment your head of state, your Federal Councillor Dörfler and others have sung. [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Kulterer is already from the ÖVP, isn't he?]] Yeah, that hurts, Klubobmann Stache, but I have to tell you. This is the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic. And the man with whom you agreed to the home of the Carinthian Freedoms in the Federal Party, Uwe Scheuch, has on 1st. On 1 March 2010 the Commission adopted: “The Hypo-Alpe-Adria is a success story.” – Unfortunately, the exact opposite is the case. What we have is a billion debacle. And this billion-dollar debacle that we have forced the Republic to carry out this emergency nationalization in 2009. [[Abg. Strache: What kind of need? What need?]] Let me also say something about why we were forced to carry out this emergency nationalization. Some facts in 2009 were completely unstable in financial markets. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Raiffeisen!]] At the time, Austria has paid for its bonds a lot of what we have to pay today. And we were concerned about bringing Austria out of this financial crisis as much as possible. And – we are certified internationally – we have been better able than the other to get out of this crisis, also because we have not allowed an Austrian bank – and the Hypo Alpe-Adria, although then owned by the Germans, has of course been seen as an Austrian bank – the first to go bankrupt. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Bavaria didn't want a bankruptcy at all!]] It was the head of the European Central Bank Jean-Claude Trichet, who entered the negotiations and said that Austria should do everything to save this bank. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And the Bavaria should not do anything?- Oh, my God!]] This bank was then classified as a system-relevant – not only for Austria, but, as you know, also for the South-East European region. [[Abg. That's what the junker was fighting!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's not true at all!]] Of course, it has been classified as a system-relevant. There has been this opinion here from the Austrian National Bank. This classification was made by the ECB and the European Commission at the time. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They have been required, I can prove that to you!]] – Yes, we can need the ECB and the European Commission! Mr Kogler, you disqualify yourself with every call, I tell you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The central bank has been required by the government! You're a twist artist!]] Let's stick to the facts! The main reason, however, was what the liberals always negate: These 19, almost 20 billion, which we had at the time in December 2009, would have been beaten immediately, would that bank have gone into insolvency. [[Abg. Strache: And that is what the Bavarian Minister of Finance has excluded in court!]] 19 billion € would have been beaten immediately! And at European level, this fire has been feared. That is why, I tell you, breathing was great when this emergency nationalization took place. [[Abg. Strache: In Munich they knocked on the thighs when they saw what Austrian incompetents are on their way!]] I'm just quoting the Financial Times that meant: Austria prevents the banking sector from operating. The recognized, renowned “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” wrote at the time: ‘Austria prevents the domino effect.’ What happened in the four years? – First of all, it has succeeded in reducing the liability from €24.7 billion to just over €12 billion. [[Abg. Kickl: Because they're out, that's why! That's incredible!]] Secondly, we have achieved through the bank levy – which is the highest in Europe, twice as high as in other countries, ten times as high as in Germany – that there is a great contribution from the banks to the budget. You always leave that aside. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's right!]] Thank you, Mr Kogler, for listening. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I always listen!]] The third point I would like to make is: Minister of Finance Fekter has negotiated strongly with the European Commission and has achieved that this approval decision contains a number of improvements to our position. Now it is about – and this has been clearly stated by Minister Spindelegger today – bringing this to a close fastest conclusion, in a form – and that has always been our guideline – which is the cheapest for taxpayers. After all, it is difficult enough to explain to taxpayers why we now have to stand up for what has been done in Carinthia. You always confuse here, colleague Kickl, the arsonist with the fire brigade. [[Abg. Kickl: You explain...!]] The Federal Government must act here as a fire brigade. [[Abg. Strache: You carried the fire from Bavaria to Austria!]] It would be good for you to make your contribution here in this difficult situation, not to act Party-politically, but to take on your political responsibility – late, but still – now.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5406	The next word to speak is Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5429	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Representatives of the media and visitors to the gallery! Say hello to God! – I hope my speaking time is not yet running. [[Abg. Who set the fire? That's the question!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are the fire accelerator!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Listen!]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I can quote the following statements, all of which were made after the nationalization of the bank. Organs of Hypo announce in May 2010: “No profit is planned for 2010, but in 2011, we want to write black numbers again, as well as in the following years.” The then Minister of Finance 2013: There'll be another surprise. Hypo Alpe-Adria will not cost the taxpayer any more. [[Abg. Strache: This is “competence”!]] The then Minister of Finance: Banks are not given any money. We have a winning expectation of € 1 billion in the next five years. High government representatives said: We safely led Austria through the economic and banking crisis and regained the Triple A. Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that you have kept yourself more or less covered in the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria, is no longer surprising after these quotations. Actually, you have to expect that during this meeting you will be overwhelmed by the opposition with accusations and hems. Perhaps you also deserved this because you may not have been quite honest with the people in this country, but maybe it just didn't go any better. I may surprise you at this point and say that my intention and the intention of the Stronach team is not such. We have embarked on developing and supporting material solutions. The collection of quotations at the outset should simply be a reason to support an investigation committee in order to clarify political responsibility since 2009, in particular the issues of liability when one and the same act in the private sector punishes but appears to be protected by immunity in political everyday life. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The statements of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, the President of the Bank of notes and interviews by former institutions are highly provoking the Enlightenment. Twelve years in one of the largest and most successful companies in the world have taught me one thing: If there's a problem, solve it quickly. When the most famous management professor of the world Peter Drucker was asked how to sum up his hundreds of lectures and books to the essentials, he replied: When there is a problem here, what you have to do. – Make it quick and tell people the truth, even if it is unpleasant! Without this spirit, it's probably not going to be here either. Insolvency is seen as a process of cleaning and as an opportunity for a company. The same should also apply to public bodies. And insolvency also means that creditors have to make a contribution. Nothing stands in the way of insolvency, and it would also be the easiest legal opportunity to get Bavaria to make a contribution over the right of equity, which you have never incomprehensiblely sued for years. The guarantee provider, the country of Carinthia, also obtained similar results. Of course, Carinthia would also have to make a contribution. No wonder that hundreds of banks in North America were the preferred solution in the financial crisis. In Europe this is already different, in Austria this is completely different, because here the state intervenes in so many areas of life and even socializes the losses of banks. So perhaps the “not distressed” certificate was well meant, but not right. But we were caught by the European Commission in the twirl. In this way, we would risk an insolvency scenario of billions of heavy civil liability cases, which the government, the central bank and supervision understandably fear. No one can quantify these risks; you may be right that you do not want to take these risks at all. If you are not seeking insolvency, then you need to solve the two major problems you face in the sense of Peter Printers as soon as possible. In order to do so, you must immediately separate yourself from those who have actually made a great deal of use to you, otherwise you will lack any credibility for the citizens, for the opposition, in fact also for your own Members, who say, in the face of four eyes, how awfully all this has been managed. One problem is the loans from Bavaria in the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Do the negotiations or complain, but get back the billions of gifts made to Bavaria! Good businessmen will also understand this in Munich. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the FPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] The same applies to the contribution of the country of Carinthia. The Federation has no legal obligation to free the country from the pleite – just a moral one. And, of course, a future fund that is fed out of the sales proceeds of Hypo Alpe-Adria must contribute to this and constitute a minimum contribution of the Carinthians. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Problem two is the time problem. Acknowledging Austrian experts, especially the OeNB chief and his predecessors, who may well find themselves in the task force, show the great time problem. Only a committee of inquiry can find out why, according to Governor Novotny, this proposal of a Bad Bank was not implemented three and a half years ago, but – on the contrary! – was rejected by the Ministry of Finance. Today, we are talking about a Bad Bank, which was already called for, with a big difference, namely that the deadline granted by the EU expires in 2015. Under massive time pressure, it will of course be particularly difficult for the Republic on a going-group basis. Now you can prove that in a short time you will pick up those years you think there would be no political responsibility for that. It won't be easy. My proposal, our proposal: Get a private majority owner who is interested in making money with the settlement! And give it to this one if he does it well! Please do not accept the advice you have already paid to the €400 million! A political owner of companies and banks is usually a bad owner. Dispensing You do not make the creditors free of charge the credit quality of Austria, but make an exchange offer that represents a cash value of all creditors over the maturity and interest rate! And trust yourself at last to give a range of losses in the sense of political responsibility! Please do not confuse ongoing liquidity requirements with the amounts of possible credit defaults! It seems to me that apples are often confused with pears. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, right!]] With regard to banking renovations in North America, Austrian policy often accuses them of being enforced with a certain degree of hardness. But show us how to complete a renovation in such a short time in a patient and loving way just as efficiently and successfully! Faith You know, Harvard professors would come to Austria right away and rewrite their books. I don't mean that cynically, either, but I wish with all my heart that this could work for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5545	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5567	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Citizens' values on the screens and on the crowd edge! Estimated media representatives! I thank the opposition, opposition colleagues, for devoting them to the hypo today. I think that's a real step. Thank you for convening this special meeting. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to talk about responsibility and further about a sick system. We have a sick system here, which, unfortunately, at the expense of the taxpayer/taxer. I think that what we are experiencing here in these days is just a bulwark of a moral and political bankruptcy, which naturally attracts much larger circles. Mr Bundeskanzler, you asked: How could this problem come about? – The answer is obvious: It's a systemic problem. The system just shranks through and through, the disease is called filtation. The felt is guilty of these phenomena. This not only claims the opposition, but also writes the “NZZ”, which is not a boulevard medium. There it says: These are “Politics who are concerned with unpleasant decisions, party-political dependencies in many authorities and institutions, and control bodies that have not grown up or who do not want to carry out their duties.” And it is in this shattered system that ‘participative and client interests are placed beyond that of the State as a whole’. – This is the finding of the ‘NZZ’. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And of course that should make us thinkful. This is a failure of broad political leadership, also a failure of the red-black-organized control bodies and a failure of the two former major parties. The falsification takes place. You haven't made any institutions so far that you can only recognize the phenomenon or just be prepared to counter it. Of course, fire is on the roof. Today we have a debt ratio of 81 percent of GDP. 81 percent! We were at 63 percent in 2008. So within six years, we've increased almost a third. Almost a third within six years! That's incredible! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: “financial crisis” is the word! You've noticed that, haven't you?- Oh, my God!]] We are today at a point where we are worse than Greece 15 years ago. And if we continue for ten years, we'll be where Greece is today in ten years' time. We just need to keep writing this. And you find all this perfectly normal. You'll find it quite normal. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But, Mr Strolz, this is already apodic!]] Now I would like to say the following: Of course, the origin of the disaster hypo is the system Haider. But you also have to see how you have given the compliments of ÖVP and SPÖ here. There is a Josef Martinz, who was the economic councillor and also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Kärntner Landes- and Mortgage Bank Holding. So what's he doing? Why doesn't he do anything? – Of course, he carried all of this. There is a review report of the OeNB of May 2007 which states: There's a danger in the hypo. That was in May 2007! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Much earlier!]] At the end of 2008, the National Bank says: In general, everything is actually all right. I wonder, How could that be? How can it be in the National Bank that suddenly within a year the spontaneous healing takes place, and today we have an 18 billion hole? And by chance, these control organs are red and black. We have then seen three finance ministers – Mrs Fekter, I cannot leave you out of duty; Mr Spindelegger, neither do you; Sepp Pröll of course not – who look at the events in a shock star, without them... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Wrong!]] – Well, you have introduced a bank tax, the highest in Europe, and are proud of it. But you didn't know what to do with the hypo. And I'll tell you: Incompetence is the most friendly attribute you can use here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have no idea!]] Mr. Bundeskanzler, that's what you're talking about: We've seen a bulldozer. I thought the time of the Schweizkanzler is over, but no. If we don't invite you to Parliament or invite you, you won't come. I don't think that's okay, because over Austria, the vulture circles when we continue. [[The speaker holds a poster on which a trust mark and the inscription “Who-takes responsibility?” can be seen in height.]] And the question is: Who takes responsibility if not the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance? [[The speaker sticks the poster just mentioned to the front of the government bank.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's not true! Don't be so polemic! It hurts!]] Well, we're above the point that Greece was 15 years ago. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek removes the poster with the pledge mark from the government bank.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But this is really impossible! About Carinthia circles the vulture!]] [[Further calls and calls.]] Do you know who's overwhelmed? – You have no understanding of parliamentary, democratic processes. [[Unrest in the hall.]] A different example of the felt. I invite Mr Leitl, who is always calling on Parliament from the outline and calling for changes, and I invite Mr Leitl to hold meetings in Parliament. Mr Leitl says no, he doesn't want to come because he doesn't want to interfere. And then there's... [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Now you've gone too far!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Can I do that?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5736	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down again and let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5762	Then there is positive benevolent action, but even he does not understand that he is acting pre-democraticly. He refuses to talk to Parliament. And then he invites me to a press conference to hear on Wednesday what Parliament will decide on Thursday. This is the transformation of social partners, parties et cetera, which leads to these phenomena. And you don't understand that. You are completely missing the look for the systemic error that prevails here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That was too much!]] What do we want? – We wish we had an Austrian Spring of Democracy. And if it wasn't that spring, maybe next year or in the next few years. I wish for federalism reform. Let us take this point on the occasion that we say that we are reorganizing federalism! Let's give the countries either tax responsibility! If they don't want to take over, we don't have to land days. If you want us to be a constructive opposition, please let us do our job, namely control. Give us an investigative committee! [[Congratulations with NEOS, Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Even Vorarlberg's head of state Markus Wallner says today at www.vol.at that he wants an investigation committee. Even your country leaders... [[Abg. May. Schieder: In Vorarlberg, or where?]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Is this your federalism reform if the head of state buys something?]] – The Vorarlberg government has also taken over four times as much liability as the national budget is. So even the Vorarlbergers made a bad figure there, of course. What else do we want? – We want an insolvency right for local authorities. We've already brought this in. We're going to bring this back to us today. We want immediate negotiations with creditors, we will also make a request today. We want to set up a Commission for federalism reform. That's what we want. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Only if Markus Wallner buys something!]] And we want to be a constructive opposition. If that is what you want, Mr Vice-Chancellor, then you must involve us. We had a first informal conversation last Thursday. This too would probably not have been achieved if we had not increased the pressure. If you want constructive cooperation, you need to involve us. You can't drive 18 billion € past Parliament. I can't do that! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[10:08]] [[10:08:35]] Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5859	I announce that the Members of Parliament are DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to investigate political and legal responsibility in connection with the ‘not nationalisation’ of Hypo Alpe-Adria in 2009 and the (current) resolution of Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – In case of business orders, please waive by-catches. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. The Members of Parliament also have power. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure request that an investigation committee on Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank be set up – please refer to the exact title given in the distributed request. This is also the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. Since the subject-matter of all applications for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is similar, I will, in agreement with the applicants, proceed in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases, namely that all applications are first justified and then the debate is carried out under one. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall take place the debate and the votes after completion of the agenda. We continue in the debate. Next, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e5915	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the beginning of the meeting and then again during this session, President-in-Office of the Council pointed out that it is appropriate, as far as the dignity of the House is concerned, to be moderate in tone, perhaps in one word or another, used in a debate that is too hot. [[Abg. Wheeler: Take it!]] But one thing is missing, namely the call to stay in this House with the truth and, in particular, not to continue on the part of the Government Bank a course in which people are once again trying to sell for stupid! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what has happened over many parts here today. In fact, I find it very, very unfortunate not to say that the Federal Government's obligation to provide information to the Austrian population is designed to spread information in this House and on the screens of Desinformation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now he is not here again, Mr. Faymann, although he probably needs it more than some others here, to hear what is to be said. But it is important to clarify one or the other in connection with the hypo. One has to look at the history of the hypo, where I would, in general, hold two parts: The first part of the story of Hypo, ladies and gentlemen, is the era of Haider. This ends with the sale of this bank to the Bayerische Landesbank, which resulted in the country of Carinthia in the liability chain that it has previously provided – parentheses on: these are the liability chains in which your Landes-Hypobanken are up to the present day: Austria, Tyrol, Vorarlberg; Clamp to –, quite, is rowed backwards and the Bavarian Landesbank and the Land of Bavaria stand at the front. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's wrong!]] This means, in addition, that the liability for Carinthia would have become as good as ever. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there is a phase two in the history of the hypo – and now comes the special performance of the SPÖ and ÖVP governments. The Minister of Finance has already failed, but two agents in the form of former Secretary of State are still sitting here. That's your special performance now, and that's the era two. It then looks like one has released the Bayern out of this liability again. And both the Bavarian Landesbank and the Free State of Bavaria have been released from this liability again – for this the Republic of Austria has jumped in, and the country of Carinthia has slipped forward again. You can only “gratulate” you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are holding these debates here and why these debates are not held in Bavaria, where they actually belong. This is really a “master’s achievement! ” And if you are talking about the heritage of the hypo, you should focus your attention on this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... held the liability!]] We have heard today, ladies and gentlemen: €300 million in consulting costs are part of the cost the hypo has caused in recent years since 2009. Some talk about €480 million, but let's take 300 million and take a closer look at this: 300 million – with an average hourly rate of 365 € per hour, 821 918 means working and consulting hours, Mr. State Secretary, except for Lopatka! That's 102,740 working days on consulting. And if one now assumes that the consultants not only consult on hypo, but perhaps have other tasks, then it comes out under the rule that 489 consultants only worked on the hypo for four years and advised you! And then you get here and then you figure out what came out today, what you can sum up under the motto: I know I don't know anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was the key statement of the Federal Government, both by the Federal Chancellor and by Mr Spindelegger. That's quite clever for a philosopher, but that's a disaster for someone who believes he has to lead a marode bank out of the mister. The Minister of Finance then goes here and says: I need something more, Hohes Haus; I can't give precise information, dear Austrian people, because I still need time! - Well, it's only been four years in the country. It was only four years, that's all nothing. In these four years, nothing has happened. And don't come by saying you've depreciated any debts, because: The bonds, which run out by themselves, have expired at this time – and you want to put that on your hat as a spring now. [[Abg. Strache: That’s the “master achievement ” at all!]] This is a joke, ladies and gentlemen. That would have done itself in this form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You would be well advised to apply for the chair of the Association for the delay of time. This might be the appropriate item, but certainly not to take over the crisis management of a repressed bank. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The club is great! That's where I'm a member.]] They act like cemetery gardeners, ladies and gentlemen! So, what's the result? That was now a part of the result, where it is about political and economic, but there is another result, and that is the explosion of possible debt. 2 billion €, we have heard; Novotny and National Bank have the seal of quality on it. At the end of 2008 it was said: Everything is fine; maximum damage of € 2 billion. – And now we assume that we might be talking about €19 billion. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wins are written! Wins!]] Now you can do it the way you do it, because you're trying to put this development around the Jörg Haider. That's interesting. [[Abg. Strache: Dr. Haider from the beyond probably influenced Mrs. Fekter! It's probably going to be! From the beyond, he has disabled the government!]] This can be done, but it can only be done on condition that one seriously assumes that Jörg Haider, Josef Pröll and the then Secretary of State for Finance Lopatka and the then Secretary of State for Finance, are both suspected of getting Bavarian orders very soon for what they have listed in connection with the Hypo, to make a big mistake. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, he must have done this from the beyond, because in 2009, when you did, he had been dead for over a year. So, according to your explanations, we assume that Jörg Haider from the beyond has brought you to it, that you have needed to hang around this entire liability backpack and debt backpack of Bavaria without any need. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: You are only hurting that your Jörg Haider is guilty!]] I don't know how you're doing. Does he appear to you, or do you hear voices? – I would like to know, because if you attach the responsibility to Jörg Haider, it can only be that way. If you now assume that the Jörg Haider is still responsible for this – and it always comes out that nothing has happened since 2009, except that the bonds have run out by themselves, then Jörg Haider must have appeared to you again from the beyond. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Does he always appear to you, or what? Do you have any appearances?]] [[Abg. Strache: You are telling all the time that you are...!]] And I hope you don't really mean it as seriously as you say, because otherwise I'm back to what I said today: The word “anstalt, ” which has been very, very often stressed lately, then gets a very different meaning. Then you are a case for the parapsychologist, Mr Cot Schieder and Mr Lopatka. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now, something else comes to mind when we talk about the possible burden on taxpayers: You know, the money's not gone, the money's just elsewhere! The money never dissolves, but it goes somewhere else. That's why we ask the question: Where did it go? Don't be angry with me, I believe that the Austrian people have the right to ask those ladies and gentlemen who were responsible for it in a committee of inquiry these questions and that these ladies and gentlemen cannot then make their usual propaganda from here, sitting behind me, but that they must declare it under the duty of truth. This is the fine difference between what you can tell here and what you have to deliver in an investigation committee. That's why you resist with your hands and feet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are the hands of the money? – The experts' hands have already been mentioned. € 300 million since 2009 with the result: I know I don't know anything. Value adjustments and credit depreciation might also be an interesting chapter, where you should take a close look. Who, in these years, were the profitors of the valuations and credit depreciations, or, somewhat salopp formulated: Who did you throw the money to? – To investigate this too would be very, very interesting once. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes! What about the Graz mutuals? Where is it?]] Yes, and then we also remember: The Bavarian hands, these are also hands, into which very, very much money has migrated by that you have taken the step of which you always claim it was an emergency nationalization. In reality, it was a nationalization without any need! You will not be able to get rid of the fact that you are meeting this point of responsibility, which has brought a damage – which it may have done at the beginning –; in the infinitely almost, I would like to say. That's your part of responsibility! I find this really adventurous! You can read this in the minutes from the court proceedings in Munich – you might want to do that, too: They laughed and couldn't believe it! They couldn't take their luck when the Minister of Finance went there and said: Imagine, we talked to the Austrians about helping us with the hypo's problems, and then they came up with the idea that we were going to state the whole bank! – Yes for God’s sake, that was a holiday for Bavaria! It was a holiday, and they are still looking forward to such a... – that they have managed to find someone who is taking this thing away from them. That's really interesting! And this is your part of the responsibility, Mr. Lopatka – even if you look down now; and Mr. Schieder has probably left the room. [[Abg. Strache: That's why the Bavaria complains before the deadline expires! The Bavaria finally complain before the deadline expires!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This was a holiday for Carinthia, because the liability he held, Mr. Landeshuptmann!]] [[Abg. Strache: Outlaws! ...!]] And: Of course, money is also in the hands of those you now take from the solution you are talking about, even from the point of view of duty. These are “at random” the other Land Mortgage Banks and the Raiffeisen Banks. These are left outside in the institution you prefer – “at random” all of them are black in the coal rasp. There is a circle where I think there is a very, very much need for information. And all these approaches we have chosen here from the opposition, and all these questions we have asked here, we would also like to ask you in a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Strache: Please agree to a committee of inquiry today!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: In Carinthia we already had him!]] Believe me, if that were such a free scandal, Mr Lopatka – you were a long Secretary-General, I know you well enough – you would be able to access both hands if you believed you could even place a small piece of dirt with the Freeman. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: They're so clean! So clean!]] But you defend yourself against this investigation committee with your hands and feet, because you're still in the red and black fog in connection with the emergency state.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e6257	Mr Kickl, you have made several calls during the speech of Mr Krainer. I have let myself come to the preliminary stenographic protocol and I particularly welcome a comment from you in the direction of Mr Krainer. You said: “I think you are not quite in your speech!” Mr President, I give you a call for an order for it. [[Abg. Strache: That's a question!]] [[Abg. Kickl: So how to call this state? – I ask for proposals!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the other hand, you believe it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Mr President, have you heard the speech? – Then you would be to the same...!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is absolutely not amusing and funny! The issue of a call for order, Mr Kogler, this way of commenting is absolutely inappropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: They all clap, although they didn't hear it at all! They're pretty together!]] Please, Mr Kucher.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e6365	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These methods are probably already known to colleagues among you who have been sitting here in the House for a long time. For me as a new Member of this House, this is already a very surprising behaviour, which we have experienced today, especially from the FPÖ, that especially those who are in this hypo-causa, in this whole mess, are the first to point their fingers at others and give wise advice here in the House. Here, let us once again keep track of the facts – they have been addressed more often today – about the Causa Hypo, how this inconceivable miscarriage could come about: The fatal expansion course of the Hypo has been carried out in close coordination with Jörg Haider and the liberal finance councils. [[Abg. May. Darmann:... Supervisory Boards? How's that?]] Many political prestige projects were financed directly through the hypo. I only remember the Klagenfurt Seebühne, its own – now insolvent – airline, the Schlosshotel Velden. The takeover of high national liability was also an idea of the liberal financial referents because they wanted to get the necessary playing money for the Landeskassa via the liability commissions. And yes, the other Carinthian parties, the SPÖ, the ÖVP and also the Greens, were brought to light on the question of the country's liability by the respective national financial advisers and hypo supervisory commissioners. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you remember who was Minister of Finance at the time? . I do not want to look into whether Karl-Heinz Grasser was still a FPÖ member at the time or not. In any case, it is fixed: He certainly wasn't a SPÖ member. And a close proximity to the greens will also be difficult to prove to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The attack-like sale of the hypo to the Bayerische Landesbank was also an idea of Jörg Haider, assisted by Josef Martinz – without a public tender and behind the back of the SPÖ, the Greens and the public. In 2009, the so-called emergency nationalization took place, to which some colleagues have already reported in detail today, in retrospect, with wise advice. Let us therefore recall the dramatic situation in December 2009: Two weeks before Christmas, the blockage of all hypo accounts was established in the room. The State Commissioner has already taken a hotel room in Klagenfurt to prevent the closing of the bank branches the next day. Until the early hours of the morning, many Carinthian hypo customers did not know whether they would receive their money the next day with their bankomatk8arte, or not – regardless of whether they were in the plus or minus with their account. It has also happened to many Carinthian entrepreneurs who have not known how it will continue. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig and Mr Strache, I am not aware of any reasonable solution that could have led to a solution in the situation at that time, and unfortunately this has not changed until now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since we have discussed political responsibility more often today and there is also the plan to set up a committee of inquiry to set up a next committee of inquiry, I can read to you two quotations by Rolf Holub from the committee of inquiry of the country of Carinthia – there have even been two: It can be found that the emergency nationalisation of the Hypo Group Alpes-Adria could have been prevented if all of the Bank’s reported operational weaknesses had been fixed in a timely and comprehensive manner since 2001. In this respect, political responsibility lies in the context of the national liability of the financial reference countries. Karl Pfeifenberger, Dr. Jörg Haider and Mag. Harald Dobernig. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Look at this!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Whether you want to hear it or not: The hypo-miser was, is and remains a liberal scandal. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a Carinthian MP, I cannot now allow this scandal to be suddenly re-interpreted into a scandal of the new Carinthian state government or even the Federal Government. ==References====External links== In March of last year, the consequences have also given confidence to a new state government, with an impressive election result, and it is now fairly fighting to regain confidence throughout Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] It cannot be, however, that those who have political responsibility for the fact that the House of Carinthia has been financially burned are now responsible for those who have been entrusted with the disposal work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What about the future fund?]] Quite clearly in the direction of the Freeman and the Lord Strache, who is unfortunately not in the hall: I really ask you not to do so on this issue, because you do not believe it yourself that now, suddenly, Federal Chancellor Faymann or Minister of Finance Spindelegger, Mr Spindelegger, are responsible for what your blue party friends have listed in Carinthia. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e6466	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e6488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is rightly demanded that the opposition also make a constructive contribution. We'll make an effort. The opposition has several tasks in this House, especially if the representatives of the government groups – on the one hand, because of the Austrian reality, on the other, but also because of other failures and misconceptions – fail to perform certain tasks. We'll deal with it later. We are going to have to look at these things from the supervisory failure from the end of the nineties to the end of the bankruptcy. It is right now, however, to perhaps look at the solutions at this item on the agenda, but not too much has been done by the government so far. I will then go into it immediately, and I will also invite the other opposition parties to cooperate and to think together. In many years, there has been a very first attempt – it was started by Mr Spindelegger on a provisional basis last week – and it has not succeeded for a long time – to exchange this affair at all. This has not been possible for four and a half years now. I'm aware of that. I've said it last time. That does not mean, however, that we are coming to a common solution, because what has been listed here so far, and then the opposition to demand an shoulder closure, that is of course already a strong piece. First, by the way, it will need an shoulder closure for a U-committee, because without any information, it will not go – but we will still be able to do so. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] We will also agree with Mr Strolz that this was something that I believe has been overstretched when, in the Austrian Parliament, the cuckoo, the vulture in front of the Minister of Finance, is being picked up in front of the Austrian Parliament in front of an ongoing camera for the whole world. [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] I think that this is totally missing, and I think it is unworthy. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, Mr Strolz, that's how it happens: They want to do a good thing at each meeting, and every tenth time, something comes out. You should go inside. However, we will try, as opposition in common – we already need it, because the members of the government will still need some support – not only to push forward the investigations, but also to address the solutions. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] I come to the questions what is to be done and what must not happen. Who is worthy of protection in this matter, Mr Finanzminister? Are these the Austrian taxpayers? [[Call the ÖVP:For sure!]] Or is it – you only have to listen for a while first, because I have to describe what the process is – those old owners and predecessors that the bank has managed with it? This is not only the Federal State of Carinthia, and this is still a public institution; then you get confused with your argument. Of course, Carinthia will have to make a contribution, but that is to be looked at separately. By the way, the Carinthians do not need to be afraid, and that was exactly the fault of our colleague Strolz. The federal bonds, the interest we pay – the credit quality of the federal government is still very, very good, and so the Republic of Austria is the protective shield for Carinthia. That's what we're gonna do. This cannot mean, however, that in what you have been looking for up to now, vice versa – and I come back to the main topic – those on the other side should get the money. These are – depending on – still more than €10 billion, we say 13, which are currently violently waving. These €13 billion – this is €5500 per Austrian family; if now a four-member family is sitting in front of the TV: nailing She's going to her house because the government could come by! –, 5 500 € per Austrian family, should be taken and carried to whom? – To those who have failed as old owners! That was the BayernLB, but that was also the Graz mutual. One has to look at what the rulers – these are usually gentlemen there – have listed. We have prepared all this in the urgent request. What has the Graz side-by-side contribution been made so far? At the time of the so-called emergency nationalization, it had 20 percent capital ownership. Where's her contribution? – Nowhere, I don’t see him, much too little! Instead, the Grazer Geldsdel will walk completely unlit in the pedestrian zone and make the peacock! – You should take away a few feathers in the interest of taxpayers. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jannach.]] On the other hand, what about the great believers? Are they serious? Are they fair? Were they good-believers? And now we're at the heart of the thing. Mr Lopatka, one of the most culprits in this Chamber: When it comes to 19 billion of liabilities at the time of this vital emergency stateization – now it is 12.5 billion – then you have to say – and that is exactly the wrong model you want to follow: In this april of 7 billion federal funds have been added. Yes, if this remains the quota – 7 billion less, and 5 billion we have to shoot in – then we will end up with at least 15 billion with your business model. That is totally irresponsible, it must be done differently! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] It is therefore not clear that the great believers and these – who is that? – Investment funds, now hedge funds, which already speculate, which now have favourable rates on the market to raise the bonds, with 80 to 90 percent of the price value, can assume that they will get back 100 percent plus interest rates. That is to say, they make a great cut because you have put the Federal Government, gentlemen, in view of paying them the full 100 percent. This is the support of speculation, the support of banks, the support of the speculators, whereby you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, all year round – with taxpayers' money by the way – advertise and document that you want to deal exactly with those who now support you with your alleged institution model – and not the taxpayers. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Representatives of the FPÖ]] That's the problem! They take 5 500 € from each family and give it to them. However, they did not deserve it because they had to know that the bank was not a serious regional bank in the years 2004 to 2007, that the bank was actually a pyramid game, liable with the liabilities of the country of Carinthia, a pyramid game that by the way worked with Mafia contacts. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] All serious investors had to know. This has been reported by the control reports. They have not only failed. The reports have existed, the actions have been neglected, but we will come back to that in the urgent question and in the debate on the Committee of Inquiry. That was the problem, ladies and gentlemen. And these people are not serious and well-belief, so the solution must be either not to pay them out or at least to make a compensation, an orderly insolvency. Who says that can't work, even if they have a legal title? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] You have to process it first, and that's what it's all about. Mrs Finanzminister, when you address the Bad Bank and say that we have also called for this – and I assume that the argument comes: Yeah, that's right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The other side of the balance sheet – yes, yes, I give you the right, but we would have needed it four years ago, because the delay has cost us 2 billion so far, but you should do it anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Of course, we have to see that on the other hand we get the loans, the real estate, the assets that are still there, but that's the other side of the balance sheet. This is why we need this double solution: get back what is to be obtained, but never give the taxpayers the money to the unreasonable! This must be prevented, which is part of the solution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And one last thing: The fact that you don't act better here may also be on your consultant's staff. The so-called task force you've defended is not fair yourself. Mr Liebscher and Nowotny have completely failed as bank governors in the supervision. There have always been critical reports, nothing has been done – and now these two gentlemen are your chief advisor. It is clear that they are interested in the fact that exactly this solution does not come because the orderly insolvency would result in judicially - or at least more strongly - the whole failure of the last 12 years being remedied. We will talk about this at the moment, and we will also present this document, which clearly shows – Mr Lopatka, because you have said that the central bank has given a great opinion: that was the scandal in 2008! –: When the first 900 million participation capital was given by our tax money to the hypo still belonging to Bayern, there was a forced opinion of the central bank, which says that it is not ill anyway. There is a mail traffic between department staff Peter Breyer and department head Johannes Turner, in which is clearly inside – I quote –: We must bear in mind that the support packages could follow examination committees or court proceedings in a few years, for example, if the bank can no longer pay. - Quote. And these people were required, probably by Minister of Finance Pröll, to exhibit this testat, to the detriment of taxpayers. And then it's right that the original sin lies in Carinthia. That's right. But who says you'll have to pick up seven more deadly sins? We will address them, this will be the subject of the next urgent procedure, and it will be the subject of the inevitable committee of inquiry. If You don’t give in, then you can get the shoulder closure – know S’ eh!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e6612	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e6634	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear citizens! Let's not make this meeting a show! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible!]] When I made the decision to go to politics, it was my goal to contribute to bringing more substance into politics. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Raiffeisen come, that may be illuminating!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that citizens are purely interested in a material process. Especially on such a sensitive subject as the Hypo Alpe-Adria, I am already a bit disappointed – as said: political culture – that is why I am not just saying, but I am now saying: especially about the opposition. Last week, a clubwoman asked that it was necessary to discuss the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria before the National Council meeting in the Financial Committee, in order to be present for himself 15 minutes – about 15 minutes – I did not stop. As a club woman threatens to apply for special meetings of the National Council until there is going to be an investigation committee – in spite of this, very defiantly in the ORF interview. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, of course!]] And an hour ago another clubwoman asked whether the work would be carried over the stage until summer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... with the club women!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] – In fact, one can only offer one basic education on economic issues. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must move away from such a level, ladies and gentlemen. After all, Werner Kogler, who has just been in office for two months, has – and this has also been acknowledged by Werner Kogler – taken a number of steps in a very short time, which have already brought much clarity to further action. [[Abg. Dr. Moser:... long due!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] After today's coherent declaration by the Heads of Government, I hope to be able to assume that instead of beating political small money, the opposition parties will find themselves here to support this state-politically necessary end of the shoulder. Dear Opposition, also use the reset button once! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Enlightenment...!]] I am particularly addressing the blue-green scandalisation alliance: Press the reset button, and let's go objectively into the future! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Enlighten first, then agree!]] Of course – and I would like to say this in my role as chairman of the Financial Committee – it is absolutely important that Parliament is fully informed. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr Pirklhuber]] We need this transparency. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Check! Take your activity seriously!]] But this has been the case since the last week. Minister of State Spindel-egger and State Secretary Danninger, in the debate in the Committee on Finance, has been speaking and answering for a very long time and has put on the table all the issues that have to be put on the table today. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr Pirklhuber]] One sees that the Ministry of Finance wants transparency and is fully involved in the opposition parties, in this case in the form of the financial spokespersons, which is also an important step when one looks at the political culture. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Enlightenment...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense, of course, the purely populist demand for a committee of inquiry is to be rejected. [[Embarrassed calls to the Greens and the Abg. Kickl.]] It will interest our citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] What has not been mentioned by you today is that many prosecutors have been working on this causa for several years and at least 30 investigators from the Ministry of the Interior are investigating criminal aspects. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Even in Chile there would be an investigation committee!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Treasure]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a right of the citizens that this is being examined!]] The past has also shown quite correctly that parallel legal investigations and clarification of political responsibility are in reality none of these two purposes. [[Abg. Brosz:... political responsibility!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What was your boss Josef Pröll extortionable with? Who did Josef Pröll...?]] Much worse: The resources of the investigators were in parallel burdened by both things, the work became complicated, and the processing took even longer. Of course, this is not in our interest. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: The Vorarlberg Head of State...!]] One lesson from the Committees of Inquiry is of course that documents find their way into the editorial offices very quickly. [[Ruf:The Black Head of State also wants an investigative committee]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Dr Pirklhuber.]] I believe, as I have said, that the economic understanding here is presupposed, that it will be understandable, of course, that this is not favourable for the asset that this bank still means to the Republic today. Ladies and gentlemen! The criminal activities in Carinthia under the leadership of freedom and freedom of speech must, of course, be mercilessly prepared by the judicial authorities, and the ÖVP stands for this merciless investigation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann]] [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Podgorschek.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Of course, all criminal acts are discreetly clarified. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Köchl.]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Discuss these accusations!]] However, we will not, of course, offer and allow a polite platform for self-proclaimed political deputies here, because this is a way of full information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Kickl, Gartelgruber and Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Just show, ladies and gentlemen? – No, thank you! [[Call: You block...]] We have full confidence in justice and the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you please show “Raiffeisen”?! You should get the gable cross...!]] [[Subsequent calls to FPÖ and greens.]] Since the red light is already flashing, I can offer you to communicate some of the content in the series also bilaterally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I think it is very important in the future to work out the assets with a cool head to keep costs as low as possible for citizens, of course for all those involved to keep costs as low as possible. [[Abg. May. Honey: And the Raiffeisen!]] [[Call the FPÖ: For four years now!]] Minister of Finance Spindelegger has shown real leadership in this difficult situation in recent weeks. In my capacity as chairman of the Financial Committee, of course, I can also assure you that, as a control body, we will take care to ensure that the taxpayers – which I hope will be yours – will receive the most gentle solution and that the most gentle solution will also be implemented. In this sense, I think we should make such statements as that any vulture... I do not repeat this now, because such statements can, of course, harm us as a state much more than the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria. Let's hide the vultures again. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Let's investigate! ... Examining committee will clarify this!]] We will work together constructively on the solution, ladies and gentlemen. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7043	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7064	Mr President. High house! It was spoken of today as a matter of fact. I will now try to bring some light into the matter from my point of view, as the government is not ready to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Since today there are probably some taxpayers in the hall and at home, there is certainly a vital interest to learn how things are going on here and, above all, what the backgrounds that have ultimately brought us into this precarious situation. Today we have heard many times, especially from the government, that ultimately the country's liability was the problem. All that has happened has happened because there have been national arrests. Now we're always just talking about the country's arrests of the Carinthians. Did you know that the countries currently hold 40 billion, not just for their banks, for everything possible? Vorarlberg, for example, such a small federal country, is liable with 4 billion for the Hypo Vorarlberg, or also Lower Austria: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] 7 billion; Vienna is liable with 15 billion. The question is why the countries are doing this. Why are the countries liable for their banks? We know that whenever bonds are issued, investors are not too excited if the bank sometimes does things that are not so safe and who are not. The country gives guarantees that these bonds are most favourable to the owner, and the people with the liabilities of the countries in their backs have a good feeling and draw these bonds, and with these bonds is then arranged. If you don't believe this, just look at the current prospectus of the Hypo Lower Austria. That's exactly what's being advertised. A long litany, including the risks, is listed, and then it's down below: In the event of damage, the taxpayer is liable in Lower Austria. That's happening right now. The same thing happened in Carinthia. In Carinthia, you've also been arrested and promised to the investor so to speak, in the worst case, it's going well. The investors were insecure. There are now other hypos that are stable that do not speculate. The Carinthians did it. They took this money, speculated, and all those who no longer wanted to draw these bonds, because they were afraid that this could be the case, they calmed down with the liabilities – and then they speculated on devils coming out. There have also been profits made, you forget that again and again. The hypo has grown rapidly and has also gained profits, and of course these profits have been distributed among those who have been responsible for this. Now comes the BayernLB. Many say: So the BayernLB must have been a little stupid, she didn't understand it, it's a little rude! Anyone who has seen the contract concluded by the BayernLB with the Austrian Federal Government knows that it is a lot smarter than we are, a lot smarter. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Not us! Don't generalize!]] She also knew what she was getting into. Do you know why? Do you know why the Bavaria even bought this hypo? – They wanted to buy the BAWAG before, also a bank that shone with stability. [[Abg. Kickl: The first ones wanted them too! Treichl..........................................................................................]] But they didn't manage to buy the BAWAG. And then the hypo came, a speculation bank, you knew. Since 1998, the National Bank, the Supervisory Board, has all said: This is a speculation bank playing in the financial casino! That's what the Bavaria knew. And the Bavaria didn't buy them anyway, they just bought them for that. The Bavarians therefore bought the hypo because they were not allowed to play in this financial casino, which ran until 2008. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Did you say that in the FPÖ Board of Directors at the time?]] They were not allowed to be there, they looked very jealously at the banks who did that, who played at the financial casino and also deserved it properly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And the Bavaria wanted to buy the hypo because it speculated. And they bought it. And what did they do after that? – You have blown up all these speculative shops once again. They wanted to be there. – This also worked well until 2008. And then something happened, which no one could explain; even with the other banks, no one could explain it: You can also make losses – an insanity! It was then very pleasant that the governments in Europe and around the world had proposed something that they then used: If there are profits, they are few in the bag, and if there are losses, they are hung around the taxpayer. – That’s exactly what the background was: The Bayern wanted to get rid of their financial casino again. And then who was in the drawing? - We! Then the bank has been deprived of 2 billion of capital, it has run down, it has led just before the pleite, and then one has gone to the Austrians and has said: Dear friends, you have to take this back! Why did we do that? Why did we take this back? It means there are these liabilities, the Carinthian liabilities. But, as we have already heard from Mr Kickl today, the liabilities were finally third-ranking at the moment the Bavaria possessed the bank. That means that the Bavarians would have come first, then the Bavarian taxpayers would have come, then the owners of the bonds would have come, and at the end of the day the liabilities would have been beating. What did we do? . We have re-pressed these liabilities prominently, so that in the end everything the taxpayer has to vote. [[Abg. Kickl: That's the big bang!]] That's exactly the problem, and now it always says: We had to do this because the financial markets had a problem with it! – Yes, it is true that the financial markets have a problem. There is still a golden rule, and we would have violated this golden rule. This golden rule is [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Whoever has the money creates!]] When profits flow, few cash, and losses are distributed to the general public – in that case to taxpayers. That's the golden rule, and we would've hurt it. [[Call the ÖVP:Frank!]] And we would continue to hurt them if the bank were to go bankrupt, because then those who caused that would pay, and that is not what we want. Mr Faymann said today: We want the cheapest solution! – The Federal Chancellor Faymann – Excuse me! – who should represent the Austrians in and for himself said today: [[Abg. Auer: Still the Federal Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's good if you say it, because you wouldn't believe it otherwise!]] We want the cheapest solution! – But the question is not whether we want the cheapest solution or not. The question is: For whom is the most appropriate solution? The cheapest solution for Bavaria? - Yes, for the Bavaria! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who gets what?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Exactly!]] Or for the mortgage banks and their bond of liability; or for the raiffeisen, which also hangs in it? For whom, for God's sake, do we want the most appropriate solution? The taxpayer does not play a role here, because in the event of doubt, and we have seen that in the past, the taxpayer always pays. Also this 4-billion package, which you supposedly divert the banks here to deliver it to the mortgage: Who pays that? – That's what customers pay for. These are also the people outside, the taxes pay on the one hand and then on the other, for the account management and for everything else to be asked to cash out, because these 4 billions are just going in there. – That means the damage is there. It won't be better! Many say we have to minimize the damage. - The damage is done. The question now is not how we can make the damage smaller – you have only claimed four years. That doesn't work, and you can ask any experts you want. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well! That's right!]] The damage has been done at the moment when lazy loans have been granted. There was the damage. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] The question we have to ask ourselves is one: Who, for God's sake, is to pay for this damage? - That's the question. And I say that if we make an empowerment law here, which you want, Federal Chancellor and Minister of Finance, a empowerment law with an institution solution, then the damage is paid to a hundred percent of the citizens and taxpayers, and we are not at our disposal for that. [[Abg. New builder:... Authorization Act?- Oh, my God!]] We want the damage to come where it belongs, namely to those who deserved well in the years before 2008. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] This is also finally appropriate internationally. We must finally stop the fact that in good times few people get healthy and in bad times always pay those who anyway do not know how to get through with their money, namely the citizens out there! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] That's why it's going, and that's exactly the point. That is why we will never agree to this establishment solution – never! The owners who have earned must bleed, and not the taxpayer! If you are a good finance minister – I hope he listens – and are a good German chancellor, then you must have in mind the interests of the Austrians and not the interests of your Bavarian friends and not those of those who deserved to be firm in the good years. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: He's not here at all! Get out of here again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] It must not ultimately be imposed on the taxpayer! That's the point. [[Calls and calls between representatives of the FPÖ and Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Finally, like a lion, we will fight for it, and I hope that the citizens will also be involved in preventing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7339	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7360	Mr President. Estimated government members! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! I am glad, Federal Chancellor, that you are taking a seat here on the government bank, because it reminds me that you are still Chancellors of this Republic. You could have forgotten that in recent months. In the last few months, when we had the discussions about the hypo, you have completely dived: no interviews, no explanations, no pro-active action, nothing. [[Abg. Neubauer: In Sochi he was already!]] [[Call at the ÖVP: This is polemic!]] It seems as if it would be your strategy to hide behind the ÖVP finance ministers and act as if you had nothing to do with the matter. Mr Bundeskanzler, hiding behind the Minister of Finance Spindelegger is too little; it has nothing to do with leadership. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let's do a fact check! You have reported to us on the current state of hypo, let us take a look at the facts: The main objective of your action was the sovereign debt ratio. This is not a secret that the Minister of Finance has repeated in the Financial Committee last week, and the main objective is the debt ratio. I'm just wondering why. Should it not be the main objective to keep the banking system stable? Should it not be the main objective of participating in the risk to those investors who have invested in risk papers? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] Should it not be the main objective to protect taxpayers? Instead, you deal with accounting tricks to keep the government debt ratio artificially low. And precisely because of keeping this sovereign debt ratio artificially low, you have favored this investment solution. This has been your concern for months, with the participation of large banks – and that, although you had to know that the big banks could not participate in it at all, neither can any private company participate in the losses of another company, because the directors of these companies would be sued immediately by the shareholders who would sit on the dock immediately; and the prosecutor would also immediately become active. But why did you do it anyway? – To find some scapegoat! It is very easy at the moment to turn the debt off to the banks that have legitimately refused. But you said the banks don't join us, and that's why the taxpayer has to jump in, now the taxpayer comes in. – But the truth is, in the case of an institution solution, regardless of whether the banks participate in it or not, the bill ends up with the taxpayer. You should have put that on the table, that would have been fair! Since today I heard from Mr Krainer from the SPÖs that the banks would already pay now, in the form of the bank tax: Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the bank tax is not paid by the banks! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Some of it!]] It will be passed on one too one to the bank customers. Bank customers, that is, taxpayers, are already paying for the banks. This is the new mass tax. So they spent months dealing with a model that was pointless from the outset. However, I already know Your answer: That was what the experts have advised you to propose – the experts who sit in the hypo task force. Then I would suggest that we take a look at the hypo-task force, because the question I ask is: Who's in there? According to media reports, there should be representatives of financial market supervision, the central bank, the FIMBAG, but nobody really knows that. Are these really just officials sitting in there? Are they external experts? Is there any people inside who have personal interests? Why does no one know which experts the government is relying on in this matter? Why doesn't anyone know who's responsible? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: All the others know! Only you don't know!]] – After that, announce it! We “all others” do not know, but “all others” are also the citizens of this country. [[As a result of the vote on the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the ……]] Why does anyone know who is responsible for transferring all these charges to taxpayers? Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we insist on this transparency, we will not let go of it! We are happy to be ready for a national epaulment – we say quite openly – but only on condition that all the facts are on the table, only on the condition that the existing options are discussed openly and honestly and that a courageous decision is ultimately made, which is also in the interest of our taxpayers. Well, there's no meeting on hypo where we don't also bring a gift for you, for the High House. The last time it was the closed Wyman report, this time it is a 2009 National Bank opinion, more precisely from November 2009, that is, just before the emergency nationalization. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] My colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger will say more about this, but I would like to make one point. There's something very interesting in there. It says, I quote: At the time of completion of the current investigation, the liquidity equipment of the Hypo Alpe-Adria may be considered to be sufficiently qualified. - Quote. [[Hö-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] And a month later, the bank has to be declared necessary! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: How can this happen?]] And this National Bank under Governor Novotny is now sitting in the Hypo Task Force on front and explaining what to do. Why are there no consequences from this regulatory failure? – On the contrary: This hypo-task force under the central leadership of the National Bank, under Governor Novotny, is interfering in the front. And now you're wondering, Why do you still trust in these consultants? Why Trust You're recommending these consultants? Why don't you rely on the recommendations of international experts who also say something else? There are a lot of questions open up. There's a lot of intrude. And without transparency, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor, there will be no shoulder closure. And as long as this federal government does not ensure transparency, we will do NEOS. Today we have again made a contribution with this opinion by the National Bank immediately before the emergency nationalization. It'll be a long time for us to do this. With this publication we have once again produced a piece of transparency, and this is urgently necessary in the interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7486	Mr Podgorschek is now on the floor. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7507	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! I'll give you the right if you say we're in high demand. But Mr Spindelegger, too, has rightly said that it is not the time for polemics. But what I've heard in the last few hours was anything other than that there's a will to reconnaissance or that hasn't been polemized. Yes, there was a gold grave mentality in the nineties and two thousand years – in Carinthia, in Vienna, no matter where. Everyone wanted the train to the southeast, east did not fail and jumped up. Many mistakes have certainly been made in Carinthia, but I say it quite clearly: of everyone and anyone who has been responsible in politics! But what's apparently now is that the fire that was created has been mistakenly removed and caused more damage to the waste water than the fire at that time, considering that you have taken everything back from Bavaria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And it is crucial for us that we now avoid damage from the Republic and from the taxpayer, and therefore mutual accusations are only counterproductive. Much is still unexplained, and it is currently irrelevant whether there is an institution solution or an insolvency. It is crucial that we involve the creditors. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The editor of the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” Matthew Kattinger was quite right: We need a second reconnaissance. We After the first we must not be freed from the nobility and all-power of the Church, but we must free ourselves from the parties, from the felt, from the chambers and from the sovereign princes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7586	The request is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and therefore supports the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7653	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Arbitrator. The remaining speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7674	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in plenary! Since it was obviously one of the main themes of the green club woman when the SPÖ Klubobmann spoke, I thought of the following: First of all, such a debate deserves appreciation from the beginning to the end, so that once you want to do so, you will be involved in the debate as a clubman. Unfortunately, by the end of the debate, the ranks are getting thinner and thinner. This is an unkind here in Parliament, which I personally do not like, but... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Sorry, I'm here!]] - You're here, that's beautiful, but many others aren't. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: At the ÖVP... empty! Where's the ÖVP?]] Secondly, I also thought that we were waiting for a debate because today we are discussing the different solutions of the hypo-debakel. And there's not bad to have a number of speakers that light up the different variants. Unfortunately, we had to see that today it was mainly about polemics, slander and scandalization. What's been said? “Anstalt” would have gotten a new dimension, you all belong to an institution. Mr Kickl even said to me: They belong to parapsychologists! [[Abg. Kickl: I said if you believe this, you're a case for the parapsychologist!]] I mean, these are all the approaches that are scandalous and therefore scandalous, because actually the spectators sit at home and say: What is the solution now? And then Mr. Kickl comes and insults everyone from the front to the back and says that all belong to an insanity. That's unheard of! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: “Irrenanstalt” you said! I put great value on that! That's what you said now!]] But that's how you said it. – What did you say to the parapsychiat? What did you say to the parapsychiat? – Yes, I don't know which one of you has appearances? [[Abg. Kickl: If you have symptoms, you need a parapsychologist!]] [[Abg. Kickl: After you apparently!]] - Well, that's the level! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The second thing we hear is the following: The clubman strache goes out here and says the crime was the nationalization. What kind of crazy stuff is that? [[Call the FPÖ: This has just been said!]] The crime was to use this bank by the FPÖ in Carinthia, where Mr. Strache was also in charge of the party and Mr. Lugar, who is now in the Stronach team, and where all agreed that 25 billion of the liabilities were assumed. [[Abg. Not in Carinthia!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... don't know younger party history either!]] That's the real crime on the taxpayer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That is the question of who bears the responsibility. And I think, even without a great excitement and acting with calls, you can say in peace: The responsibility for the hypo disaster lies with Jörg Haider and the FPÖ – from then until today. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek:... can repeat that 20 years!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Since 2008...!]] And the second question we should have discussed today is: What to do? What's to do now? And there's the big headline, Mr. Darmann: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] Take responsibility. [[Abg. May. Darmann: You should have taken over earlier!]] Even if you do not have the responsibility for what has happened, you have the responsibility to solve it now, even if it is unpleasant. This is the discussion that we should have had: How, then, can we call the creditors of the bonds to account? Not always say: You have to!, we need to discuss: How's it going? How can we do that? Are you all right? These are the interesting questions. The experts have now established a variety of possibilities in the task force with consultants. And unfortunately, you can't break anything over your knees now and say: We go the way!, but we have to consider a lot of details here: the creditors, the hypo and the Bayerische Landesbank's role and the possibility of complaint, the question of liability fees, the questions, how does the portfolio of this bank look out, what do I do with the real estate, what do I do with the other things, so many questions of detail. – These are the questions that need to be clarified now. [[Abg. Kickl: Since the beginning!]] The variants have been examined, and a Bad Bank also means that we are now going to work out the laws first, if any, but secondly also the toxic portfolio. Here we hear, it's not about 19 billion, it's about 5 to 7 billion that come to us. And even this sum, you have to say quite honestly, without scandalizing that, is of course a big chunks. However, it must also be said that 640 million annual revenue from the bank levy is compared to that. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But 5 billion are already gone!]] And when I see this in relation, I also see: It will succeed in reducing the burden on taxpayers over the next ten years, because the costs can also be financed by the financial sector. A question that we could have discussed today – it is a pity that it all went down this way – is: How can we finally get European banking supervision to that extent? Because it is the real answer to the question: Who is the supervision of a bank that is in Bavarian possession, sitting in Carinthia and doing business in the Balkans? How can we establish a reasonable supervision that can take full advantage of it? [[Abg. May. Kogler: At least you don't have to buy the Krempel back!]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. May. Kogler) That's it!]] And the answer to that is, of course: European Banking Supervisory Board. And the final question, which is crucial, is: How can we prevent it from being the taxpayer who carries this burden, but the sector itself? – And to that is the answer: Bank levy. Because by introducing the bank levy, there is a stability and insurance premium that the Austrian financial sector has to pay because it has also benefited from the fact that the mortgage has not been argued. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is a complete misunderstanding!]] This is responsible policy, which you can perhaps also discuss here in the house, without constantly scandalizing everything and sending people to the psychiatrist. [[Abg. Kickl: Psychologists! Psychologists!]] That would have been nice for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e7983	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann to speak. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8004	Mr President. High house! If Mr Lopatka turns out here and says that the Greens had agreed to the increase in liability in 2004 – by the way, he is not sitting there at all; ah, there he sits; well listen! Then it's simple and just wrong. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (on p. Dr. Lopatka pointing, next to Abg. Dr. Fekter, he's sitting with the right person.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In 1990, the Landeshalting Act was adopted with the votes of the ÖVP and with the votes of the FPÖ. In 2004 a provision was implemented, a decision with the European Commission that the expiry of the liabilities should be decided by 2017. And in this improvement, we were there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was the decision!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] However, as from 2004, we did not agree to any extension of the liability shown in the accounts from 2004 onwards. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: But then you agreed!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Please take note, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, before you throw on the greens with dirt, yes, before you throw dirt on the greens and accuse others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: You agreed!]] Mr Klubobmann Schieder, if you stand out here and say: We want to discuss solutions!, the question arises: Yes, what do you have? You made it for four years? Have you slept for four years? Why, then, did you not draw up any solutions in the sense of taxpayers? [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: We also have!]] – There is nothing you have done in the interests of taxpayers, namely to tax the taxpayers as little as possible. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: (pointing at the red flashing lamp at the speaker's desk) Your time is already over!]] We have heard this over and over again in recent years, but it is simple and simply nothing, nothing at all, not until today. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: You haven't said anything about the problem at all!]] If we seek a solution, this can only be a solution in the sense of taxpayers, including creditors and old-age owners. For one thing cannot be: that the creditors, at the time knowing that there are the liability, have granted loans, bought bonds, and are now declared by the government: Yes, we will make an institution solution, which gives them the guarantee that everything will be repaid one by one. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] That doesn't mean it's a taxpayer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Make a solution in the sense of the taxpayer! Make a solution that reads: Let us involve creditors and old owners in a solution to this hypo scandal, the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8187	Mrs. Dr.ck has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8209	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! When you traveled to Carinthia at the time from the head of state Jörg Haider – and many colleagues and ex-colleagues of the FPÖ, which you have seen medially, were always present at these events – you were welcomed with the poster: Carinthia is crazy. Yes, in fact: Carinthia was and is an insanity, thanks to Jörg Haider, who dominated everything at the time, and to his team of freedom, we are all crazy. Investments with no sustainability were taken on a huge scale and huge liabilities were taken over by Jörg Haider at a national budget of €2 billion. [[Abg. Neubauer: But that must also be a call for order!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You haven't understood anything yet, and that after a few hours!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] To this liberal banking disaster, the biggest financial and economic crisis in the Second Republic in 2008/2009 was the accident which we have imported precisely thanks to this greed-freest-brain-brain-meal of America. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who wrote the speech to you?]] [[==References====External links== Dipl.-Ing. Deimek]] – Yes, Mr Kogler, obviously some have already forgotten this, or they have not felt in their protected area how the situation was with us in the real economy in 2009. Within two to three weeks, orders fell by 30 to 50 percent in the companies. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And that's why we're now paying 15 billion for the hypo?- Oh, my God!]] We have been able to maintain a high level of employment thanks to the Federal Government's immediate labour policy measures. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But not because of the hypo scandal!]] The workers have, to a large extent, felt nothing of it and did not know how dramatic the situation was in our businesses at that time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] And the entrepreneurs could not carry outside for corporate reputations what fears they have of not being able to pay the wages any more, to have to release employees and not to be able to repay loans and interest, because we had invested heavily before the crisis. And if only one bank had been handcuffed at this stage and the real economy could no longer have been operated in the future, this would have triggered an infinite domino effect on the company's bankruptcys. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Did you have a hotel in Croatia? What are you talking about?]] This would also have put all of our work policies into the sand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Thus, in this phase of Chancellor Faymann, in agreement with FMA chief Ettl, with OeNB chief Novotny and the government team, it was a right and important decision to state the hypo. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the event of a bankruptcy, we would have had an additional huge cost for the renovation of the economic location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And when, please, is the right time to settle a bank? – Is it 2010, 2011, 2012, where we were still in the crisis? [[Abg. Kickl: Good to know that we are no longer in the crisis!]] The whole experts you mentioned to us could not even predict the crisis, but afterwards these rulers are always smarter and smarter. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but that the hypo was a Gauner bank, you already knew a lot earlier!]] Surprisingly, waiting was correct and important, because we were able to reduce national bonds at that time and lower the overall balance sheet amount and thus reduce the damage amount. Thank you to Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter for not allowing herself to be pulled over the table by her partners in the EU, but for preserving peace, fighting and thus minimizing the losses for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And it has already set up this team of experts in March 2013, which is now preparing the resolution proposals we are examining without any taboos. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: They don't find any attention!]] Yes, this FPÖ system Haider has done a lot of damage to our country due to the criminal energy released in this environment. [[Abg. New builder: Where are we?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And now the courts are required. There are already over 100 accused, there are four prosecutors and 27 experts in use. [[Abg. Kickl: And a black convict! Two Black Convicts, Deep Black]] Please let the courts work because these are responsible for criminals, are competent and independent! And don't ask for double-liability again, so that Mr. Pilz and Co medial will have more appearances again! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Here you go!]] I suggest: If we pool the resources, we put the power in the process! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Our Minister of Finance has the courage and discretion to address this issue and to find the best solution for all of us, for the economic location and taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] “Consisting and addressing!” is the successfully lived motto in Upper Austria, and I also expect that from the opposition, especially from the FPÖ, which caused this chaos.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8463	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8501	God, Mr President! Greetings to God, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government! High house! While we are here exercising our right to indignation, the State Bank is being plundered in a large way. While Rome advises, Sagunt is lost. What really is the establishment solution? – The secret Wyman opinion – nothing is public in Austria as a secret opinion – holds the consequences in a clear sentence. I quote: “The institution solution leads to the direct and formally valid concentration of the actual risks and liabilities in the public sector.” In other words: If you choose the establishment solution, you make the same mistake that the country of Carinthia has made with the acceptance of liability: You take over the bank's liability as a whole. Insolvency: Why does the government shut down with unusual vehemence against this solution and go to diving station? This seems to be due to the problems of the new style of government. The head of government is already at diving station when the half-city of hatred is propagated and slices are broken. There's nothing to hear from the head of state. And the head of government doesn't ask any more questions about the journalists and sends forward so-called Minister for the mirror. [[Call: That's right.]] Let's not think that insolvency would have unforeseen consequences! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as the congratulation and bravoruf of representatives of the FPÖ.]] That sounds like the government is being blackmailed. – That’s where I ask: Who threatens the government with unforeseen consequences? Who's doing that? If that is the case, then the government must consider something, but don't tell us that there are no alternatives to the expensive settlement or that insolvency would not be an alternative. In my opinion, the establishment solution is a mistake, and in this context I would like to quote from a speech by Winston Churchill in 1932 in the British House of Commons: No country is so vulnerable and no country promises a looter as rich profit as ours. The country is a kind of huge, fat, valuable cow tied to a pole to attract the predator. - Quote. To stay with this picture, I say: If you want the settlement, connect Austria to the pole to attract the predators. I assume that every member of the government knows the Wyman opinion; at least every member of the government now knows the sentence I read before. Everyone must therefore know that, after this opinion commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, insolvency is the cheapest solution and the solution of the institution is the much more expensive solution. Therefore, those who agree to the establishment solution actually – after this opinion – act to the detriment of the Republic. You have to imagine the example effects if you want to take a large sum in order to save a federal country from bankruptcy. Now, if you take a lot of money into your hands to do that, what do you do with the next federal state? You can hardly say that you can't save it. Do you know what that means? – In my world, it is a concealment of foreign money when this is decided. It comes once the year 2018, and sometime the election of this government comes, and then there are still the articles 142 and 143 of the federal constitution, and sometime there can be a personal liability if you decide against the Wyman opinion and the expensive variant. I ask you: Get away from it! Sagunt is still not lost to return to the entrance statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8550	As the last speaker on this point, Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger. Time left: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8571	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Minister of Finance is not here now. Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens' values! Yes, while we are at last discussing this issue – and this is very, very important and urgent – the people out there know who are now doing their work: They will pay it; they will have to sheet for it. And – you feel it – they simply have no confidence in this federal government and in the solution competence of this federal government, and this is actually, in addition to the budgetary disaster, the second essential disaster of this entire hypo scandal, namely that the whole democracy in Austria will suffer. We have heard a lot in the speeches, including in newspaper reports over the past few weeks, which shows at least a very strong diletantism on the part of those acting in the Federal Government. There is, on the one hand, the former Minister of Finance Fekter, who has done nothing for four years, but there is also the current Minister of Finance, the... – No, that's not a cowardice! [[Call to the ÖVP: That's huge!]] [[Abg. That's a naughtiness!]] You can also read this in an opinion that the delaying of the decision is in relation to the settlement to the damage of taxpayers. [[Congratulation with NEOS, Greens and FPÖ.]] It's not a joke, it's the truth! There are now reports on this, and there are also experts who say that. But, and this is certainly an essential point, it will be discussed in a committee of inquiry. Second point: It is probably also dilettantism of this federal government, because when I read that the head of statistics Australia says that he warned already in autumn of the European regulations, i.e. the rules of Eurostat regarding the solution of participation, and nothing happened, one did not go to the banks, then it is no wonder that this model of participation has failed, and this testifies to dilettantism. And it's no wonder there's no confidence in this government. What do you have to do now? You need to restore confidence. In my opinion, this is only possible by saying: Yeah, we're making an investigation committee. Let us take it – and I am very much with Mr Kogler, who says, we will now take it in quiet water – from autumn onwards, but today make a confession, that is urgently necessary! Mr Zakostelsky, it is not a question of legal responsibility – it must be examined – it is a matter of political responsibility. They're going to throw each other's dirt, absolutely right, but you have to say, it's all a stinking mess. [[Abg. Gahr: Super! What kind of expression is that? Shame!]] The cart has to be pulled out of the dirt now, but you also have to light this dirt sometime. [[Call the ÖVP: Dirty, dirt, dirt!]] This concerns the FPÖ and the BZÖ system, which very much affects the responsibility of ÖVP and SPÖ in Carinthia, which concerns the failure of supervision – Mr Hable has quoted from the National Bank's report – the failure of the FMA, which concerns the non-negotiation of the Minister of Finance and that now concerns the intrusive conduct of the government. You want an shoulder clasp. That would be the second way. We as NEOS are ready – we have always been ready to do so and have said so – to a shoulder closure, but then we need the information. Then you have to call a round table. I think it is good that there was a financial committee where a debate took place, but that is too little. It needs a round table where all the facts come to the table: Wyman report, final report of the Task Force, all the other opinions you may or may not have commissioned. You read different: On the one hand, I hear that experts have been ordered again in respect of the insolvency solution, on the other hand, this will be disputed again. So what now? Put this on the table! Only then can you really expect the opposition to cooperate constructively, because of course there is a need for an shoulder closure here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] One important point is that we must take this crisis to heart, and the NZZ has clearly said that – Klubobmann Strolz has mentioned it – to think about this felt, to think about this interconnecting of politics and economy in Austria, this interdependence of executive and control. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to tell you something. You have said in your input statement that there is a need for a follow-up to the rules. [[Call:]] In fact, I think the problem in Austria is that there is too much interdependence and too much influence on policy in the banks, in the economic sectors, because there is the question: Why can it even be that a bank can assume such hypertrophic dimensions? - But not because of a lack of regulation, but only because of a lack of political responsibility. Of course, this also has to do with the fact that federalism in Austria has to be completely re-established. It cannot be said that the money will be withdrawn from the federal government, issued by the countries and that it will obviously be given no risk of liability. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8681	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8748	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Maybe you can read through the application as well?- Oh, my God!]] He is not the first to vote, Mr Kogler. But if you want, I can interrupt the session briefly. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Good. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, colleagues, on the eradication of mortgage bonds at the actual purchase price. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen on the convening of a federalism convention. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[11:32:12]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Werner Kogler, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on the protection of taxpayers from the total failure of the Federal Government (639/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e8811	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 639/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e9485	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Kogler as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e9508	Mr President. Yes, the agenda is exhausted – we haven't yet! That will also be necessary. We still have a lot to do. On the one hand, I would like to stress that the investigation work is, of course, necessary, but should not hinder the rescue measures that are now needed. I know that's always your argument and that's very dangerous. Nevertheless, following this debate, we will have the debate on the Committee of Inquiry. I expressly stress, once again, that a close-up or a cooperation can only be expected if you are wandering around in time and time, even though you are still here today and are rejecting the opposition’s requests to the committee of inquiry, so that such a close-up can only be expected if we have here by a majority – for you have still prevented minority law from setting up a committee of inquiry, although you have signed everything, but there you are also verbally achieved. There will be no cooperation in intensive form before. Why? – Citizens have a right to know where at the end at least €10 billion, but probably €15 billion, have stayed! Or now we're just taking the wacky 13 billion. Citizens have the right to know how this has happened, who is responsible, also politically, and what is done to prevent this from happening in the future. This can only be done if it is well prepared. This is always the same: clarify and then try an ethical restart! It is so annoyed that we have to try this again and again after Telekom and Eurofighter. I wouldn't have thought that was possible. It will also be necessary for your majority, if examination committees are enforced, not to stifle the investigations whenever they reach the peak. So happens to the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, when it was clear that lubricating money payments have been paid, only the recipients could not be identified! Not quite yet, but that's still to come. This is the case with the Telekom Investigation Committee, when we came up with the fact that it was also about party donations, about illegal black money accounts systems, about lubricating cash accounts systems, which were used to direct money from Raiffeisen to the ÖVP. This will have a connection with today's issue here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Or – and this is the central point, we will come back to it, I will now explain everything in history and make the references to the present – that the Banking Investigation Committee was finally turned off in June 2007, was strangled by red and black when we were investigating the hypo scandal, if he was already comprehensible there! And it was a lot comprehensible thanks to our work, despite your blackened records. You dared to rethink the committee. The reason, by the way, was of course also raiffeisen, not only the hypo, but also the money laundering. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These three points were it, and you can read that in the protocols. You can't discuss that anymore! That is why the entire credibility of this Parliament's just-yet-majority is at stake, and that is mainly red and black. There's nothing to do if you keep showing up to Carinthia, to former head of state, Haider, and so on and so on. But we will still agree on where the respective responsibilities are located. That is the first condition, Mr Lopatka! This is familiar to you: Confession, penance, improvement – this is the prerequisite for everything! [[Rejoicing in Greens and FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and NEOS.]] It's about this moral restart. We will repeatedly challenge him, and we will not let go of it, just as Rolf Holub in Carinthia, whom you, Mr Lopatka, in your hypocrisy – and you can already prepare your call for order – have again defiled in your hypocrisy, even though the Greens in Carinthia have never been there, always clarified everything, against your majority and against the will of the public prosecutor! [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Wrong!]] Three calls we had to take, and at the fourth time, the corruption prosecutor's office in Vienna, which we have also enforced, has succeeded against your original resistance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This has been our legal system, you have to answer. If the Greens then agree that this inadequacy of liability in EU conformity finally ceases and matures, then it is probably reasonable. And you turn it around again, but that's the policy of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: No, don't turn around!]] You're surrounded by people like that, Mr. Spindelegger? - We'll come back to that. That's finally to stop! Belief is different. This credibility will have to be regained, if there is any chance at all, otherwise they will not yield anything to all your solution efforts, efforts which I grant you, Mr Spindelegger! We met. It looks much better than everything that has been so far. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] But this is not the way in which your series avoids clarifications and ultimately therefore reasonable solutions are torpeded. By the way, this does not change at all the fact that you are surrounded by the completely wrong advisors – if there was a previous talk of gambling, I would like to say almost: wrong-playing consultants. We'll work it all up now. That is why it is true that this head of government has not only had responsibility for four years, but also now. I will now explain to you in a row how these entire historical processes are involved in the present, which on the one hand makes the investigations necessary, but on the other hand also affects the solutions or, so far, non-solutions. Let's start in Carinthia. Well, art, of course it was so – who always found the hardest words for it? –: Of course that wasn't a serious regional bank! It was soon like that, clearly. There's no one to clean up. Read in the urgent, what we have always said about it: clearly a soccer house and not a regional bank! This was clearly a bank, which – now I only stay with the expenditure side of the balance sheet – has been dealing with the windiest business models in the Balkans, which have joined the Balkans Mafia, and today the taxpayers have cleared away the billions below the back, where on the other hand there are no projects. That's almost a lucky case, if we find out now: There have been 120 yachts purchased, and a few of us will get back. There are also shops where nothing has happened at all. Hundreds of millions have been removed, nothing has been invested, and right over there to Mafia. It's all up to date. But you have been watching, and, of course, the control failures are becoming more urgent. You have to make it clear. That was the business model in Carinthia! Nobody's supposed to say he didn't know! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A pyramid game – why that again? – Now is more time, now I can explain it to you. Now the country's arrests are coming into play. How did this bank get money? – But not because of a serious expansion process! Not because the central bank in Europe or because the central bank in Austria meant: Great, they're doing great, they're worth protecting, we're supporting! – Not at all! That was the reason for these insane country arrests. It is indeed a mistake, because the pyramid game was then organized in such a way that the shops where the money was issued here in the way I described it – and that was not all for a long time – were taken up by bonds on this side. Of course, the bonders have weathered the chance when the country of Carinthia places the liability here, and have wagered that Carinthia pays back. But that was at one point – and you said it yourself, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, and now we will count together again – where it was: 24 billion at the highest level, that was more than the twelvefold of the national budget. That's absurd! They are never good-believers, they are insidious, these bondsigners, economically unreasonable; there is nothing else matching. – That must be a reason for us to stay there without harm before you get involved with the taxpayer! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] This is the basic principle of the market economy. They can't go here, those who have a lot of money, the funds, the investment funds, the speculators right now, that they can take money into their hands and rely on it because here they either planless, overshadowed, or I don't know what kind of government leaders who are still making the promise that the Austrian taxpayer is liable for this financial crime for all this wahnwitz. It's inconceivable! That is why I am in favour of at least a partial insolvency: because these people are not worthy of protection because this pyramid game should have looked through every mediocre gift. It then comes to the fact that control – that is ambivalent – has not completely failed. There have been critical reports. We will still have a lot of time in the Committee of Inquiry, which we have already had in the Banking Committee, but you then turned it off. But it is rather the question why then nothing happened. That means, of course, the investors could have known how it is going about. The question is, why has the supervision not acted anyway? That was, of course, the blue-black government system of Schüssel/Grasser, which was very high on the gallery, but has not equipped any instruments. Exactly in this swamp, including the supervisory failure, all of this could happen by 2006/2007. So, what happened? Who's not safe in there yet? – They then went on to sell the whole thing to Bayern. I don't understand them until today, but that's where it's going differently. That is where the committees of inquiry are fully involved. The people now stand in court differently, because they say: What the hell did you guys buy in there? – That’s the phrase you still have nationally with any absurd arguments! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and FPÖ.]] This sales process has a lot to do with it. And now again the wonderful Graz mutuals come into play. They will therefore need a large bank in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Heissen eh “Wechseldede”!]] Yes, it's called "mutual" – they change too much! They change too much, not small money, but hundreds of millions. They took over the cartridge when the group around Tilo Berlin, who later became the bank's board of directors, became active. So the swamp is adventurous! If you were to record the network, we would need the whole wall back there. But that's the state in the Republic. Check it out in the “New Zurich Newspaper! ” It's already been mentioned. This group has stolen hundreds of millions in action with the Graz mutuals, I would like to say, because they have organized deep-safe papers and constructions. In the transition to Bayern, they took out returns of up to 40 percent and took zero risk themselves. They have taken out loans for this operation from the Bayern-LB with zero risk so that it is financed, and finally made the super-cut. Who's there? – Your bells, let’s call them: Mr Veit Sorger from the Industrial Union and a number of others. That was not just the relatives and Haberers of Tilo Berlin. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The mother-in-law!]] There's a lot more Haberer in the Republic. They've all been cut – and they shouldn't pay for anything now? By the way, my knowledge is that there is a tax penalty. That is, we also have a handle in the investigation committee. That's the best thing in the end: They don't even want to pay taxes for this whole process! But that's what you can say: Well, when did such guys ever like to pay taxes? – That’s another subject, but that’s a possibility that we can get hold of it. There is no reason at all to protect these people. Why are you doing this, Federal Chancellor? Mr. Finanzminister, why are you doing this? – That is totally irresponsible! I understand people better and better. It is just so far, after the outbreak of the financial crisis now also in Austria, that more and more citizens join together and say: We're not paying for your crisis! – They are right! They say: We don't pay for your looting banks! – They are right! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] They say: We're not paying for your mismanagement! – They are right! And they say: We do not pay for this financial crime! – They are right! Now justify yourself! Because in reality, these injured citizens and families have to nail the houses. Now the Federal Government is coming up with the plan and saying: Great, we've got an institution solution now! – We heard an institution solution, which means: At least €5 500 per family! But this money is simply taken from our families, from the population and from those I have described now. That's incredible! How do you want to stand up to this? - You're in three months of retiring, I'll tell you. You won't stand it. Clean your table now! Now, too, make the way for the investigations. Otherwise you will not be there in half a year! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] But the story goes on. We have addressed the control failure. The state commissioners – who does not know anyone we have presented in the investigation committee – were still going on – who sent the Ministry of Finance to the banks, also to Hypo Alpe-Adria, were friends of Karl-Heinz Grasser, and friends, in this case there was even a lady. They just watched! They've never done anything, but they're part of the control system. When I allowed myself – you can read all this in the APA – to name it, I, as so often in these contexts, have been threatened with complaints. But you have run the inspectors who have deliberately failed to do the control and still honoured the taxpayers' money, because they are still paid for it! This was one of the most dramatic results of the Committee of Inquiry that these state commissioners either abolished or were in any case held responsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's still going on. Even the famous sheet of notes, to which we now have to come, has not caused the necessary. Although there have been critical reports – you will be able to answer them in the first questions – there have actually been a number of critical reports. But what happened? What did the ach so great black and blue financial supervision do with these reports? - Nothing! Looking away, for years, right in this period! That would be the problem, because the creditors could come and say: Where was the supervision? We have a trust protection. – That could be the only problem. But that is again the failure of the government – by whom else! – but not the taxpayer. This note bank has done nothing. The FMA at least served Mr. Kulter there. But what is Austrian reality? – Because he had already found enough crimes at the time, such as balance sheet counterfeiting, he had to leave. But do you know where he came from? – Not to the indictment bank where he is now, but to the chair of the Supervisory Board chair of the Hypo Alpe-Adria! That was Austrian real policy a few years ago. And for that, you want to take the taxpayers to responsibility. A whore! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Who did he sit there with? – As the culter, there Mr Ederer of the GRAVE, who is still going for a walk today, as he said, is sitting here on the dock. But this one here doesn't want to pay for it because you let it run. I can't! And now it comes: the peak of the inspection failure in 2008. The Bayern have now bought the thing. In December 2008, the BayernLB Board of Directors – and behind it the whole CSU; who know In part, you should not deny that now –: Ha, that's not gonna work out again! By the way, what the FPÖ says is: They've just moved on, extended for success – yes, but they're all being locked up faster there now. And that's where this board of directors comes up with the idea: We need a capital that has decided in Austria a super bank package where the Minister of Finance has said that will be a great business, a great business! - That's what it was. And they meant: What's the business like? – Well, we, Bavaria, want to put 700 million into it, whether their Austrians should put €900 million in tax money as alleged participation capital there! Of course, we did! – The Competition Commission is, of course, opposed, because this is not healthy for a staunch bank. But what happened? – After all, the local bank has not been called horrendous, that would have been the ‘distressed’, in English, but more old English, so oblivion. However, this bank was not referred to as sound, that is to say, healthy. – There are only these two terms. – No, now the creativity of the Austrian real financial constitution comes into play, which could not be Balkanesker – one must apologise for this expression there, but at the hypo it fits so well. They have now invented the term “not distressed, ” because they knew that they must somehow achieve something positive, although everything was broken. For a dead cow, a live state was issued – I want to see the veterinarian who does that! - That's what caused you! [[Rejoicing with MEPs from Greens and NEOS]] Now there is the e-mail traffic, which clearly indicates that the central bank has also been put under pressure. And that's... Breyer an Turner: We should remain critical. Then it goes on: The EU paper.... And so on. And: Remember, if they can't pay, it'll come to the U-committee. They've proposed several variants, that's all come out, they're certainly not guilty. It happened under Governor Novotny. Whoever really signed that, we know, too. We will then present it accordingly. – This is a clear indication that this was ordered! This is what politics has to do with it. Of course, the note bank is not out of the tailor. But the only problem now is that you are the head of your task force with the governor who is responsible for this, and with his predecessor. That's the problem! Surrounded You are with serious consultants and not with those who should actually sit on another bank! - That's the point! You should know: The whole control failure is due to the responsibility of Liebscher and Novotny. And that's your top of the task force! And that's why the insolvency solution doesn't really come into play, because then all of this would be much stronger on the table. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] These consultants will guide you! That's a scandal! You don't get done. You don't get done! Even this time is too short. I can only recommend reading. This will be the central indictment for the largest financial scandal in the Republic: six times the Eurofighter fleet, flyer plus lubricating money – that is, it pays off in the investigation committee. Therefore, there is a need to disclose a number of things here, for example the party donations of the ÖVP. Finally, we come to those who have not yet been mentioned but who benefit from your behavior now. This is the Raiffeisen group, which consists of three mortgage banks: Hypo Oberösterreich, Styria and one more, the Upper Austrian Raiffeisenbank – you see, the things and the investigation committees are interconnected, which you then turn off precisely from this point on. They served the ÖVP with money. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] I don't want to say anything worse now. What's going on? Open your party donations! [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign.]] How much do you get from Raiffeisen? How much do you get from the Graz mutuals? You need to know in the Styria! These are the contexts! That's the felt! And he's gone. [[Prolonged applause with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] If we do this, if we approach it at the same time and together, that this work is happening and that the great believers and those who are not worthy of protection come along, then you have our hand for the common solution. But there's no shoulder closure for this failure coalition, we're making a new one ourselves. Give us the Ministry of Finance, we'll show you how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e9772	Mr Mag. Kogler, you are known for your word-witness, and I am sure you will find another, better word for the word “saints” in the future. I'm asking you not to use it anymore. In response to the urgent question, Mr Bundesminister für Financien spoke. Mr Vice-Chancellor, the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e9796	Mr Presi-dent! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if you listen to this, also following the debate on the morning, which Mr Kogler has now given the best – competition of insults, accusations to people, to the National Bank Governor, to the former National Bank Governor – you ask yourself: Where can this competition still lead, where can even deeper arguments be made? [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in all that you have said, I have not heard one, namely, the solution to the problem. And that's the big difference, ladies and gentlemen! We are responsible for the solution and not for the polemics that are being held here in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Also this wording from you: “You have to take it away from them.” – Yes, my Ladies and gentlemen, are we now going in the direction of saying that we are taking something away from them, and is that now, instead of the rule of law, the balled fist in this Republic? That can't be the point of the matter. On the contrary: We must remain on the ground of the rule of law, even if it is difficult, even if the responsibility – and we have already explained this today – is somewhere else, that is, where an all-is-tever-humanity has taken place in the country of Carinthia, where a bank has then been sold and said, so that now Carinthia will be rid of all the concerns in the future, and in truth we have a billion disaster that we have to answer today. That is what you have forgotten, which is actually the cause of the problem. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] I should like to point out once again why this is a situation which is extremely difficult right now: not because we are not now able to take a solution out of the sleeve so quickly, but because we still have three major aspects to consider. First of all, this is a legal situation in which this bank is also located. It is a settled bank. We have a Commission decision on the aid procedure, and it is clear that this is being observed. In other words, by mid-2015 the active daughters must be sold in the various South-East European countries, and after that this bank will be settled. Secondly, however, the Banking Act applies to this bank until then, and thus all the rules on equity ratios apply, which, of course, must always be observed. We have a market situation in which exactly this bank in Croatia, Serbia, in the other countries, must continue to grow on the market. That is why all these debates, which you are trying to break down from the fence, are not exactly encouraging. Or do you believe that a customer in Croatia will have great confidence in this bank if he follows this and understands what you are saying here in the future? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Rightfully, he doesn't know what happens to his money! That's the problem with the sheet of notes!]] But if he doesn't have it, we'll actually harm the Hypo Alpe-Adria-Group and thus our bank, which is still state-owned. Thirdly, We have liability. We have special liability in this bank, which is almost €13 billion in liabilities of the country of Carinthia, for those who signed bonds at the time. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you can turn it and turn it as you want, of course, these are good arguments for every investor. And if you think you're dealing with those on a coffee and say now they're just going to drop 50 percent of their demands, then You probably don't live up to what you've always argued otherwise. You have always told us that this is not at all possible, but a bank cannot participate at all. And now you believe that a fund that might hold such bonds will tell you coffee jams, 50 percent I'll give you? Yeah, do you think that's serious? That is precisely what we must say, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now let me say again: We have a clear period of time, which we have already presented today: ==References== I took on responsibility in the financial sector on December 13, 2013. ==References== In January 2014, the Taskforce issued a final report with four concrete proposals. ==References== We have discussed this with the Task Force in detail, so not for too long ago, and negotiations have begun. ==References== In February 2014, these negotiations also took place with the banks for the first proposed model, which unfortunately failed. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Three years too late!]] And we have given the order that the task force together with Statistics Austria will now put the next steps on the table in the form of a written proposal. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone here speaks of delay of time, of slowing down, of negligence, of negligence, he really does not know what he says. Let me therefore make a preliminary remark on the many questions you have asked me. You put 73 questions to me today for this urgent question. I'll answer that as well as I can. But I can't do one. If you ask, as in point 32, how the nationalization process went, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot now quote you for hours on the basis of the files, what's in there, that's what I think, not the sense of a urgent question, but I must concentrate on the essential political questions, and I will do the same. But I may refer once again to the reference, which was also agreed with you in the Presidency – so that the television viewers also know: I will answer your questions and then I will travel to Brussels because there is today a Euro group and then the ECOFIN tomorrow. On the government bank, I will be represented by the Secretary of State. I am here to answer the questions raised to me. Questions 1 to 11: ==References== On 3 March 2002, the Federal Ministry of Finance was the competent supervisory authority. Cases from this period are twelve years old and are no longer very prioritized for the present situation. ==References== In April 2002, the Financial Markets Supervisory Board took up its operational operation as an independent and non-profit supervisory authority, thus performing the tasks of auditing and drawing up audit reports. I would like to point out once again that both the financial market supervision and the central bank are independent authorities and are not subject to the law of the Federal Ministry of Finance. On questions 12 to 14, relating to the State Commissioner: The State Commissioner is a Financial Market Supervisory Body and solely responsible for reporting to them. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But you will be sent by the ministry!]] Question 15: Since the start of the operational supervision activity of the FMA, the Federal Ministry of Finance has been operating according to § 16 para. 4 Financial Market Supervisory Act commissioned two audit reports. I would like to point out that the instrument of § 16 para. 4 FMABG is not an instrument of ongoing supervisory activity. The first audit report commissioned covered the past revision of the BAWAG PSK in 2006. The entire case has been evaluated under the supervision of an external auditor for overseas transactions. As far as necessary, administrative arrangements were subsequently initiated. The second audit report concerned the liquidity situation of the Austrian financial institutions during the financial crisis. These were observed by the FMA and reported monthly to the BMF. As a result of the measures taken, the risk of liquidity could be prevented. On the question 16: The Federal Ministry of Finance was the competent supervisory authority of the Hypo Alpe-Adria until 31.3.2002. This task was subsequently carried out by the Financial Market Supervision and OeNB. The current situation is therefore no longer relevant to supervisory acts prior to 2002. In December 2009, financial market supervision was also requested to explain its supervisory activities between 2006 and 2009. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You will know what the supervision is doing!]] On the question 17: The liability of the country of Carinthia as well as the guarantees given by other federal states are based solely on national legislation. The liability was granted in the case of Carinthia by a decision of the Kärntner Landtag. Questions 18 and 19: Since 2002, the country of Carinthia has taken advantage of the possibility of financing through the Austrian Federal Finance Agency. The conditions of the federal government were passed on one to the country of Carinthia. Currently, the funding volume is around €1.4 billion. The conditions were linked to the fact that the country of Carinthia may receive maximum financing via the federal government of the authorised Maastricht balance in accordance with the Austrian Stability Pact, including due repayments of the respective year. The OeBFA criteria are based on the federal budget law and the principles of a risk-related financial management action, applying the Risk Management Guidelines to all relevant types of risk. These are in particular the risk types of credit, market, liquidity, reputation, legal and operational risk approved by the Supervisory Board of ÖeBFA. Question 20: The decision on the purchase of participation capital 2008 was taken by the Ministry of Finance under the Financial Market Stability Act with the consent of the Federal Chancellery. I can remind you of this: At the time, € 1.45 billion was applied for by the Bank, and € 900 million was granted. And one of the conditions was that the Bayerische Landesbank would fire €700 million of equity into the bank at that time. On question 21: In the negotiations on participation capital in December 2008, the Bavarian Landesbank was also represented. On the question 22: The signing of public participation capital in 2008 primarily served to strengthen the Bank's equity. Therefore, minority owners, such as the GRAWE, have not taken a negotiating position against the BMF. That means the bank was the negotiator, but not the individual owners. Questions 23 and 24: There was a request from the Executive Board, a position paper from the Executive Board, the opinion of the OeNB and a letter from the auditor. These bases of decision have been examined. On question 25: It has been agreed that an opinion of the central bank is needed. According to the FinStaG, it had to be established whether the bank is system-relevant and whether the bank was distressed for the European Commission’s aid decision. On the question 26: Yes, the opinion of the OeNB was decisive for the decision of the Ministry of Finance. On the question 27: No, there is no evidence that the Ministry of Finance has had an influence on those involved in this opinion. Questions 28 to 30: No divergent statements have been seen here. The capital injection of the Bayerische Landesbank amounting to € 700 million – as I have already said – was a condition in the negotiations and also in the opinion. This was also the negotiating position of the Ministry of Finance. At that time, the main shareholder, that is, the Bavarian Landesbank, had to make a substantial own contribution of €700 million. Questions 31 to 47: Now I come to the whole subject complex nationalization. I would like to predict that this subject complex has already been the subject of many extensive written questions. I therefore ask you to understand that I cannot repeat all of this now, because you can understand how and where some of the things you wanted to know were answered at the time. However, I would like to say one more thing at this point: Taking into account the time pressure that night from 13 to 14 In December 2009, a great effort was made by all parties to ensure a satisfactory outcome for the Bank, for the Republic and for the financial market in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What happened?]] Question 48: The Task Force includes experts from the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, financial market supervision, FIMBAG, BMF and the mandated coordinator. Questions 49 and 50: There is no evidence in this respect in the Federal Ministry of Finance. On question 51: Cooperation on the part of the BMF with the National Bank and the FMA takes place along the legal provisions. However, both the National Bank and the FMA are not bound by any instructions in the performance of the tasks assigned to them by law. On question 52: The requirement control of measures according to FinStaG has been transferred from the federal government to FIMBAG, i.e. to FinStaG's financial market share AG and is also carried out by it. This FIMBAG report on the Court of Auditors' quoted report on 6 June. The Commission took the view that the Commission's assessment of the impact of the anti-dumping measures on imports from third countries should be based on the Commission's assessment of the injury suffered by the Union industry. This showed clear contradictions with the Court of Auditors’ allegations and stated that the FIMBAG had complied with the delegated control. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Court of Auditors sees this differently!]] In particular, FIMBAG has stated in this opinion that uncertainties identified as a result of the audit activity could be resolved in direct discussions between the FIMBAG and the banks concerned in accordance with the conditions of compliance with the requirements. Information procurement required to control the conditions was carried out through regular management discussions with the banks as well as through the examination of written documents and information. Discussions with bank and financial auditors also take place on a regular basis. On questions 53 and 54: The European Commission’s decision to grant aid was not taken until September 2013. The Commission's information took some time because extensive information was requested. In the meantime, an internal resolution unit has already been set up in the bank itself and several foreign interests have been settled. In addition, large portfolio parts, similar to a Bad Bank, were transferred into resolution units. On question 55: In response to the letter from the European Commission, to the state aid procedure submitted by September 2012 was a continuous response and the relevant information was also provided. Questions 56 to 58: The drawing of bonds is a matter of private law between the issuer and the issuer of securities. Therefore, there is no detailed information available to the Ministry of Finance on the initials and on the current owners of the bonds. I cannot therefore announce who has drawn these bonds, nor can I say who is fair, serious or protective of these bonds. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But we are debtors! You are the owner!]] It is clear, however, that the risk situation for these bonds without the Carinthian bonds would of course have been quite another. Without these liabilities, of course, an emission volume of more than €20 billion would not have been so placeable on the market. [[Abg. May. Kogler: How should the bank know where to transfer the money?]] On question 59: There is a federal liability approved by the European Commission and reported to Parliament for a subordinate bond issued in December 2012 amounting to €1 billion. Question 60: There is no legal obligation or promise by the federal government to enter into the liabilities of the country of Carinthia. However, second round effects should not be overlooked in this context. On question 61: Contractually, a restriction was agreed with the author of the opinion. Oliver Wyman views the chosen analytical, methodological and conceptual approaches and insights as his intellectual property. Clients are therefore obliged to protect this interest in presentations, methods and analysis techniques. Therefore, without the prior written approval of Oliver Wyman, the transfer, accessibility or provision of these documents to third parties is also prohibited to the Federal Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Then she'll catch up!]] On questions 62 and 63: The Task Force has proposed four models after intensive investigations of more than 20 models and variants on the recommendation of external consultants, including the Bankhaus Lampe. As it has recently been found that the preferred model of the Task Force, i.e. the participation of the banks, is not feasible, the institution model or parameters for this implementation are currently being developed and tested in accordance with the cascade proposed by the Task Force. On question 64: At the moment no further advice has been given to Oliver Wyman. Questions 65 and 66: Due to the emergency nationalisation of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the Republic of Austria has undertaken its commitment to support the system-related banks and to secure the Austrian financial centre at the height of the financial crisis. Significant holdings of all old owners for the recapitalisation of Hypo Alpe-Adria could also be achieved: The Bayerische Landesbank contributed a total of 825 million. GRAWE has made a contribution of €30 million by drawing participation capital. [[Abg. May. Kogler: After super!]] The Carinthian Land holding company and the country of Carinthia have made a contribution of 200 million through the conversion of supplementary capital to participation capital of 50 million and by drawing new participation capital of 150 million. The capitalizations provided by the old owners thus amount to just over € 1 billion. In addition, measures to strengthen the liquidity of the Hypo Alpe-Adria were taken by the Bayerische Landesbank and the GRAWE. The Bayerische Landesbank has provided €2.3 billion of refinancing lines and the GRAWE has committed itself to grant the Hypo Alpe-Adria 100 million of refinancing opportunities by the end of 2013. Moreover, in its September 2013 aid decision, the European Commission confirmed that the old owners were significantly and appropriately included in the burden distribution. On question 67: Of course, all options for action relating to an error in the disputed purchase contract are subject to a detailed examination. In this respect, there are several opinions to the Ministry that indicate that such a thing can be successful. I should like to point out once again that it would no longer have been possible to claim this at the end of 2013 due to limitation. Together with the Bavarian Landesbank, we have achieved that they agree to a further one year ban. That is, we have time by the end of 2014 to perhaps file such a misdemeanor. Questions 68 and 69: The award of advisory contracts takes place within the framework of the usual business conduct and, of course, lies in the sole responsibility of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of the Bank. There is no information available to the Federal Ministry of Finance as an owner. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please! The owner has nothing to talk about!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who's the bank for? The managers don't belong to the bank!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We can do numbers, but we must not know anything!]] I cannot take any influence either because of the rules on shares. On question 70: The impact on the government debt ratio and the public deficit after Maastricht can only be examined in detail if the decommissioning model is concrete. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] On questions 71 and 72: Budgetary policy must be designed and implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union and the reformed EU Stability and Growth Pact. On the question 73: The European Commission’s authorisation of 3 March 1994 In September 2013, the maximum allowable limits on own funds or liquidity that the Bank may provide are clearly defined. If, as a result of further restructuring or the reduction of units, this can happen, the European Commission will be required to request approval in accordance with the mandatory primary aid provisions. This should, of course, be done in such a case. I've tried to answer your questions. I should like to take up once again the offer put forward by Mr Kogler to take part in the debate and in the decision-making process. Finally, this is a matter that affects all of us. We must try to find the best solution for Austria. It is not yet on the table in all possible consequences. I therefore invite you to stay in conversation with me and also to exchange some information about the usual ones in a confidential circle. I hope we come to a good conclusion together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10140	For business treatment, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig has reported. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10164	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! In all openness and clarity: The answer to this question was scandalous from my point of view and from the point of view of the Green Group. It is your political decision whether you want to give any answers to certain questions at all. They have completely ruled out a block of questions, which is clearly within Parliament's right of interpolation, namely the entire area of failure of the control and supervisory authorities. That was eleven specific questions. All information on violations of law is clearly in our business area, which we may and must ask for. You have not answered the questions about the core area of emergency nationalization to 100 percent. From my point of view, there is now only one consequence: Either there is a parliamentary investigation committee, where you must also declare yourself under the duty of truth, or we will have to request further special meetings to: To get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10206	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10233	Mr President. My very dear representatives of the government on the government bank! High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and on the televisions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The Minister of Finance goes!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are no longer here now, but the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are here. Your attempt to answer these questions has failed to the most miserable. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: But Faymann could have stayed there!]] Let's start with the fact that you just crossed an entire block, namely, questions 1 to 11. That has already been pointed out. To bring this to the attention of all television audiences, but also of all the people here in the room: It is about whether the Ministry of Finance and the control authorities at the Hypo-Alpe-Adria have noticed anything with regard to painting, rule violations or law violations. The Minister of Finance has obviously not noticed anything. Or something has happened to him, and he is not willing to speak and answer it. He will have to do so within the framework of a committee of inquiry. He can choose it. But one thing he can't do: He cannot request a national shoulder closure on the one hand this morning and on the other hand in this House simply refuse to answer many of the 73 questions that have been asked here. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] These were not the only questions he did not answer. He has also left out the whole complex of emergency nationalization, namely, questions 31 to 47, essentially and not answered. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Not “in essence”! It's all out of the way!]] He simply pointed out that everything was done to keep a major disaster away from that country. Yeah, but what was that? What has he done, then Mr Josef Pröll, together with the Secretary of State and who can always have sat on its side? We would like to know what was happening around this emergency state. It was one of the central events around which there is a lot of darkness. If the Minister for Finance is not willing to answer these questions, how should we base ourselves on a solution? That's what he asked us to do. But we do not even know what is, for example, in relation to the Bayern LB or in relation to the Graz mutual cause. These are exciting questions! These are not any questions we would like to have an answer to. - So much about the questions. But now the preliminary remarks made by the Minister of Finance. He has started to say that Mr Kogler has entered into a “competition of abuses”. – Mr Kogler has done nothing but repeat this twenty-sided question. Those who read through this request will be able to see that it is not an abuse and not a “competition of the abuses”. Instead, facts were collected and collected. This is, by the way, very worthwhile for all, even for possible committees of inquiry. Those who have listened carefully to the honourable Member will also be able to see that he has also spoken about solutions. Not for nothing is addressed in the title of the urgent request of the “protection of taxpayers from the total failure of the Federal Government”. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Since it is a “competition of insults ” to speak of, it is a scandal in itself. As a result, you said you can't spell a solution out of your sleeve as quickly as possible. That's what I'm seriously asking myself: What have you and your predecessor and their predecessors done in the last four years since emergency nationalization? – Yes, you have slept everything there is to sleep! The institutions of the bank have repeatedly called for the establishment of a Bad Bank. In the 2012 Annual Report, three Bad Banks were established internally, and lazy assets in the order of 11.7 were outsourced to these Bad Banks. The Chairman of the Board has failed to set up a Bad Bank and to inform the former Minister of Finance. You, Mrs. Finanzminister, have refused to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I brought the Bayern back into the boat!]] That is why the Chairman of the Board of Directors has resigned, as has the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. You, Mrs. Finanzminister, have done a great deal of work in the way that has been carried out, because you have not been prepared to give Austrians pure wine to the Austrians in the run-up to the National Council elections. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, I took back the Bayern!]] They did not have the courage to say that this is the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic, which will be very expensive for taxpayers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I brought the Bayern back into the boat!]] Let's see how much the taxpayers have already paid in to the Hypo Alpe-Adria – it has already been mentioned several times today –: It's $4.8 billion. That's a lot of money. For the banks as a whole, much more has been paid – not only for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also for other banks. Because it is grossly over €8 billion, which are now lost, which have been placed in the sand. Net that is about € 6.5 billion – away, simply so, at the expense of taxpayers. In connection with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, of course, you have to ask yourself the question where the solutions, which are as gentle as possible for the taxpayer, have remained. Mrs. Minister of Finance, out of service! You've talked about it all the time, but you haven't done anything. In fact, the current government is also relying on a task force that has not been prepared to move away from its only model, which it has carried over and over the last few months, namely the participation model. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance said here and today that Austria should win the game. I can only understand that the Austrian taxpayers have to win this game. But if you're going to win this game, there's a different game situation in this country. Every coach in football would exchange those who have failed in a game – and I am thinking about the task force. What did the representatives of the Task Force do? – They have basically protected themselves by concealing the control failure in relation to the Hypo Alpe-Adria. This is really what both Mr Liebscher and Mr Novotny have done. And who are the winners of this whole game? – The winners were definitely the old owners – the Bavarian Landesbank, the Graz mutuals, but also the country of Carinthia. Of course, winners were also very high creditors: the banks, the insurance companies, the funds. They have granted loans because they knew exactly that they can do so against the background that there are liability. Why did the banks of the Hypo provide such generous loans? – Because they knew that these liabilities were granted. Now, in the context of the last presented institution solution, it is said: We need to protect these creditors. That's absurd! That's the next scandal! These creditors are simply and simply not worthy of protection! In this country, only the taxpayers are protected in connection with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but not any banks and insurance companies and not also those hedge funds that have recently entered the stage of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You always asked Bad Bank!]] We've always called for Bad Bank, by the way, years ago. But you didn't do anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] By the way, we have always called for Bail-in scenarios, Mrs Finanzminister, if you remember. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There are also mixed scenarios!]] We have always said that we want both the owners and the creditors to be involved. These were also the demands that we have always made in connection with the installation of the Banking Union at European level and with the right of bank restructuring. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Of course we wanted to know that also applied to the Hypo Alpe-Adria. A solution other than one that also involves the old owners and creditors will not understand taxpayers in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10420	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10441	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the morning we explained who was responsible for the malaise, namely, the FPÖ and the officials of the FPÖ from Carinthia. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This debate is now essentially about the question: Who pays at the end of the day and what is the cheapest solution for the taxpayer? Yeah, there's the Wyman opinion, which says: Insolvency and therefore taking the creditors, the creditors, would be the best solution for the taxpayer. But one must say that this is, of course, a very limited view, namely, the isolated view of the insolvency, which ignores the game over effect, the loss of reputation and so on. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] There are even experts who say the insolvency is more expensive than the settlement, because immediately the assets within the bank lose in value and become more difficult to sell, and this is already becoming more expensive despite the involvement of creditors. In the same way, there are other experts, such as a Swiss financial consultant, who say: The risks and costs for the Republic of Austria are not in relation to the savings effect by involving the other creditors of the Bank. They see incalculable consequences on the refinancing costs of the federal government, only the discussion about possible insolvency has caused damage to the profitability of the assets. That means it's not that easy. And if it were as simple as that is presented here by some – that is quite simple, you make an insolvency, the creditors pay with it, and the taxpayers save themselves money – then that would, I think, have happened a long time ago. It's not that easy. There are a number of other effects. If you bear responsibility and if you really deal with it here and not only polemically and superficially, then you see, there are also questions like: What does Austria have to pay for interest in the year? A simple bill: If Austria had to pay only 1 percent higher interest for a year, that would mean 2.7 billion €. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] This is the result of the following: If I have a year of refinancing costs of about €30 billion and pay 1 percent more for 10 years of government bonds, then I have a cash loss of €2.7 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It's a very simple bill. Mr Kogler, you certainly have colleagues at the workplace who can tell you this. I think you could even count on it yourself if you wanted. That's just the risks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I could also take 300 billion € risk if I wanted to!]] - I'm just saying: For a year 1 percent more means by €2.7 billion higher costs. If you really want to deal with this honestly, if you want to deal with a question of insolvency, you have to say: Yes, there would be an isolated view of this advantage, but there is also a risk that is even incalculable or, at 1 percent, almost €3 billion – these are the questions. I'm with you, too. I also understand many others, not only the creditors who draw bonds. Of course, I understand the old owners. Not only Carinthia, not only Bavaria, of course also GRAWE and others. I also think of the money needle that has been addressed, those who have collected €150 million by the way, along with mother-in-law. Or was he himself? You don't know that. They were there too. That's where a lot of people fall. I invade the Land-Hypos and their owners who, of course, benefit from the rescue. The thing is just, now you can just make yourself and say: They all have to pay!, but we still live in a rule of law, and there you have to honestly say that the legal levers against this group, we say, end up willing. Politically-morally, I have a claim, but the thing is that at the end of the day you have to be able to enforce it legally. This must be said again and again when dealing with this question honestly, honestly and responsibly. It's easy to say: They've collected, they have an advantage and they're supposed to pay!, but how it goes and if you ever put it together, whether you would bring it together at all – I mean, you don't get into this embarrassment anyway – that's on a different sheet. To that extent, I really appeal: Let us have an objective discussion on these issues and not only do we carry out the cheap polemics we experience here for half the day. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] There are also other very important questions that we must deal with in this context. First of all, I don't see these €19 billion. What I see is that we have so far not fully paid for the hypo, but almost €5 billion, budget-effective until now €3.3 billion, and that in the next few years a lot will also come to us. As I said, the European Commission calculates that it would be just under €4 billion, and others in their bills come to €5 billion to €7 billion, which will be on the budget for the next five or ten years, until everything is adjusted. These are the figures that we have to talk about in a fair or honest way, and of course no one can say how much it will cost at the end of the day, because no one knows at what price I will sell which assets in one, two, five or seven years. It would be unreasonable to mention an exact number, but I have now outlined the scale we need to talk about from today's point of view. Yes, this is a disaster for the budget, but not a new disaster, but one that we have had for five years. Not only do we have the hypo on our necks, but we have had to put in place a whole series of measures. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: It's getting bigger and bigger, that's the problem!]] No, it's not getting bigger. It's been a long time. You weren't here in the last legislative period. In the last five years, the banks have cost us €7 billion net under the line. That's what it's cost us in recent years. Politically, we have responded in that we have also said that we want the banks and the financial sector to make a contribution. We've really collected €4 billion from the banks in the last five years, and we're going to cash about €7 billion over the next ten years. The matter lies like this: We say, yes, we have partly had to pre-finance, only for us would it be good if we could all agree politically on it to say: Yes, at the end of the day, the banks are supposed to pay for it! [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: I'm for that, that's okay!]] This is what I hear from the SPÖ, and it also puts it through and through, and we see it in the laws, but I do not see that we here, the whole house, would be of this opinion and you, Mr Strolz, too, would come out and say: Yes, it's right when the banks pay, so it's important that the bank levy continues to exist, it's important that we do that. It is important that you not only promote short-sighted isolated benefits here, but also show the whole picture, not only the benefits, but also the risks behind it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] Yes, the banks have cost us a lot of money, not only the hypo, but also the hypo, and yes, they will cost us a lot more money. I kept saying this again and again three, four, five years ago. That's nothing new. And yes, we want all of us to make a contribution as far as possible that the financial market contributes and the banks make a contribution. We have not only said this, but we have also implemented it by putting in place measures here to ensure that the banks make a proper contribution. But I often lack political support, I honestly say, because the banks do not like to pay for it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why? I keep saying that!]] But I rarely hear from the opposition parties: It's great that there's the bank charge! See that she's staying! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10561	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10582	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If I let this debate happen a little bit, I must say that I regret a lot of what has been said here. If we continue to do so, we will not contribute to the reduction of damage. If every day all kinds of accusations, including in the direction of the bank, happen, I have to say: This accusation did not deserve thousands of employees of this bank. You should blame the leadership, but not the employees! It should not be said that this bank is a Gaunerbank. This is a cutback, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We don't blame the employees! It's incredible!]] The only serious contribution this morning came from Mr Podgorschek when he said: In the 1990s one meant: What does the world cost? [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It was all meated so to speak. No one knew the boundaries anymore. What does the world cost? At the time, they went so far as to qualify cooperative banks as something from the past. It was said that the new models were targeted, and you had to do quite a different banking business. Lehman Brothers brought this world of shadows to our eyes when it collapsed with twenty billions of damage. After that, there were bank claims without number in America, difficulties of the West German Landesbank, even the great Swiss UBS needed 60 billion in liability by the Swiss state, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But now there are 500 banks in the USA...!]] Austria had already had enough bank claims – BHI, Rieger Bank, Bank Burgenland and others could be listed – but this case, that is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen, is breaking all borders. This is the greatest disaster in the history of Austria, a damage as it has never been. There a bank was used as a playground, namely by a big-scale country captain and by an vain Director-General, who meant it was bigger and bigger best. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If she's doing business with Mafia, it's a gauner bank! “Gauner” is right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the so “great” posters back then. The politicians of the new generation have been pasted: Jörg Haider, Heide Schmidt, Norbert Gugerbauer. These were the new posters, that was sold to us like that. We know what's left. How did Jörg Haider announce in a press release – and there was a remarkable press speaker, Petzner –? ‘Carinthia is becoming rich.’ This Kärntner Landesbank was the most successful Landesbank in Austria, and was also plausible. There's nothing left to hear about this today, ladies and gentlemen. “And to keep the bank from accessing locust funds such as Cerberus is a command of the hour,” said the press release of Kärntner’s head of state Jörg Haider, 18th century. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen, today there is nothing left to hear from “Kärnten is going to be rich. Carinthia is and remains on a future course”, as was signaled at the time. The future course looks like Austria has the damage and the Carinthians are cashing. It's remarkable. Yes, everyone made mistakes at the time, no matter what party, so that it is clear, whether red or black, or blue – under blue leadership, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We have no...!]] It is also noteworthy that I read a request from the Carinthian Landtag, which the rapporteur Mr Gritsch reads from the FP: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law, which contributes as an instrument to economic recovery in the country, provides for an unlimited liability of the country of Carinthia as a guarantee of default for the liabilities of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank in the event of the inability of the stock company to pay, including not only all liabilities before the date of transfer as a banking company, but also all future liabilities of the stock company. The guarantee of default may be declared unilaterally by the country of Carinthia, whereby the mortgage shall be made liable for the take-over of the guarantee.’ No votes against, not the Greens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was an unlimited liability!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this was an unlimited liability, borne by all parties – my own group has also agreed to make it clear – but under the leadership of a country chief and a financial officer, so that one can hold it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But that was the system! The main mistake was the liability in itself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the following should be held: Such a Carinthian hypo would never have had the chance of bloating the balance sheet amounts or making such volumes or risking loans that were at the limit of the future if the country of Carinthia had not taken over the liability if economic or financial sense had been a little stronger in the country. But that was obviously not the case. Then there is a Director-General, willing, greedy for power, for recognition and for Boni, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] That was once fashion, even the bonuses should flow, so to speak, due to the success. There was arrears in cooperatives, no longer in modern times. Nor does it help any more imprisonment, ladies and gentlemen, the economic damage the taxpayer has. Despite this huge problem, this damage becomes greater every day. Every headline, every report, whether at ORF or in other media, makes the situation worse. Nor does this urgent today contribute to the reduction of damage, but not at all. For the customers of this bank are insecure daily, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the Stronach team.]] Good employees will ask themselves: Am I still staying at this institute? Flee forward, get out, save yourself, who can! Saving deposits are deducted. Rehabilitation managers with half a good qualification have to ask themselves three times if they are doing this job. You'll be shown politically every day, no matter who it is. Qualified supervisory bodies must also ask themselves: Should I go in there? It's no chance. When I'm pulled in front of the curtain every day, I can make an equal amount of self-harm before I go in there to contribute to the reduction of damage. Because not because of the matter, but because of party politics, this story is being subtracted here. One simply tries to make the European elections to achieve a political outcome, perhaps, but not for the purpose of minimizing damage, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Reputation damage is very often done here by so many people who themselves would not even be able to run a small village bank. This too should become clear, ladies and gentlemen. That there is a ghastly failure of supervision – no, I really wonder what it was for. – For cruising, but not at all, we would say in the country of Upper Austria. She was also blind, ignorant, unable, ladies and gentlemen in many other areas. I'd be interested in something else: Where were the auditors, so to speak, the testers who delivered the testat? Where were they? Ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're right!]] Payed high, unable – and deliver a testat! It was only when it was no longer done that the testat was withdrawn, ladies and gentlemen. There, too, you could ask yourself what was going on. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Right! So you're for the investigation committee, too?]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] There were also only silences on the part of the Court of Auditors in the woods, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors calls out that its audit competence should also be extended to small communities. Where, then, was the Court of Auditors with the country of Carinthia to examine what liability is being placed? If you allow more than twelve times a national budget of liability, you have to ask yourself the question of what actually happened. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the damage is there. You can only try to minimize it. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That would be the best. But one thing would be important: a six-month media rest period, so that the best managers, the best experts have the chance to clean up, minimize the damage, keep the damage as low as possible, ladies and gentlemen. And then, Mr Kogler, I am with you. Then, if necessary, there is nothing against political and legal information and even an appropriate examination. Then all those responsible, regardless of their reputation, must, as it were, be in front of the curtain!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10803	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e10825	Mr President. My lady and my lord on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer has already mentioned this correctly, but I believe that Mr Auer, who is asking for a medial break or a break in the opposition, after having been living inactivity since 2009, can certainly not be it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say, although this morning we debated diligently and many things have been eagerly discussed and pointed out on the subject of hypo – and, of course, the subject area is a very diverse one – we are far from at the end of the debate on the substance. Of course, if the responsibilities have been shown differently, one thing is certain: The responsibility of an irresponsible nationalization in 2009 certainly does not bear the FPÖ, nor does Dr. Jörg Haider, but this Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP. Due to nationalization, the damage has only been caused. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] And because of the inactivity since the time of nationalization under red and black, when the Bavaria were released from their responsibility and it was overturned by the Austrian taxpayer and therefore the liability chain was reversed – which was to the main owner, the BayernLB, of course the BayernLB, the country of Bavaria, the creditors, and then only came the failure of the country of Carinthia – you have asked the taxpayer to cash out by this compulsory stateization without need in truth. This is your fault, and I call it a financial crime on the Austrian taxpayer! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is to be clarified, and it is precisely this chain of responsibility that is involved – until the subsequent inactivity after the nationalization to this day. These are not a few months, 2009 to 2014, but these are several years that you can not push the head of state, the deceased Dr. Jörg Haider, or another party into the shoes, but that is the responsibility of SPÖ and ÖVP. And I say, that's what people recognize. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The Minister was not idle, no, not at all. Business was spoken of, it was about development, it was even examined developments up to the stock exchange instead of the specified settlement. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs Finanzminister, why has there been no Bad Bank as a result of the nationalization? That would have been necessary at the time, as we see from other countries. Ireland has done so, and Ireland has also adopted the rescue shield because it has acted in good time. There are some models you can look at. In Switzerland at the UBS one has lived it. In Switzerland, a Bad Bank has been installed, but not the budget, not the taxpayer directly charged, but the note bank has been asked to provide a loan that was not budget-effective and, if possible, did not include the taxpayer, and it has come out of the crisis relatively quickly. There are different possibilities to test. You have to ask yourself, of course, in connection with the hypo, who actually benefits from the hypo disaster. – I say, of course, it also saves around €1.5 billion from the liability association of the hypo-land banks, especially of course ÖVP-led countries such as Lower Austria, Tyrol and Vorarlberg, which have also decided on state liability. I say respect for the head of state of Vorarlberg Wallner, who says clearly and clearly: Please, ÖVP, finally vote in favour of the Investigation Committee! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] – Today is an opportunity to set this signal instead of continuing to cover everything. It should also be borne in mind that the Raiffeisen Group, as co-owners of some Hypo-Landesbanks, benefits greatly from this solution to date. for Raiffeisen can thus shift its entire risk through SPÖ and ÖVP to the local taxpayer. These are truths! It is also the fact that the Hypo Alpe-Adria was and is organized in the form of a stock company, and a AG knows comprehensive due diligence for its organs and, in particular, its board of directors, according to the Stock Exchange Act. That's how you can or must speak of a criminal case. Of course, the courts are asked to clarify this. There is nothing in the Stock Act of obedience to national bodies, except one is chairman of the Supervisory Board. That was the case with Mr Martinz if we are already with those responsible. The hypo has lived an expansive strategy, we know, and this is to be condemned. It has begun to develop in a wide variety of areas, and it must not be forgotten that the Bayern were greedy of the hypo because they had the capital that the hypo did not have to expand further. That was the reason that Bavaria was so interested in the hypo and bought it. At the latest, one could rightly have breathed out, but that was not the case. Bavaria has continued to raise capital, has expanded further, and in the end has provided an additional 8 billion of securities for which we are now liable, because we have re-nationalized the bank, rather than taking Bayern to responsibility. To release the Bavaria from liability for this damage is improper. You can't drive without a lawyer, and you can't justify that because of the time pressure. There was no time pressure, because the first secret talks took place in September 2009 and the Bavarian Landtag did not make much, much later, in December, the decision to leave the bank to the Austrians. That means there were months in between. In Bavaria we have been dealing with the country day, we in Austria have not been dealt with by Parliament, we have not conducted a public debate. The Bavaria have knocked on the thighs and said: There is no such thing as that, we actually wanted further grants of participation capital, which we wanted to negotiate with the Austrians, and at once the Austrians come with the variant of nationalization! This was not even expected by Bavaria, but they were delighted that such a nonsense was proposed by the Austrian side, which they accepted gratefully – with all the developments we know today. The Bayern have actually done a half-good business afterwards. They could transfer everything back to us, so to speak. Some things have gone wrong in this way, and that is what it applies to clarifying. This requires a committee of inquiry, because the years 2008 to today are not clarified. To make the mistake, to reduce everything only to the time before, this will not continue in the long run, nor will the taxpayers allow it to go through. So it is important to highlight all sides in this debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, of course, since 2008, the world economic crisis has also been decisive for the problems that have been facing Bavaria, and the European Union has therefore also acted accordingly and has said: End East business, return to core business. There's got to be reports, and much more. Yes, but that was already the responsibility of Bavaria. I also have to repeat what I said this morning: Yes, the investors who have for years earned the best in the field of soccer and the Speculation, are even if there is a risk of taking responsibility. I say that it is necessary to review orderly insolvency. Once again, I repeat the demand for orderly insolvency to check at least this if it is possible to save the taxpayer €8 to €14 billion if the soccer and the big creditors, who have done a good business with this risk business for years, bear the responsibility. There are examples of this, from Iceland to other areas, that this could be done very well and in a good way for the taxpayer and that banks could be rehabilitated again. I say that the involvement of speculators is necessary. The prevention of cross-financing of profits from taxpayers by taxpayers would be a clear signal for the future, because such a practice would be removed in the future. This, of course, requires courage and not a chairmanial attitude of the so-called experts who have so far completely failed as supervisory authorities, and ultimately also to Liebscher and the National Bank President. Yes, they have a seat mentality to some degree, and that's not good. That also brought us where we are today. A Wyman report or documentation, an analysis we should at least examine, we should check everything, and in the end the best variant, the cheapest variant for the taxpayer should be introduced to the meeting. The current establishment solution, as it is now on the table, namely to add it to the budget and to assign it fully to the taxpayer, is certainly the worst variant. You can assume that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you to take real responsibility, to say yes to the committee of inquiry, to join the opposition, finally to invite international experts and also to disclose: What was the performance of the previous consultants who have collected €300 to €400 million since 2009 and now present the result that the bank is supposed to be the right solution, not €2 billion, but up to €20 billion? So if this is the performance, then the rulers were certainly not worth their money. By the way, so many consultants in Austria do not have the ability to pay 300 to 400 million euros in consulting costs. That would really interest me, and I therefore seek to reveal once what has been done for a Schindluder in these advisory contracts. I remember that there have now also been judgments in the case of Carinthia, where €100 million has been checked by the prosecutor. We are only talking about at least three times the sum of the consulting contracts, not yet talking about other sums, which will also be examined. Of course, one must also remember that a Mr. Kranebitter, who was responsible, did something quite similar. He has given 25 million € of credit a week before the Alpine went into bankruptcy. That's what you need to remember. Mr Kulterer has been condemned for this. So I ask how we deal with all these matters and how we make fair assessments. Mr Kranebitter was not necessarily the right person who would have had experience in the area of East business or banking as an economic trustee. You can discuss a lot about the responsibilities of bank managers, and you might also need to ask whether one or the other is the right one. Director Pinkl, for example, came from Mr. Mendel as the director of the hypo. In addition, there is an interesting anecdote Mr. Mendel, the former ÖVAG director, was married to a Bavarian politician, namely Landesratin Mechthilde Wittmann, who in turn was in the Munich Seehofer circle, and Mr. Pinkl very soon transferred over 1.2 billion to Bavaria after he was employed. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Interesting things that one should examine further and for which one should also lay down responsibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11012	The next word to speak is Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11033	Mr President. Dear High House! I support the establishment of a committee of inquiry, in particular in order to address political responsibility. It may not be that individuals, self-employed and managers often have to be legally responsible for a minority, error or minor wrongdoing, while politicians seem to have no such rules because of their immunity or other circumstances. I say that we need very clear rules for politicians and their responsibility, and we also need to discuss this issue in the event of intent or gross negligence. But responsibility now also means dealing responsibly with this bank's resolution. A bank is a very sensitive being. You think of the customers, as we have already heard, and of course also of the many hard-working employees, who are now certainly completely unsure and are probably unable to do their daily business properly. The fact that the early establishment of a Bad Bank could have saved many billions and the early separation of the valuable and perhaps less valuable parts of that bank would have greatly improved the chances of the rest of the hypo, I believe is now out of question. But I would like to be constructive here and not always discuss the past. So now my appeal to everyone: We should simply discuss without aggression how best to solve this. Personally, I am not at all convinced of the establishment solution, because I believe that qualified investors are not more protective than taxpayers. I appeal that we should now focus on the two main issues, which I believe are priority issues. The first is the subject of Bavaria again. Negotiating or complaining! The capital replacement right shall be applicable and applied. And the second is – I said it before –: Join a private person! With independent experts, the private will evaluate the assets, buy the majority and then best deal with the bank. I hope he deserves a lot of money, because then the taxpayer also deserves something, and we could minimize the damage. Furthermore, in my opinion, the hypo disaster is an occasion for finally rehabilitating the system in our country. We need a reasonable federalism reform with clear responsibilities, especially as regards the use and spending of tax money. That can't be decoupled, then there's no clear responsibility. I say that we also need a clear separation of power, but not only between legislative, executive and judicial, but also between government and various interests and control bodies. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is very important, because in the end there are two more cases to be solved apart from the Hypo Alpe-Adria. The ÖVAG and the municipal credit are still ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11082	The next item is Mrs Mlinar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11103	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! The example of the Carinthian Hypo shows what we most need: We need to restore confidence, we really need more Europe, and above all we need more transparent controls. But let's start at the beginning, even if one or the other can't hear it anymore. Honestly, I'm giving up here: If I were to draw responsibility for this disaster, it would also rob me of sleep, it would break damn on my nerves. The history of Hypo Alpe-Adria has been working on us for some time now. About a decade ago, the so-called hypo system was installed. And as if that hadn't been bad enough, it has since been accompanied by intrusive action, inactivity and/or bird-strout policy, above all political control. The question is as follows: Where, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, have they been held accountable for the actions relating to the hypo in recent years? When have questions and fears been given an open and honest position accordingly? It is today, I believe, more or less the first time that we debate it in this hardness. This is not exactly what happened, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, you are the government, very likely with responsibility for what happened. Although it has long been clear that there is a lot in the arrogance, it is finally expected until the last moment. It was only shortly before the EU had made serious, only in 2013, that the competent minister in Brussels proposed a rescue plan, a so-called restructuring plan. It was only after a five-year period – we have heard this more often today – and after budget resources had been spent at around €4.8 billion! The question that the taxpayers and I, too, are finally asking is: What is it for? because, in view of the figures, facts and data that are now available to us, there can be no real bank rescue. But as always, there is here, in such a context, someone who does it, and someone who allows it. Unfortunately, we have still not managed to assign these roles clearly and dubiously. That is why we also demand from NEOS a very clear committee of inquiry on hypo in order to bring light into the dark with the help of this parliamentary instrument. I very much ask the members of the government to do nothing about it, because what has been produced here in the eyes of the competent authorities is, above all, also a deterioration of moral values, which follows the deterioration of the economy and the financial values. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] I and many people with whom we speak have been very impressed by the image that politicians and financial service providers have served for years at Hypo Alpe-Adria like a banker. This moral and economic decline will only be rebalanced with a considerable effort and clearly only at the expense of taxpayers. What remains, however, ladies and gentlemen, is a significant loss of trust, a loss of confidence in the government and in the entire Austrian political system. And this is a damage that is sustainable and that can only be compensated for by a real system change. This loss of confidence, which we are experiencing here at national level in a very narrow form, is obviously also projected on the institutions of the European Union. It is therefore also understandable that citizens become suspicious, if it is then called Profan, Brussels wants to take a closer look at national government budgets and, if necessary, be able to intervene regulatoryly. This is particularly suspicious when no one of the responsible, of the rulers, stands before people, has the courage to ask people and their questions and to explain why this is really necessary. But let's talk again briefly about trust in general. Trust and finance, this is a vital symbiosis, because a functioning financial economy is based only on one, and that is strong trust, because money is nothing but printed paper, no more and no less. All financial transactions, from savings deposits to loans to intergovernmental monetary transactions, only work and only if there is confidence. We must rebuild this confidence, but above all also confidence in politics. That is why it is up to us and to all those who have something to do with this, that we now think in parallel to the cleaning work, how it should continue. I hope we give the governor something like an advance confidence. We hope that the government will be able – unlike the past – to develop the ability to multitask. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The most important thing is that the solution of the hypo-alpe-Adria story is speedily driven forward. As we all know, we have a bank stress test in autumn, and it's better to be well prepared for it. Because what do we do when something gets wrong again? Then let's ask the taxpayers again to check out, or what plan do we have? According to the last Eurobarometer survey, the citizens in Austria are at least half convinced that we have survived the worst in terms of the financial crisis, but the top 3 designations are still located in the area of the economic situation. We must convince people that we must be able to convince them that politics has the reins again and that it is not dubious speculators juggling around with their money. Models and mechanisms of stabilizing the financial situation are now available. And so for some time at European level, we have had early warning systems, which include standards and criteria and can cause any misdevelopments to occur early and effective. What it needs here, and thus closes the circle, is confidence, confidence in politics and trust in the economy. And we need more Europe, a common one. Europe with truly transparent control mechanisms. We must finally get away from the crisis mode over the community of fate to the community of opportunities. As Lord This morning, we have already said the right thing, that European banking supervision is necessary and correct. We support this because we live in Europe and believe that this is the right way and the only one that can actually protect us from such crises in the future. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11197	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11219	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what Apperception refusal is? I hope you've read killers or Kant, or I'll just say, It's about refusing perception. – What the government has been doing for three years is simply refusing to understand and act on realities. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I don't know!]] Mrs. Minister, thank God you're welcome. Now I have the wonderful point of contact. Mrs. Minister! We Greens have already offered the shoulder closure very early in the banking crisis. We have jointly decided on a bank package, and then you have locked us out of the information. We were no longer involved, we were no longer involved in the various advisory activities that seemed to have taken place. I don't know if it really was. I can only read it. Mrs. Minister! I'd love to do it for you. I can only read in today’s – today’s Monday – “profile”. The current Mr. National Bank Director, Professor Dr. Novotny, repeatedly said that there were recommendations to the Ministry of Finance. However, the Ministry of Finance did not follow these recommendations. You've been using Apperception Refusal. You have the truth, you have not taken the facts into consideration, so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] They've run bird-strauss policy. You've told us here, you've told us many times on the government bank that you can't do Bad Bank now. We've always asked for a bathroom bank. You couldn't do Bad Bank, you told us here, although at the same time you said the hypo is a barrel without soil. - Original Fekter. They have recognized it: Hypo – Fass without soil. On the government bank you said: No Bad Bank, because we still have to wait until perhaps the economic upturn comes, until perhaps some of it separates itself until perhaps we come to new insights! Novotny requested it. This has requested it. Lover asked for it. They have all had the perception reality, they have perceived it. Only you put your head in the sand, made bird-strout policy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not true!]] I'm telling you exactly why. - Not for the taxpayer. You waited for the elections to pass. That's right! You have waited until the election date goes to the country, because before the election date a Bad Bank would have brought you a higher total debt of the Republic. That's the puddle core, why you didn't act. And your non-acting, your refusal to use the apportionment, is the result that all Austrians now have to put a billion more on the table, a billion more tax money has to be bleached because You did not act in time because you were simple and simply too cowardly and because you were different from your colleague Schäuble... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, really not!]] Mrs Fekter! I deliberately say it for the fifth time today, I think. Mrs Fekter! If you, with your colleague from the CDU, Mr. Schäuble of the Federal Republic of Germany, had been put together in good time, then you could have taken one. The Germans have dealt with: Hypo Real Estate, 176 billion misspectulations, a Low Saxon state bank that was insanely bankrupt. If you divide this through ten, then, as I mean, you come to the Hypo Alpe-Adria anyway, because the size of Austria is a tenth of that of Germany. This is about the same sum spent on the population. What did Scäuble do? - A bathroom bank immediately. They have installed the Bad Bank mechanism within one year. Mrs. Minister! And in between, exactly what you were afraid of has happened: The debt rate of the Federal Republic has increased. But that didn't do anything in the capital market. The German federal bonds have had a fixed ranking. They have even been drawn in an additional way. Why didn't you take the path of Schäuble? I'm asking you this for the third time. It was not only the Hypo Real Estate, it was also the West German Landesbank in Germany, which was converted into a Bad Bank, where the goods moved into the pot and the bad ones into the pot or vice versa the goods into the little pot. Scäuble has also intervened there, and there it has come to the best of the whole Republic. But in Austria, we have a system where banking, political supervision, political decision-making are always carried out under a spell and a felt, where there is no correct course of action, because politics concludes anyway: My goodness, it will pay the taxpayer anyway! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I protected the taxpayer, more than if we had done the Bad Bank!]] It's outrageous to all of us. I'm sorry, it's outrageous to you and that's especially outrageous to the people, because you're not acting in time because you're shivering to the next election date. I can prove this to you. I will ask privately, esteemed colleagues, why the Republic is often not acting in good time, from time to time, especially in the past. I did this – remember! – when the AUA disaster was. At AUA we have long said that a strategic partner is necessary, a stand-alone solution of AUA is no longer eligible for funding. Michaelis was with us, Wielsch was with us. We Greens have said: Strategic partners – 2001, 2002, 2003. The head of government, bowl, grass, Co: No, we need a red-white-red tail fin! – Now they still exist, although the AUA was taken over by Lufthansa. It was called: We can't answer that, strategic partner, no, thank you! That's what you've delayed until the year, I think, 2007 or 2008. Then we didn't win the strategic partner and cut in half a billion, as originally possible, no, you sold it and have to put half a billion on it. A billion has cost us the AUA because it's been towed because you haven't noticed in time because you've turned under the spell because you've concealed. We have the same knitting pattern. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS, as well as with members of the FPÖ.]] Because election was! I forgot. Because it was election date. And it's always the same felt in Austria. The next election will not be held in good time with Schielen. Figures may then be the taxpayers, we all, probably you least. That's my reason! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Now I'll tell you again: I also spoke to colleagues who are very experienced in financial policy, and I asked them why you do not act in good time, why it is not possible. They know each other very well. And what, do you think, did they answer me? I really talked to several. One said, even though he had been in Parliament for a long time, even though the Minister and so on: Yes, you know, sometimes I don't understand politics! – Let alone Are you eating off with such an answer? The other one said: You know, politics only thinks in a period of time! Mrs. Minister! Now we've got the shredder on. You thought in your period, 2008 to 2013. Numbers can now all of us, the families with 5 500. All of Innsbruck, we could, as it were, be equipped with condos. Any Innsbrucker/any Innsbrucker could get an apartment for the equivalent of the outstanding loans, i.e. these 19 billion that stand in the room where we hope it will be 10. That's the problem! There is a fundamental problem behind that: We have no insolvency right for banks in Austria. Unfortunately, we do not have an insolvency right for federal states either. We urgently need this like a piece of bread: finally, in accordance with the rule of law, the settlement of deeply indebted entities, deeply indebted institutions. But what you do is often this Arche Noah policy: They think only in a period of time, according to the motto: Behind us the flood! They get into the arche, and the taxpayers swoop. – That’s your way of acting! And we don't want to. Mrs Minister, you have at least often given a speech and an answer, I really have to admit to you, and I express my appreciation for that, compared with the current Minister of Finance, who does not even answer requests in urgent form correctly. That is why we need the Committee of Inquiry, not least because of that. Two ladies are now sitting on the government bank, and therefore my final sentence: We finally need statesmen and women again in Austria, but not statesmen, vulgo cowards, as it is now!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11335	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11357	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria continues to have very flexible financial economic data. Nevertheless, there are problems in many areas: the workers, the workers, the economy. The population suffers from the aftereffects of the last decade. Tax payers had to accept a number of disastrous events. Let me remind you of a few: BUWOG, 60,000 apartments were squandered, senseless privatizations, Telekom scandal, acquisition of the Eurofighters and, and, and. But what is the summit of responsibilitylessness? – Yes, the Hypo Alpe-Adria with the consequences of the hypo madness that affects the population at a sad record height. I assume that we are not going to deal with this issue for the last time today. We will have to feel the effects for many years to come. How did everything begin with which politicians, and with which party was this politician inseparable? - Right, Jörg Haider with the FPÖ. Let me remind you of some of the statements made by the then Carinthian head of state: “The company will certainly experience a significant increase in value and the country of Carinthia will win again.” – That was three days after the contractually sealed sale of the hypo-majority to the BayernLB. Or: “There is no investment bank that has not already congratulated us.” Or: “I stand at what I do and whoever goes through the country today with open eyes and ears sees that what I do is right.” Or: “We will invest the lion share of hypo millions for the coming generations. We act in a sustainable way in the sense of the young people of this country and show a wide view.” Sustainability is contrary to the intentions, I suppose, now bitterly safeguarded. And a special point landing made Gerhard Dörfler with his statement – by the way, he is still active politicians –: “Historical success has been ours.” What has happened in recent years? – The then Carinthian head of state has practised the principle of grandeur. The country of Carinthia has taken over billions of bonds. The liability commissions were presented as a bomb business. The management of the hypo has been credited to the Balkans in a unique way, and in Carinthia itself, summaries have flowed into the financing of prestige projects, without control. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Where are the summaries? Count up!]] But now the courts are dealing with it anyway. There have already been convictions. Bank management failed. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. The hypo-debakel was caused by the FPÖ with willing handrails! [[Abg. May. Darmann: Count the projects!]] It's been a lot of time. On the present solution scenarios, there are expert opinions on this. It is clear that the primary responsibility for overall stability is not the firing of rapid fires. The aim is to protect taxpayers as best as possible. The profiters have to be taken to the sight. A mass tax increase does not come into question. What we're increasing is the bank levy. The decision will be taken here next week. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These proposals for solutions seem plausible to me. However, it is now important to try to minimise the impact on taxpayers. I would have expected more of the opposition than I had. Where are concrete proposals for solutions, particularly from the producer party, from the FPÖ? - I don't see her. [[Abg. May. Kogler: More than you brought in!]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11430	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11451	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! There have already been many concepts today, including the word “responsible”, and in the word “responsible” I would like to join. Yes, of course, we have a great responsibility to the taxpayer, to the citizen and to our whole country. And that's what it's all about! Mr Klubobmann Strolz is not here now, but if he likes to get close to the Economic Federation, I have to say quite honestly: The hundred days are over now! I really want to distance myself from his statements, because this populist pitcher vulture action he has delivered here today, I can only honestly call it credit and rating harmful. I think that is not in the sense of Austria's economic and financial location, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Secondly, I would also like to stress: If he compares himself with our Minister of Finance in competence, I know there is a winner. We do not need to hide this competition in any way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And as a third party, I still note: It is also very courageous to compare Austria's financial and economic policy with that of Greece. Greece has olive oil, but we have hundreds of thousands of hard-working entrepreneurs with their employees, who make sure that this economic location works so well every day, and I would like to say thank you for that. I don't want to throw them into a pot with the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I could give Mr Strolz a little inspiration: Serious economic policy is probably a little different than talking to shamans in the forest, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kogler, one thing I have to say to you, only briefly: You've already made a hundred percent turnaround. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No!]] I would also like to distance myself from Mrs Moser's statements today, because our Minister for Finance is anything but a coward. She bravely fought for the Bavaria to be back, she reduced a third of the assets, and after all, we reduced the liability from 24 billion to 12.5 billion. That's still a lot. But still: Thank you for your commitment, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And at the turn of the day, Mr Kogler: You did last year, more precisely on 17. May, in the “Mitagsjournal” still said: Now is certainly the best – “the best”, you have said! – to create a law that we create a so-called Bad Bank, either one for all problems or separate. In any case, that is even missing, so that we can get out of here with as little loss as possible for taxpayers. Today you say something completely different. So a straight line also looks a little different, ladies and gentlemen! And where are we today? I think it must be in the interest of Jacob Auer has already said it – of all of us. The liberals claim they were never there, they don't know Jörg Haider and so on. [[Abg. May. Fuckin' shit!]] That's incredible, too. I think we really need to create this common shoulder closure. Even if I don't support the BayernLB process, don't rush, I have to say: One thing Bavarian policy has done: She has sat down and has seen that there is a common political shoulder closure! The Bayern also have great problems, I have already said it. In this case, however, the parties have long recognized that a public discussion, in which every detail is eaten, reduces assets and thus damages the bank and ultimately the country. And that's something we all probably don't want together. The debtors are supposed to look for the prosecutors. The guilty shall receive their just punishment in court. We can clarify the political responsibility after the banking crisis. I believe that now we are doing the best we can for this location Austria, for people in this country, for entrepreneurs and for jobs, that is to say, the taxpayer pays as little as possible. That should be our mission, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I myself come from a federal country, where we also have a large financial hole today due to the failure of a SPÖ head of state with its financial reference. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, eh!]] [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: Where?]] And in Carinthia, we as ÖVP have not held the main responsibility either, ladies and gentlemen. But one thing Carinthia and Salzburg have in common: In both federal states, the ÖVP must now see that they are re-ejecting the soup that the others have incubated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Salzburg the head of state is Haslauer, and at the federal level it is Fekter and now Spindelegger. That means we just have to make black numbers out of this red balance sheet. This is the mission to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] That's why I finally appeal to everyone: I think we should see together that we are getting a solution to this financial crisis, because, as politicians, we have this responsibility for our country, for the location and also for the people! That's why I can only say: Austria first!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11595	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11616	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors on the ranks! ==References== December 2009 is a black day in the financial history of the Republic of Austria: This is because the former Finance Minister Pröll bought the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank to say and write 4 €. In order to deceive the population about the actual circumstances of this nationalization, this process was referred to by the Federal Government as an emergency nationalization. In reality, however, it was a nationalization that took place without need. Why, then, did Minister of Finance Pröll get over the table from Bavaria? – The backgrounds should be clarified in a committee of inquiry, and the government will have good reasons why it does not want to clarify here. Due to the nationalization, huge costs incurred by the huge expansion rate of Bavaria were shifted to the Austrian taxpayers. Was the then Minister of Finance Pröll aware of these risks? Did Pröll arrange a due diligence test or did he get the hypo hanged by the Bavaria without further examination? Why did then Minister of Finance Pröll actually grant the BayernLB a say in the further action of the Republic of Austria with the hypo? Who were the profiters of the nationalization of the hypo next to the BayernLB? It is also necessary to investigate the suspicions that the former Minister of Finance Pröll only wanted to protect his current employer Raiffeisen. – These are, among other things, the questions to which the Austrian taxpayer would like to know an answer! A committee of inquiry seems to me to be the appropriate means of doing so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The head of the IHS Keussnigg also held in yesterday’s ORF “press hour” that the government had misnegotiated in the nationalisation of the hypo. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not at all!]] If there had been no nationalisation, the damage would have been compensated by the BayernLB or the Free State of Bavaria and not by the Austrian taxpayer. But there's not just a story before the 14th. December 2009, but also after that: The Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank has been preserved in billions with several capital increases, consultants have dropped millions for their activities – over 300 million – and it has been wasted a lot of valuable time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the last four years, the Federal Government has failed to develop a viable plan to deal with the hypo-Alpe-Adria. Why has the now favorite, very expensive solution for the state been dragged away for four years? Where was the supervision? Are now actually consequences from OeNB and FMA's supervisory failure? - No, on the contrary! The OeNB mixes at the front in the resolution, although we now also know that the OeNB as a bank auditor is completely inappropriate. Her 2008 test report, which has certified a largely adjusted credit portfolio and missed the “not destressed” predicate, is a classic case of total failure. Has policy exerted pressure on the OeNB at that time? And what does the government do? – This one adheres to the hypo-renewal proposals of the hypo-taskforce, which include representatives of the OeNB and the FMA and which always rejects the insolvency of the hypo categorically. Why is that not a possible variant for Liebscher and Novotny? There must be no bans on thinking here. According to Wyman Report, insolvency would be the cheapest solution. Since the start of the financial crisis, the Americans have had more than 500 banks pleaded without anything even happening. In Lithuania too, the third largest bank has slid into the pleite without changing Lithuania’s rating. And in Iceland, in the past, one has also decided to make banks plead. In Austria too, there have already been bank pleas. I remember Rieger Bank, the discount bank and the Graz BHI. Why is insolvency not a verifiable variant? I ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Ask the suggestions of your task force and use independent experts to review the insolvency scenario! I definitely don't have any confidence in this task force anymore. Who would actually make a hypo plea? – In particular, the foreign banks, insurance companies, speculators and funds that in the past bought the mortgage bonds at a spot price. One speaks of 20 to 30 percent of the nominal value. That means that they would say and write 70 to 80 percent profit, and that without risk. Not with us, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will do everything we can to protect the taxpayers of the Republic from such speculators who are always trying to frighten us with the rating. The US rating agency Moody’s has massively reduced the mortgage credit rating last week, and the taxpayer must become red with anger when he hears the justification of the downturn. In the current discussion on the Bank’s future, the possibility had been discussed and was not finally excluded from the fact that bond owners are not fully protected in this process, according to Moody’s. – Where are we? I am not so concerned about the protection of creditors, but rather about the protection of Austrian taxpayers. The creditors are not worthy investors, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, because they did not buy well-belief at the time. The population is now likely to have a huge tax wave. ==References== In March 2014, the 2014 ‘Debursement Package’ will enter into force, we may be excited to see what fiscal horrors will come into force with the 2014 Budgetary Tax Act. According to rumors, the inheritance and gift tax is to be reintroduced by accident. The FPÖ is clear: Firstly, we want a committee of inquiry on hypo-nationalisation. Secondly, the Minister of Finance should put all the facts on the table so that we can make a decision on this information basis. And thirdly, we speak for the cheapest solution for the taxpayer and not for the cheapest solution for the banks. And if the cheapest solution for the taxpayer is the insolvency of the hypo, we will also make ourselves strong for this variant.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11686	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11707	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have received numerous calls in recent days, where I was asked to do something to legally examine the matter. One of them said I'm supposed to get out of the angry lawyer. I've never met the people's pride as openly as I have in the past days – even in clear circles of the population. Indeed, even some columnists have called the willingness to resist tax particularly in these times when the government is calling for the unrivalled waste of money. Mr Haubner spoke of a financial crisis earlier. And the words “fatal effects ” have also fallen in the words of our president at the outset. We are in a really serious situation without being allowed to look back, so, of course, the past is important. But I say again what I said in my first speech: While we are here exercising our right to indignation, the State Bank is being emptied in a large way. If we look for the cause of the disaster, we will find it very quickly. It was politicians who interfered in the banking landscape. The first act of tragedy has begun by the federal state of Carinthia taking over the liability for the liabilities of Hypo Alpe-Adria. In the second act of tragedy, the Federal Government has nationalized the Hypo Alpe-Adria – as we know, after a lot of nightly pressure. And now in the third act of tragedy the so-called establishment solution is to come. The Krux is that politicians believe in the all-power of the state: The state can do anything, and politicians can do anything with the state. The political statement of faith reads as follows: I spend foreign money, that's why I'm good! And the more foreign money I spend, the better I am! – This mentality begins with free provision facilities and ends with any banking interests! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A Free Kindergarten...!]] In my world, it's not all right to spend money you don't have, whatever you want to do good for it. Whoever comes into liability, which is never feasible, is guilty. This also applies to participation inpleite banks. I believe that it is time and again necessary to explain to the government parties that this socialist model of spending on money has failed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But the 2008 banking crisis was also a crisis of private banks!]] The state is not there to save banks. He's not here to disturb the market. He's not here to make people happy. He is not there to create paradise on earth. We must get rid of this mentality of the authority of the state. And that also applies now where it is thought to commit the mistake of “too much state in the economy ” once again. It is not just a crisis of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. This is a crisis attributed to all parties involved in SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ. If the state agencies are to blame each other, it seems simple and simple. In a functioning market economy, there is a need for pleasurable banks. That's so simple! This does not necessarily require a separate insolvency right for banks. A legal system with which one can deal with the Alpine bankruptcy is equally appropriate to deal with a bank bankruptcy. And with a little will for legal progress, it is probably also suitable to deal with the bankruptcy of a federal country. In a way, we have developed into the naïves of economic history in recent years. This is about as follows in Austria: There's a scandal somewhere. Politics, the public and the prosecutors shoot the Bude stormy. Finally, a foreign player undertakes the company. That was the case at the BAWAG, that was the case with the MEL, and I am afraid that this could happen at the present time at Telekom. And finally, we have the Hypo Alpe-Adria, where we are about not only to lose one company, but to open the entire state bank through this institution solution. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen, that we develop a counter-strategy here in the interests of this country. The establishment solution tries to resolve the crisis with its cause, namely with “more state”. I end up here with a modified quote, if I have it right in my head, by Karl Kraus: More State is exactly the disease for which it considers itself to be therapy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11775	The next item is the speech by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11797	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Transparency is necessary, Enlightenment is necessary. This also concerns the business documents of Hypo Alpe-Adria. There is a 7-year retention period. We want to make sure that there are no documents that we need to clarify. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have another motion for a resolution that we want to put forward. Why? – Because we know that the hypo task force will come up with a very specific solution, namely the establishment solution. The imagination is only enough for one variant with the experts of the Federal Government. Let's help him out a little. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations with the hypo-Alpe-Adria's creditors, which should make their fair contribution here. Motion for a resolution by Dr Hable, Members of Parliament, on the opening of Haircut & Conversion negotiations with the creditors of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, are invited to negotiate with the holders of the bonds secured by the Kärntner Landeshaftung in the event of a decision on the further operation with regard to Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. In particular, a debt reduction, extended maturity of the debt securities and reduced interest rates should be applied. In return, a security can be offered by the federal government.” Besides, you can also read nothing else in the Wyman paper. I have to say: Today's contribution to the debate on the part of the government has not been very generous. The answer to the questions was not very fruitful either. We're as smart as before. I would therefore like to take another point which has been annoying me for a long time, and that is the number of damage that has been mentioned. Today, the Minister of Finance has again put a potential damage of €19 billion into space. [[State Secretary Mag. Danning: No!]] And it's amazing what you see when you take a look at the balance sheet. I have taken this balance sheet, which by the way is public, not like some things that will be kept in the drawer. A consolidated balance sheet can always be viewed publicly. In this balance sheet we can read that the volume of open loans is €24 billion. I emphasize: 24 billion €! One thing has to be clear: The damage – once you look away from equity – can never be greater than the outstanding credit volume. Now the outstanding credit volume is €24 billion, and the damage sum is to be €13 to 19 billion. [[State Secretary Mag. Steßl: No, these are the balance sheets!]] In any case, the default rate should be more than 50 percent. So more than 50 percent of the requirements of Hypo Alpe-Adria are scrap, infallible. That is, more than any second project, which has been financed, has failed economically – not only economically, but also unsecured! That's where people wonder who's supposed to believe that. Not even the largest scrap banks have had such a high failure rate. But as we know, the insolvency proposed by international experts as the cheapest variant is still not considered. This does not work and would be very bad, say the experts from the Hypo Task Force, because that would lead to a loss of trust, investors could be very quickly unrounded if the risk were to hit. Investors in risk papers – and bonds are risk papers – could be unrounded if they still have to bear this risk! Where we're going is the argument. Secondly, the cost of financing has been affected. I have to say quite honestly: I too can hardly follow this argument. The argument is: If we do not choose the establishment solution, then quickly the cost of financing, the interest we pay for our public debt, to the level. Mr Krainer spoke of, I think, €2.7 billion a year. We need to keep that up and think about it. That is, if we transfer the entire burden of losses to taxpayers, to our state budget, then the whole thing should be cheaper, but if we follow the insolvency variant, in the course of which others also carry the costs, then at once we would go up our burden, then we would pay more interest, then we have damaged our reputation and our trust? So, honestly, I can't follow this bill. It actually puts every logic on the head. The third point, which was mentioned why one cannot pursue insolvency, is the hypo-enforcement association. The mortgage Alpe-Adria has issued bonds worth €1.2 billion through the mortgage office of the Landes-Hyptokenbanken, and the sister banks are responsible for this. – I wonder: Where's the problem? For a liability is there the bond of liability! If the liability of the bond is not to occur in the case of liability, then I do not need the bond of liability at all. So here, too, I don't see the problem. All in all, however, we probably already have a problem with the country-hypos. The problem is not limited to Carinthia – we have heard it today; the problem of Carinthia was probably the biggest and by far the most absurd – but we have the problems in all the federal states. 35 billion € – and there is not included in Carinthia – the country's liability for the Land-Hypos. 35 billion € without Carinthia! [[Abg. Themessl: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Proposal! Your proposal!]] That is, without the support of the federal government, no one federal state could wear a pleite of its respective hypo. So the conclusion is: All national leaders in all countries have used their country-hypos as an expensive way of playing to finance their favorite projects. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is only luck to say that in 2003, the European Court of Justice declared these national liabilitys, which are the liability of the countries to be inadmissible. It is clear how well Austria is doing in the European Union, because there is at least pressure for reforms from there. At least there is pressure to break up the party policy felt in Austria, and this is urgently necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11908	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Hable are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e11994	Next speaker: Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12015	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I'm new here in the high house, and yes, I'm shocked – shocked by the huge scale of the hypo-debakel, but much more shocked by the behaviour of the FPÖ. The FPÖ is here today as a lifeguard, as a fireman – but they are exactly those people who have laid this fire! What we need to discuss today is the hypo system. The history of Hypo Alpe-Adria International is originally a history of soccer, speculators, capital management errors and failure of auditors and supervisory councils. That's what we all have to do now, so to speak. [[Abg. Themessl: Accept the U Committee!]] I admit that the situation surrounding the bank and the various legal disputes is extremely complicated, not only for the ordinary citizen, but also for our experts, of whom you hear something else every day. Therefore, what we need to trust in and also trust is that the currently responsible will do their best to find a way out of this mess. But again and again we come back to the basic problem, and this is the immense system of billions of liability, with which the then head of state Haider and ex-Hypo-Chair Cultererer led the bank to the uncontrolled expansion and thus ultimately to ruin. These liabilities literally mean hostagey – hostagey for the Republic of Austria, hostagey for the country of Carinthia, for us Members and last but not least of course for taxpayers. On the weekend, the “Small Newspaper” described the history of the hypo as the history of the seven deadly sins, characterized by greed, haughtiness and selfishness. A blue Kärntner state government under the head of state Haider has established a system with Kulterer, Berlin and Co, in which the bank of Haider has obtained a guarantee certificate for highly risky business and, in return, has been refinanced for Haider as well as dubious business. I just want to address the Wörthersee Stadium, the Seebühne, the football club and much more. [[Abg. Podgorschek: You were there at the opening too!]] Some things are already being prepared by the courts, but one does not get the feeling that this is just the tip of the iceberg. Let us hope that the hypo disaster does not reach this huge billion height that is currently being discussed. And we also hope that with a proper, transparent settlement and also with the development of responsibilities, it will not be possible to continue the damage to the riverless. Only a few really have the overview, and the currently responsible certainly do their best. Jörg Haider said something that has already been quoted today: “We will invest the lion share of hypo millions for the coming generations. We act in a sustainable way in the sense of the young people of this country and show a wide view.” – That’s why Carinthia will become rich. Obviously, this sentence has not been formulated. It would have to be called today: Carinthia is becoming rich in debt – and so is the Republic of Austria. One, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly not allow: We will not allow employees to stand for what the FPÖ originally caused in Carinthia. We will bring those responsible to the curtain. We will work on it for so long until we have properly worked it out and put those responsible in court and also take responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12104	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12125	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Federal Chancellor Werner Faymannand Deputy Minister of Finance Michael Spindelegger today presented the situation, the possible resolution scenarios and the further procedure in their statement on Hypo Alpe-Adria. Many of my previous speakers – more or less correct or wrong – have presented the view of their parties more or less emotionally. I just want to say that it should be our common concern – yes, must be, ladies and gentlemen! . to focus our activities in the High House on the fact that the hypo-debakel, which the President of the Federal Republic has not rightly called a budgetary disaster, is not exclusively due to taxpayers, although – as much honesty is also appropriate – it will not go without burdens on citizens. Although our Finance Minister Michael Spindelegger has now announced that over the next few weeks the Task Force will present concrete basis for further decisions on the possible settlement solution, I would like to refer to the cause, but above all to those who cause it, which can be found, of course, in the political field, but also in the banking sector in Carinthia. Hohes Haus, the Hypo Alpe-Adria was a state bank that was instrumentalized for the increase of fame, election finance and self-service for a variety of purposes – for example, major events have already been mentioned – by then head of state Haider. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Balkan Mafia!]] It must also be admitted, however, that the bankers have been very instrumentalised. It has been expanded into the Balkans with national liabilities in an incredible order of magnitude – the twelvefold of the national budget – without regard to the risks to foreign countries. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Simply said for all of us: Speculations without end and casino capitalism were practised almost daily by the Carinthian authorities in politics and banking. The demand of our Minister of Finance is more than comprehensible, that of course we also take the country of Carinthia into responsibility and demand a corresponding contribution – of course! Because today the emergency state was so often addressed: Yes, this emergency brake – the emergency nationalization in 2009 – had to be pulled. In the context of the economic and financial crisis, the euro was in a particularly difficult phase and the Hypo Alpe-Adria was qualified by the Austrian National Bank with reference to the ECB and the EU Commission as a system relevant not only for Austria but also for the south-eastern European area. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, vice versa! The Commission referred to the National Bank!]] At the time, the stability of the euro had the highest priority. The Federal Government was one-way from the Federal Chancellor for this solution of emergency nationalization. The aptity of the hypo, ladies and gentlemen, would have had inevitable consequences, for who still believes in a federal country or a state on which promises and guarantees cannot be trusted? If today our former Minister of Finance Fekter has been addressed several times – in other words, it has actually been mistreated – I would also like to say: Maria Fekter was the one who brought the Bavarian Landesbank back into the boat in her term of office. It was she who looked and sought that these €2.5 billion loans do not go to Bavaria, but remain here as equity in the bank. [[Abg. New builder: Power's nail with heads!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Michael Spindelegger has been since 16. He was appointed Minister of Finance of December 2013, and a month later he had the Task Force present the report. 20 models have been and will be tested. Four were on the agenda, now there are three. I am convinced that Michael Spindelegger will be the best here – not the cheapest, the best! – for taxpayers. At this time, I hope we all agree, there is no one who can say what payments and charges are on taxpayers. This requires even more detailed investigations and more accurate figures. It's clear, too, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The hysteria and the outside calls are now not in demand, but well thought out concepts – and Michael Spindelegger and his team are working on them. The task is very difficult, but I say it is soluble!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12203	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12224	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the gallery and at home on the screens! Time is money, ladies and gentlemen, but if we look at the theme of Hypo, it probably was better: Time would have been money that could have saved taxpayers, this federal government would not have used the last four years to point its fingers at any person or political force in that country, but to actually make every effort to clean this bank up this issue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This was also a matter of open communication, because if we are dealing with this topic so extensively here and today, then there are essentially three themes to be illuminated: on the one hand, the time before sale to Bavaria, on the other hand, the time when Bavaria had the majority ownership of the hypo, and on the third, the time after the nationalization. If we look at the time before we sell to Bavaria, then I am looking for my colleague Knes from the beautiful Lavant valley in Carinthia, who just before he spoke again with debt allocations towards the liberals and has forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, that in 1990 under a SPÖ financial officer Rauscher was born the idea of country liability to the hypo. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: He has reported facts!]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] In the Kärntner Landtag, the vote on this has also taken place. Zum Secondly, he hoped, with all his criticism of the liability for this hypo, that his head of state and party of SPÖ Carinthia, Dr. Peter Kaiser, his deputy head of state from SPÖ, Dr. Schaunig-Candut, and also the State Councillor of SPÖ Prettner, who all voted in 2004 for an extension of this liability, immediately declared their resignation and resigned from the party, ladies and gentlemen, for that would be the consequence of a federal SPÖ, which would also demand from his party colleagues in Carinthia: [[new Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ]] To take responsibility for this, if you are looking for it alone with a political group, namely my group, and if you are still not afraid of it, ladies and gentlemen, you can threaten the deceased head of state Dr. Jörg Haider, blaming him and unloading all the blame on him, who, as the only one, can no longer speak and defend himself here. This is last-class, ladies and gentlemen, and when I say “estimated”, those who are in fact also aware of my appreciation of who is meant to be. All the others should go into this matter and consider whether this is the right way to make politics in Austria: get rid of someone who can't defend himself, but even sit up in the dirt and share this debt, ladies and gentlemen. If we look at the subject of Hypo, I am surprised that no one thinks of red and black as just in the approach to going deeper in the time of the BayernLB, to dig deeper there, to look at what these bank managers and, above all, the head of the BayernLB in Bavaria, together with the Minister of Finance of Bavaria Fahrenschon, did at the time in the business and corporate philosophy, namely an extreme expansion of the hypo as a German, as a Bavarian bank in the time of 2007 – the sale to the nationalization – an expansion that ultimately resulted in it – and this also belongs to a stone and clear – that the risks have increased exorbitantly. Finally, the bulwark on the i of this scandal, we have with the valuable government team behind me, just a little expanded – colleagues Pröll, Fekter, Spindelegger, as they all are called, including State Secretary, then co-signor, who is now Clubman of SPÖ; and therefore it is not surprising that SPÖ is against an investigation committee – all a German bank with Austrian tax money nationalized. More than that, we are sold – both Members of Parliament and taxpayers alike – that over the last four years the time has been used to minimize the damage and risk. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, consider the national bank's statement at that time in 2009, the damage or risk is estimated at €2 billion, and now after four years of comprehensive productivity – I call it a standstill in the area of mortgage – the government itself speaks of €16 to €19 billion in damages! [[State Secretary Mag. Steßl: No, that's the balance sheet sum!]] Is this a reduction of the risk, a reduction of the damage? I don't think so. As the taxpayer, who will eventually also pay for the fact that we have nationalized a German bank with Austria, the taxpayer will come to the handcushion and will also sell for stupid. This is not the case in this way, ladies and gentlemen, all the less so with regard to Mr Spindelegger's statement, who said this morning in the debate that it is now necessary to make a decision to minimize the damage. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, why is it now necessary to decide? Already in 2009, after the nationalization – and in the best case there would have been no nationalization at all – it should have been decided to avert the comprehensive damage that now strikes the population, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger, when he said today, had to be decided once. Yes, what was going on with his colleagues? What about Mr Fekter and Mr Pröll in this questionable and challenging decision on the nationalization of the mortgage bank in the future of our country? That is why the Conlusio – and this has already been said several times by some Members of Parliament even from the government groups – is: A committee of inquiry must be here! Enlightenment belongs here! Enlightenment is the highest principle, ladies and gentlemen, for whoever else, if not the taxpayers, deserves to be brought into the dark here once, that political responsibility is clarified in addition to judicial, legal responsibility and that it is made clear which personalities have influenced this nationalization, who have been the beneficiaries of this nationalization of a German bank by the Republic of Austria, which advisers for what performance have received almost €400 million in the last four years, which has only maximized the damage?- Oh, my God! These are all the questions that need to be clarified, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I have to say one more thing, because it is important to me – that is my final sentence –: [[President Head gives the bell sign]] In your discussions, ladies and gentlemen, please take into account that there is a hypo Austria in Carinthia, which is constantly drawn into this confusion and into this mess, a bank that has been operating positively for years, writes successfully black numbers and guarantees a good future. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:11]] [[14:11:10]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12317	I announce that the Members of Parliament Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure have requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political responsibility in connection with the operations relating to Hypo Alpe-Adria. Hiezu is also the one of five delegates according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. Since the subject-matter of this request for the establishment of an investigation committee is similar to those already in place, I will, in agreement with the applicants, proceed in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases, namely that the applications are first justified in the order of submission and then the debate is carried out under one. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the votes, as already announced, take place after completion of the agenda. For the sake of freedom of movement, I believe that, especially for the honourable Member, Mr Höbart, the speaking time of the FPÖ club is already exhausted and that this word should therefore be deleted. The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12359	Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV devices! Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! – The new Frank, very funny, thank you! I've heard. [[Call the FPÖ: The new Frank!]] – I am glad that on my first day in the House I have the opportunity to speak here, and I am glad that there are still a few Members left here, this is not an essential issue: the hypo-pile. Obviously, many Members are not worthy of sitting here, according to the motto “I am gone then” and prefer to have a coffee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What is this about in Parliament? What's this about in the high house? Is there just a change of political change here? Or do the protagonists in this House really want to continue a little bit, say: the hypo-Alpe-Adria pleas really do not remain - for the benefit of the citizens in this country? The central questions not only I have asked myself over and over again in the last few days and weeks, but also many Austrians, as I believe, are as follows: Why did it even get that far? Why does the National Council today have to devote itself to this subject, the hypo plea, in its own special session? And: Why does the taxpayer have to swallow the whole crotch? It can't be! Why did none of the political leaders ever pull the line when the alarm bells already shrieked and all the lights lighted brightly? My questions arise from the viewpoint of a taxpayer. Who didn't do his job right here? Relationship: Why wasn't the job done? And: Why do you fight against a U-committee that might bring light into the dark? It usually says yes: Don't look for the guilty, solve the problem! But in this case, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to find and account for the guilty. Only as an example, because it is so significant for the current ruling system in Austria: How can it be that a financial market supervision prefers to pursue a forest-fourthly-shoe until excess, than to sit the hypo-sockers in the neck? [[Abg. Rädler: You know that, though, why?- Oh, my God!]] How can it be that in recent years the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank has always cried out the loudest “Here!” when it came to highly speculative business, while other banks, representatives of banks have long withdrawn and said: Hands off! Too risky! One fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone who has this hypo-pile of dirt has to be put into duty – and also has to bear the consequences, without When and But: the Bavaria, the Carinthia, the old owners, the big investors, all the excavators to be picked up with our tax money now. I personally lack the understanding that we should pay for it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One thing I wonder if I spend the first day here in the high house today: What normal people in this country, after such a pleite, should still have confidence in politics in the acting politicians? – If we don't make a cut here in this causa and say quite clearly: Stop, that's not how it goes!, let's make ourselves a mockery of the entire population in Austria! The meaning of politics, as I understand it, is to simplify people's lives and not to bind them with a load package, one after another, and to owe our children and children to decades. It can't be! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is clear that this hypo-plate now requires the expertise of independent experts who are not wrapped in ropes or who are delivered with any clientele interests. Only in this way will politics regain its credibility. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Nor should we forget that politicians must be held responsible, ladies and gentlemen, if they are carried out by a grossly negligent or guilty breach of duty. It can't be that you're a politician at the end of the day and you say: Sorry, wasn't that planned! Now we have to look for the gentlest variant for the taxpayer! Try You say this once in real life, in the private sector, to the banker of your trust: This month I'm not paying back the loan! – You will see what will come in response. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let us take this plea to establish a new political understanding in Austria! People in this country are increasingly losing confidence in their politicians, in us. Go out to the people, explain to the people the pleite and explain to them why it has come so far! I would like more Members of Parliament to be present in the House, not only during the ORF television season, but also after 2 p.m., because I believe that the citizens deserved to be discussed here with coram publico. 183 Members – they all get a salary for it, they have the duty to be here and ask themselves the questions! Let me conclude by saying: A committee of inquiry is urgently needed in order to bring real light into the dark and to clarify everything perfectly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12445	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled by Mr Ertlschweiger are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12533	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12556	Mr President. Estimated State Secretary! Mrs Schittenhelm has previously been protecting herself from the Minister outside the Fekter Service, and this honors the colleague because Maria Fekter was certainly not solely responsible for the destruction of the desert and I am sure that her party observer knew what game is being played there. And here I come to the point that I'm pessimistic: If he has known that and yet he himself is involved in the Ministry of Finance and does not let Fekter bubble the soup, then, I fear, now someone is responsible for the finances that are subject to a gross misevaluation. But even more fierce was what Federal Chancellor Faymann gave the best in the early days, for: What does he learn from the hypo disaster? - He doesn't learn anything, right? [[Abg. Neubauer: Nothing!]] You're saying it right. It calls for greater regulation of financial markets. I'll beg you! - I beg you, too. [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary of State Mag. Steßl.]] [[State Secretary Mag. Steßl: You can ask me quietly!]] – Yes, but you can listen to me as well, instead of thrice! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] A regulation of the financial markets will be implemented. With what you've been working around in the Banking Act in recent years and months, strangle the small regional banks and play it in the direction that at the end there are only large clogs that are all too big to fail. This is what you are fabricating with your overregulation of the financial markets. If there really is something to learn, then that: It's got to get the policy out of the banks! Why does a country have a bank at all? And you can see it not only at the hypo in Carinthia, you can see it in Lower Austria as well, and you can see it at the hypo in Tyrol. We also saw it in the municipal credit. That's how it works: If the game goes well, then we are happy because money is washed into the cash registers, and if it goes badly, then we simply turn the losses over to the general public. Then the Federal Chancellor said and was supported by the financial spokesman Krainer: The banking sector is supposed to pay! So first of all: The banking sector is paying the highest bank tax in Europe. And second: What logic is your requirement? – That would be like having SPAR and BILLA paid for the consumer plea. How do healthy banks get to pay what others have broken in Carinthia? It has been called for more often today: Why is there not an orderly insolvency of the Carinthian Hypo? Vice chancellor Spindelegger has said that in Germany the banks have not been allowed to plead either. – Yes, but of course you could also look at Iceland, Estonia and Ireland, and then you have a nice comparison. In Ireland, the non-placing loss of broken banks has resulted in the end of the state being broken, and in Iceland and Estonia, depending on the size of the cases, it has gone relatively well and was quickly over. Why do you still stand up to an orderly insolvency of the hypo? – It is quite clear that the hypo-inhibition association must not come to the train, there is Raiffeisen behind it because of the hypo in Upper Austria, Salzburg and Styria. And Raiffeisen, Mr Auer, is well represented in the ÖVP ranks, as nothing will happen. [[Abg. Auer: Thank God!]] Then there is the head of the state of Lower Austria, who also has a hypo, and if that came to the handcushion in the association of liability, his pyramid play in Lower Austria would probably also go up. That's why all of this must not happen. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now we come to the question put by Klubobmann Schieder: How can the bond believers be used? – Of course, I cannot use the creditors if there is a guarantee in the background, namely the country of Carinthia. This can only be done if the guarantee can become insolvent, then I can also “pull” the creditors. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We need to learn something, and something we need to learn from the cases is an insolvency right for local authorities.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12680	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12754	Next speaker: Mr Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e12775	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! On a long discussion day, many things are spoken here, and not everything remains the test of the truth. If Mr Hable turns out here and places 24 billion euros of credit in the balance sheet, then that may be right, but not all these 24 billion are lazy loans. The fact is, € 13 billion to € 19 billion is that part of the balance sheet amount that could be outsourced to the Bad Bank. It is not permissible to claim that they are written down with zero. In a Bad Bank one will perform the most resource-efficient execution of these assets, and only in the final bill can one say how this actually works. At present, this is not to be estimated with seriosity, but with professional processing by specialists in a Bad Bank, the aim is to improve the result as much as possible, as the example of commercial credit also shows. We assume a maximum damage of four to six billion. One more word on Mr Darmann. For the audience: Mr Darmann, this is the one with the overwhelming concept of democracy, which, as a clubman of the FPK in Carinthia, has left the Landtagskaal with his club thirteen times, in order to prevent a vote on new elections. This is also a special way of exercising political responsibility. I would like to tell you, not the idea of taking responsibility for companies, is objectionable, but the way it is often shamelessly exploited. [[Abg. Pendl: I think so too!]] The idea of inventing dynamite had Alfred Nobel. He didn't think of it being used for military purposes. The idea of invention was not bad – how to use it or abuse it is bad. So don't make the councillor Rauscher responsible for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What was best given by the liberals today is so according to the motto “Hold the thief!” because the processes around the Hypo Alpe-Adria are more than in need of information. [[Abg. New builder: Who is the thief?]] First, risky business, crazy growth and hardly any tests. Those who have lost credit have gone to the hypo and have been served there. Second: It was called ‘financial crime’. Yes, but the free politicians should perhaps take their own noses and see if they weren't there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] The third thing: The hypo was the financier of Jörg Haider's casino. You've been used like a banker. [[Abg. New builder: Where? Where?]] – Well, stadium, Formula 1 projects and much more. [[Abg. New builder: That's where you've been serving?]] And the fourth is the Carinthian monetary needle, which has earned hundreds of millions, tax-free. The mother-in-law of a Minister of Finance and the former President of the Industrial Union were also likely to be present. Ladies and gentlemen! Mismanagement and reckless exploitation have led the bank to stand as it stands now. And what has been given by you here, by some FPÖ owners for the best, that is child-moving! It's child-bearing! Not the emergency nationalization was responsible for the fact that today it is the way it is – and I say something to you – but these irresponsible politicians of FPÖ, BZÖ, FPK or whatever, who have entered state liability in peak periods of about €25 billion. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Are you in favour of an investigation committee, Mr. Collegue?]] The names Haider, Scheuch, Dörfler are inseparable. [[Abg. May. Darmann: You decided!]] Mr Darmann, if you're at the speaker's desk, you'll be better heard – please speak again! [[Abg. May. Darmann: I would like to, but we don't have a speaking time anymore!]] Making the emergency nationalization responsible for the disaster is a reversal of the victim-culptor role. But you won't succeed. People know what happened in Carinthia. So that won't work. But now to the settlement. Bad Bank/Anstaltslössung – let it go, these variants are not new. Bad Bank has also been called for several times by social democracy. I understand Mr Kogler's approach. It is a bit difficult, however, to request this participation of the creditors. This can either happen voluntarily, that would be the most beautiful, or with compulsion. I am currently missing the argument why someone volunteers, a hedge fund, a pension fund or any other professional investor, the... – Yes, but there we are then exactly at the compulsion; I am still coming. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You're right! We just don't pay! Carinthia can't pay either!]] – I am missing the argument why one who deserves his bread with it, we call it speculation, voluntarily giving up part of his income. I'm missing the argument. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He doesn't have the money from us yet!]] - Wait a bit! – That is to say, we will not be so easy to “lift” with voluntaryity. We will have to go in the direction of force, that is, not to serve. But what does that mean, “do not serve ”? – Yes, but with that, we are at a part of the hypo. [[Abg. May. Kogler:...and negotiate!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] - That's right. We can also calculate what a partial hypo of the hypo means for the location Austria; no one knows that exactly, on point and in addition and on the cent exactly. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] But you know – and there are examples enough – that credit quality suffers. And if the credit quality of the Republic of Austria suffers, it is very easily possible that the recapitalisation interest rates for our government bonds rise by 1 percent – that has already been done by colleague Krainer – which is € 2.7 billion a year. That means that this will be quite, very difficult. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But it can also be reversed! If the good creditors believe that the bad ones are going to go out...!]] – Mr Kogler, let us compare this to make it easier to understand, with a small private borrower, who has some loans, repays a few loans, but does not, or even goes into private bankruptcy. Well, do you think he'll get the best conditions when he goes back to the bank? - I don't think he'll get worse. The same is true of the danger to the state of Austria. There is one more thing to do when it comes to plebiscite: The 12,5 billion € in foreign country liabilities of the country of Carinthia would be beaten. There the 600,000 Carinthians are too valuable to me to speculate on their fate, where we do not know what will happen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: After hello, who speculated?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a pooling of constructive forces. I mean, you got it... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] - Don't get upset like that! We saw yesterday in the discussion “In the Centre” how “constructive” some were. We want the banks to pay. We have already achieved this through interest on participation capital, we have also done so through the bank levy. Mr Hable, if you say that the bank levy will be passed on, I reply: We have always said that the bank levy cannot be passed on. Notable bankers have told us that there are around 300 banking institutions in Austria, only 15 of them are covered by the bank levy. One of us said that we're going to take a closer look at whether we can't find internal councils to make it internally. This very position has also confirmed a study by the Chamber of Labour last year: The banks pay this bank levy themselves and not the consumer. We should finally stick to the truth once we have such a difficult chapter to deal with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say something more to the Committee of Inquiry and to the “constructive” opposition! Mrs. Martina Salomon is not suspected of being a social democratic member. She said yesterday that she was also a member of an investigation committee. Finally, she said: If I listen to you, I'm not actually for an investigation committee. I think it's also about the opposition being constructive – and I often miss you. [[Abg. Brosz: (a tablet with the label “Hypo: Shoulder closure for U committee” in height) Hypo! Shoulder closure for U-committee!]] A bank place is also a matter of trust, and if you hack as much wood as you do, then it is really harmful. [[Abg. May. Korun holds a table entitled “Hypo costs 5,500 euros for every family in Austria.”]] I think it's necessary to discuss constructively. This also includes a certain behavior, including a constructive opposition. All parties should behave constructively, and the opposition should not always result in party-political change. All those who call for committee of inquiry should think about this before.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13029	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13051	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After a six-hour debate, I would like to make a few points and summarize them. You have to ask the question why it came so far. We are debating the probably largest financial scandal in the Second Republic, which at the end of the day now depends on the federal government and the taxpayer. Why did it get so far? There's a very clear answer. Hypo Alpe-Adria has entered into dubious, highly risky, partly non-comprehensible banking operations up to the bond drawings, and the country of Carinthia has assumed liabilities of over €24 billion for these transactions. This is more than twelve times the annual national budget of the country of Carinthia. And that's what happened under free leadership. I can't save you that. It is true that there have been decisions which were partly unanimous in the Landtag. Yes, even the Greens have taken a decision, but the whole thing has happened under the leadership of freedom. And anyone who knows the system of Haider – I have been in the National Council for 11 years – knows how this happened in Carinthia. [[Call the FPÖ: How?]] It was big-scale, which was operated there, first on the back of the Carinthian taxpayers, now on the back of the taxpayers of the entire Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is also moral responsibility. The Kärntner head of state is tragically ill and dead. There's only one who's been sentenced, that's Josef Martinz. A hall still sits in the Federal Council, which had been represented for 12 years in the state government in Carinthia from 2001 to 2013, and was finally head of state in Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: So what?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whether you are FPÖ, FPK, Carinthian Freeman or BZÖ, you almost have to get your way, because now you really have to come out here for the BZÖ and defend this system. It doesn't matter to people in Austria who it was, it's to condemn, and it's also the consequences to draw. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] There is a lot to be said about emergency nationalization, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (a table with the inscription “Hypo: Shoulder closure for U committee” in height) Shoulder closure for U committee! It's the highest railway!]] Why has the bank been lighted down? I remember very well when Mr Pezner, Mr Pröll, followed Parliament's course in order to bring about this emergency nationalization. We were at the height – thank God he did not reach him – of the economic crisis: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] Think of Lehman Brothers! A bank has triggered a global financial and economic crisis, and the risk of domino effects has also been great and very serious in Austria. The financial markets were completely unstable, the liabilities – which has not yet been mentioned – would of course have become staggering and the bank would have gone into insolvency, ladies and gentlemen. In order to understand this also the citizens: This is similar to the sale of a highly indebted house, but the guarantee remains. In other words, the liability must continue to be assumed. Carinthia sold the Hypo Alpe-Adria to the BayernLB, but the liabilities remained in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's why U committee! That's a good argument!]] This is also one of the points of this system in Carinthia, which is not comprehensible, where the responsibility remains in the country of Carinthia at the end, and unfortunately God was turned to the Federal Government towards the Minister of Finance. To blame, nothing happened: That's just not true. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What happened?]] The liability, Mr Kogler, was reduced from over €24 billion to €12 billion. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a financial nonsense you are saying here!]] The Bayern – you first admitted it yourself in an intermediate call – are back on board, Mr Kogler. The equity replacement of €2.5 billion took place in 2012, the misappropriation is still in the room, and a dispute that is currently in progress is not concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, this is thanks to Minister of Finance Maria Fekter, who has shown a great deal of commitment in recent years. And the Bad Bank, which you have always called for, Mr Kogler, namely, on 13 March. ==References====External links== July 2013 here in the Hohen Haus in a urgent request: What would be the Bad Bank? – The Bad Bank is the so-called institution solution, the federal government takes over all the liabilities that exist at all. That's what you wanted, even in 2013. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not just that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance Maria Fekter has acted better here than what Mr Kogler has always proposed here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, we have also introduced the bank levy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: applause in the ranks of the ÖVP! ...! They're already in the fever!]] In my view, this is not the cure, but it is necessary in order to be able to put a total funding on the legs. That is why the Minister of Finance is quite right in the matter of solutions. There are two solutions: firstly, the solution, the so-called Bad Bank, or the insolvency. This must not be a taboo issue, only one must know what has a negative impact on taxpayers and taxpayers. That must be in our interest, and that must be said, even when it comes to insolvency: Should this be cheaper, yes, why should we not discuss this too? – This is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. Now it is about quickly coming to a solution and implementing it here in the house. Finally, I would like to stress once again the offer and request of Minister of Finance, Deputy Spindelegger. Today, he went to the entire opposition with arms outstretched and very openly. Mr Strolz, the vulture was inappropriate today, completely inappropriate. Austria has no vulture, neither do we want it. Comparison with Greece is essential. This insecures people in this country. We don't need that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance has today openly addressed the opposition. I support this request and underline it again. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] We can only work together to find a solution for the country and, finally, for taxpayers, but there must be this close-up and this commonness. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber once again holds the table with the label “Hypo: Shoulder closure for U committee” in height.]] There are two models that are still worthy of discussion from my point of view. We have the responsibility, in the sense of the people of this Republic, to carry in the sense of taxpayers. Help us so that we can meet this serious challenge together in the interests of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13250	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13271	Mr President. High house! Estimated government members! Dear citizens on the screens and here in the hall! Mr Wöginger, listen! I didn't compare Austria with Greece today. I said we were standing today where Greece was in the early 1990s. And if you look at government debt, that's the fact. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Go!]] These are facts. Today we have a higher debt than Greece had in the early 1990s. [[Abg. Krainer: We stand where Germany stood four years ago! That's also fact!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: You're racing, colleague!]] - I don't even remember. [[Abg. Krainer: Greece had no positive current account!]] Look, the vulture is therefore Your coat of arms, because of course it's a political and moral bankruptcy declaration, which you're holding here, that you haven't done anything for four years. Dear ÖVP! Dear SPÖ! You have to decide: Are you on the side of taxpayers? [[Abg. Krainer: What is that stupid question? What is that stupid question?]] Or are you on whose side? – We don’t know because you don’t trust to put things on the table. [[Abg. Krainer: This is an insult to intelligence!]] But if you're on the side of taxpayers, you can't say we're doing the institution solution and otherwise we're not thinking about anything else. You have now had four years to prepare things – four years! We've never heard of you. [[Abg. Krainer: Then you didn't listen!]] What you, the finance ministers, have done for three or four years, I would stand in front of the Kadi as a small entrepreneur – and I have been a business owner for twelve years – if not already sitting in the ports, because this is a clear case of insolvency tolling what you have done here. That's what you have to call it. This is usually a criminal offence. I think a government has a duty of care, too, and you have not complied with them. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Of course, you have to maintain the insolvency scenario in order to put pressure on the potential creditors, who can still be taken in here. You have to think in different scenarios, such as partial insolvency. Of course, there is also the solution of a resolution bank with Haircut, and there is also the establishment solution. There are at least four variants you would have to follow at this time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You only follow one variant, as the Minister of Finance told the honourable Member in Parliament last week, and with that you burn billions of taxpayers – billions! [[Abg. Wöginger: You didn't listen! Listen!]] That's the point. In summary: We are talking here about a bigger problem this country has, not just the hypo. Yesterday it was Deutsche Telekom, yesterday it was Salzburg. The SPÖ Finance Council said that we have €1.8 billion of liabilities that we have not known. We've been looking for €1.8 billion. Hallelujah! 1.8 billion for a budget of 2.4 billion for the whole country a year! And he had no plan at 1.8 billion?- Oh, my God! Yeah, what's that? - We have a systemic problem. Tomorrow it may be Vienna. Why could it be Vienna? [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: For half a long time now!]] – Vienna has quadrupled its debts since 2007, ladies and gentlemen, quadrupled since 2007! It's crazy what's going on! That is why we need systematic corrections here, so I ask for support for our proposals; first of all: Insolvency law for local authorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] If we've already missed it, we'll learn something from it! It'll help us for the next time. So: Insolvency law for local authorities. Further: Negotiations with creditors and the establishment of a Commission for federalism reform. . All the applications that are available today. Finally: Sunlight is the best disinfectant. That's why we need an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13435	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13456	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been interrupted earlier in the issue of capital injection in 2008 and the role of the central bank in emergency nationalization. That is exactly where the Minister for Finance has not answered much at all. I am going to make a few additions here for the Minutes, and the Committee of Inquiry's debate will follow. You can now expect that I will have to make this very quiet and turn to the colleagues of the ÖVP once again, after Mr Wöginger has made a dramatic statement here that you are all victims of your own propaganda. On the other hand, you should also do something, otherwise you will receive a ban on entry to your constituencies. [[Abg. Wöger: I don't!]] Then let's see! But that can't be so. Now someone has come out of a supposed economic party who has explained how great everything has gone under this federal government. I am always in the field of 2008/2009 – just for guidance to those who want to be involved in the back now – that the question of fully covered liability was the cause of the fact that the creditors could not be well-belief, which you all want to pay out. But the point is that the application of the liability is not The Federal Government's merit is. At the time of the emergency stateization, when we put this whole crot in the neck and now strangled, the corresponding liabilities – again – amounted to €19 billion. Now they're 12.5 billion. That means, if we're going around a little bit, we're gonna have to rip off liabilities in the area of €6.7 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A third!]] Yes, Mrs Finanzminister! We bought this by entering into the league with €1.2 billion of liabilities in between. By the way, we have to serve them, because the covenant really has to fulfill its promises. In this way, €3.6 billion has disappeared in the bank, which is exactly the same money that you have taken from the taxpayer into the bank and have already paid these creditors back. And then tell us that maturity was any special work?- Oh, my God! That's a quota of five to seven. Yes, for God's sake, there are the 12.5 billion who are still open, alone that... – If Your system continues to work like this, then we only expect €8.9 billion in the bill because of this involuntary and this inability to sell us as a success. Just like that once. You can enter them in the balance sheet immediately. – That’s this side of the balance sheet. I told you before. On the other side of the balance sheet – now we come to bankruptcy – you have to do it – maybe it can work; I don't know it in detail, but you have to try it – this mixed model, that you want it – and there the Bad Bank idea blows – from the lazy assets that there would be credit, real estate and leasing contracts et cetera, et cetera, as early as possible. That's just said, I know, but you have to try. You can't let them run. That's where we should try to get something back. They don't do both right. If, now, the Commission's proposal to the Green Group comes, we would always have called for a Bad Bank, I say: This is correct in parts – precisely in those parts, where we always wanted to see, something to get in on this side of the needy assets, because this can naturally be supportive and, second, the second argument – for this solution, the capitalisation would no longer be necessary. This would have saved us at least one in the last four years, after more than € 2 billion. You don't answer that either. You refused. That's why we've always represented Bad Bank. Finally, if this solution comes out, you've just passed these four years. It is precisely the accusation here that you do not need to get out of it and defend the black part of the government, for: If the Bad Bank comes now, this is exactly the evidence for four years of bankruptcy. This should have been done three years ago, as the former State Secretary has said. That's what he's giving interviews. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] But, of course, the SPÖ is in debt. We have pointed out to the Federal Chancellor for a long time, but they have preferred to sniff and sniff at first – and now as counter-offensive floating silence has been announced. You're totally unbelievable! And so it will be good if you get a turbo again. Or: Leave the government bank – I told you – because all this is only more damage to the taxpayer! So, the question of emergency nationalization was not answered. Previously, 2008, with 900 million, we have this questionable opinion of the central bank, which was pushed out from my point of view; Responsible: The head of the Black Federal Government. Then, three months later, when the Commission had approved it, immediately thereafter, the letter from the same central bank, in which it says: Hui, now we have deceived ourselves – when the cow was driven through the coniferous tube, so to speak – because if we had not assumed that the Bavaria and the Austrians were paying in the 700 and 900 million, that would have gone out differently! That's where everything is turned: from the Feet on your head! It was precisely the task of this opinion that was said: What would be without the state aid? – That is the essence of a state aid procedure! You can't be as stupid as you stand here! That was deliberately manipulated! That's exactly what it's all about, and that's clarifying! And you're still defending it! After all, they've been ringing back – we're going to put it all in front of you. And as far as the emergency stateization is concerned, we have to refer to the U Committee debate – I know, Mr President – as the answers were, of course, quite unsatisfying. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] And this is at all the turning and fishing point of all history, towards backward and also forward to this day. That is why this so-called emergency stateization, which was not necessary, is at the centre of all investigations, and from there one can determine in all directions of heaven and all the time dimensions – and we will do so. You won't prevent it, otherwise you'll have to step back anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13527	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Hable, colleagues and colleagues on securing the business documents of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Hable, colleagues, on the opening of haircut and conversion negotiations with the creditors of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues on the acquisition of new and completely independent hypothetical experts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues on 'Political Detention'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Loacker, colleagues on insolvency law for local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[14:53:24]] Requests for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e13621	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues, on the request of Mr Ddr. Fox, ladies and gentlemen, on the request of the honourable Member. Meinl-Risinger, colleagues and on the request of Mr Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen. As announced, since the subject-matter of the applications for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is similar, I will proceed in agreement with the applicants in the sense of a practice practiced in these cases, namely that the applications are first justified in the order in which they are submitted and the debate on this is carried out under one. The applications have now been distributed to all Members. The four applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request of Deputies DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Elmar Podgorschekund other Members on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR for the detailed examination of political and legal responsibilities in the context of the cooperation process. with the "Notualization" of the Hypo Alpe Adria in 2009 as well as the (current) settlement of the Hypo Alpe Adria The signed Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to 7 SPÖ, 7 ÖVP, 5 FPÖ, 3 GRÜNE, 1 Team Stronach, 1 Neos. Subject-matter of the investigation I. "Not stateization" Hypo Alpe Adria 1. Research into the need, causes, links and economic and political backgrounds of the nationalisation of the Hypo Alpe Adria in 2009 2. Enlightenment of the possible development of the Free State of Bavaria and the Bavarian Land Bank, in particular with regard to the inability of the Hypo Alpe Adria to pay through targeted deduction of capital 3rd. Clarification of infringements of the law 4. Clarification of the role of the institutions of the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank and the Republic of Austria, in particular the activities of financial market supervision, OeNB, financial procuratorship and, in particular, the Federal Ministry of Finance in connection with the Hypo Desaster and the hypo nationalization 5. Information on the exercise of the supervisory duty by the authorities and of the responsibility of the Hypo Alpe Adria 6. Investigation of the activities of the authorities and bodies of the Free State of Bavaria and of the then majority owner of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank in respect of the repayment of 3 billion euros to the Bavarian State Bank and the processing of any errors committed by Austrian creditors 7. Information on financial damage to the Republic of Austria ................................................................................................... Settlement of Hypo Alpe Adria 1. Examining the responsibility for the many years of a decision on the settlement of the mortgage and clarifying the financial damage resulting from it for the Republic of Austria 2. Study of the possible scenarios for the implementation of the Hypo Alpe Adria and clarification of the decision-making process and clarification of the financial impact of the individual scenarios in Austria, in particular with regard to budget deficits, public schools(quota) and associated future classification of credit rating agencies 3rd. Test whether the solution is the best solution in general and whether it is the best solution. the impact of the establishment solution on Austria's financial and economic strength 4. Research into the work of the Hypo Task Force and how the test report has been carried out and to what extent this test report and any other recommendations and results of the Task Force have been implemented and will 5. Examining the backgrounds for the award of an opinion on the possibilities of handling the Hypo Alpe Adria to Oliver Wymann (Title: Project Galileo: Outside observations) 6. Information on possible interventions certain scenarios in the handling of the Hypo Alpe Adria Investigation order The purpose of the investigation is to apply all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA to the subject-matter of the investigation, in particular through the submission of documents of the Federal Ministries for Finance, for Internal Affairs, for Justice, for Economics, Family and Youth, the BKA, its downstream departments, financial and judicial authorities, the submission of all contracts and any intergovernmental agreements relating to nationalization and/or settlement. the resolution of the Hypo Alpe Adria and the consultation of information persons identifying the subject matter of the investigation. Reasons In 2009, the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank was "not nationally lit". The links and economic and political background to this measure have so far remained largely unexplained. In the course of business, there should have been violations of the law. Capital should have been deducted from the bank in order to ultimately bring about its insolvency. To this end, it is important to clarify the roles played by the institutions of the Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank, the Bavarian Landesbank, the Free State of Bavaria and the Republic of Austria. Within the Republic, the activities of financial market supervision, OeNB, financial procuratorship and in particular of the Federal Ministry of Finance would be illuminated. It is important to pay attention to the retrospective control of the exercise of supervisory duties by the authorities and by responsibilities. With regard to the repayment of EUR 3 billion to the Bayerische Landesbank, the activities of the authorities and bodies of the Free State of Bavaria and the then majority owner of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank must be investigated and any infringements by Austrian authorities should be addressed. Legal and contractual aspects are key issues on which the Committee of Inquiry must be informed. In possible bilateral contracts relating to the "notionalisation" of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank, the Examining Committee has to consider and examine accordingly. In recent weeks, negative reports of the Hypo Alpe Adria have increased dramatically. A rapid handling of the Hypo Alpe Adria is more than necessary. After failure of the budget-saving model (the Austrian banks) preferred by the "Hypo Task Force" in the rescue of the hypo, the expensive public-law investment solution is now the most realistic variant, with the SPÖ "nothing to exclude" from the processing of the hypo. Also, the hypo is not completely excluded from the SPÖ. A solution, i.e. without the help of a third party or a third party. However, banks with the highest actual and comprehensive risk and liability takeover for the federal government are associated with a significant increase in Austrian government debt. At present, government debt is expected to rise to over 80%, which means that to reach an altitude far above the Maastricht targets. In the future, the negative effects of this effect on Austria, especially on its financial and economic strength, cannot be expected in any way. In formal terms, the Members who have been signed demand, in accordance with § 33(1) GOG to hold a brief debate on this request. Request according to § 33 (1) iVm § 33 (2) GOG-NR of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, Dr. Rainer Hable, colleague and colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee for the further examination of political responsibility in connection with the nationalisation of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG and the role of the owner since then, with particular reference to the introduction of a decision on the resolution structure or insolvency (HGAA Committee) The National Council wants to decide: "In order to examine the political responsibility associated with the acquisition of the shares of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG (HBInt) by the Republic of Austria and the subsequent handling of the rights and obligations of the sole owner, in particular the government's decision on a final resolution structure of the Hypo Group Alpe Adria (HGAA), an investigation committee consisting of a total of 24 delegates in relation to 7 SPÖ, 7 ÖVP, 5 FPÖ, 3 Greens, 1 Team Stronach, 1 NEOS-LIF will be set up." Subject-matter of the investigation Investigation of the emergency nationalisation Information on the negotiation process of the purchase of shares in the HBInt by the Republic of Austria, in particular on the date of the first contact between the Bavarian Landesbank (BayernLB) and the Austrian Ministry of Finance and the question whether an insolvency of the HGAA was actually considered by the BayernLB and the decision-making and risk assessment of the negotiating partners on the Austrian side, which led to the decision of the emergency nationalisation of the HGAA. Information on the design of the share purchase contract between the Republic of Austria and the BayernLB, in particular on those responsible for the final legal design and formulation, and on the maintenance of liabilities over 3.1 billion. EUR the BayernLB vis-à-vis the HBint, the provisions in the case of a breakdown or sale of the bank and the provisions on guarantee and guarantee (paragraphs 5 and 6 of the share purchase contract). Information on the background to the termination of HGAA loans and loans by the BayernLB of 1.2 billion. EUR in November 2009 Ministry of Finance and Financial Procuratorship for this purpose, as well as considerations on the non-compliance of this procedure under § 1 ECECEC. Information on whether the terms and conditions of the share purchase contract provide for repayment of loans granted by BayernLB, loans, etc. in the case of the settlement of the risk business via a so-called "Bad Bank". Information on whether and, where applicable, why the Republic of Austria, in the context of the negotiations on the emergency nationalisation of the HGAA, has refrained from the acquisition of external legal expertise common to transactions of this complexity and scope. Information on why the Republic did not waive warranty obligations when buying shares in the context of the emergency nationalisation of the HGAA and why the purchase of the shares did not exclude future claims of the seller, while the BayernLB as a seller retained extensive rights of participation and whether, in these circumstances, taxes on the taxpayer (e.g. by requisitions of the BayernLB). Information on the form in which, for example, the share purchase contract took into account the fact that due to the circumstances of emergency nationalization (time pressure, pressures, etc. European bodies) no usual review in the form of a due diligence prior to signing of the contract and to what extent appropriate later improvement clauses were found in the interest of the Republic of Austria as a buyer to be included in the contract. Information on the extent to which a subsequent due diligence has taken place in view of the time of ownership of the BayernLB, in particular in the context of the CSI (clause of HGAA’s assets) initiated by the President of the Financial Procurator in spring 2010 and requested by the political leadership, according to media reports. Information on the precise responsibilities, contacts and decision-making channels in the competent Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) regarding the exercise of ownership rights and obligations at HGAA, the negotiations with the European Commission, etc. as well as the activities documented with them since the emergency nationalisation. Information on the backgrounds of the Landesgericht München I, 32. Citizen's pending dispute over about 6 billion. EUR between the BayernLB and the HGAA and verify that the BayernLB’s contested loans were properly taken into account at the time of the emergency nationalisation by the negotiating BMF and other stakeholders and why and on which legal basis the termination of the repayments took place only in 2012. Information on whether the Republic of Austria has considered an error challenge to the share purchase contract and, if so, why such a contract has been prevented so far. Investigation of the operations relating to the resolution/restructuring of the HGAA Information on when the idea of the management of the risk business of HGAA via a "bad bank" by the Republic of Austria (in particular the BMF represented) was discussed for the first time. These documents were presented by the Society to the extent that they were used and how this model was evaluated economically. Information on the various potential resolution models discussed in the BMF and in other relevant bodies (in particular the Hypo Task Force) for the HGAA as well as review of any assessment, assessment and cost-benefit analysis on the different variants. Information on the role of financial procurator in the sales negotiations, in the design of contracts and in the design of the resolution models and/or in EU aid proceedings and in legal disputes with the BayernLB. Information on the restructuring plans submitted to the European Commission (Republic opinions and questionnaires from the EU Commission). Information on whether the idea of handling the risk business of HGAA via a "bad bank" by the Republic has not been implemented from other than purely economic considerations until today. Information on whether the idea of managing the risk business of HGAA via a "bad bank" has not been implemented by the Federal Government for purely electoral reasons until today. ==References====External links== HGAA's risk management through a "Bad Bank" and the unnecessarily high capital injections required by the Republic of Austria, respectively, damage to the Republic of Austria or the Republic of Austria. the taxpayers have been created. Information on whether the Republic of Austria or one of its companies has caused a reputational damage by the fact that the decision regarding settlement has been postponed for years. Information on when, for the first time, to what extent and by whom talks with private investors (especially the Austrian credit institutions, for example). Raiffeisenbanken, Erste Bank/Sparkassen, Hypo Banken) on the formation of a "Bad Bank" and to what extent such a solution was discussed with those responsible for the domestic and international statistical authorities as well as, where appropriate, those with interest to the vote, prior to February 2014. Information on the extent to which and at what time experts were involved in the strategic considerations on the management of the HGAA (in particular with regard to the ‘Bad Bank’). It is clear whether the proceeds for the Austrian business of HGAA are lower due to the failure of the risk operations of HGAA to a "bad bank" or to the failure of the HGAA. how the public-led political discussion has structurally damaged the national institution (e.g. about customer drains). Information on which resolution scenarios were preferred by the BMF at what time. Information on the extent to which orders to consultants have been received in connection with resolution scenarios and who has been the client of various opinions. Information on which points the report of the Task Force Hypo contradicts the report of the consultant Oliver Wyman. Information on whether the BMF has commissioned further advice to examine the insolvency scenario since the failure of the investment solution was made known and on whom. Investigation order The subject-matter of the investigation is to be pursued by applying all the instruments provided for in the VO-UA, as well as information of all kinds, as well as by all the files, reports and protocols - in particular the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Financial Procuratorship, the Austrian National Bank, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority, the Financial Market Participation AG, the Investigation Committee for the Review of the Sale of shares of HGAA by the Carinthian Land Holding of the Kärntner Landtag and the Task Force Hypo Alpe Adria. All matters are to be examined for political responsibilities. Reasons In December 2009, the Republic of Austria acquired all the shares of the HBint for a symbolic euro from the BayernLB. At the same time, the BayernLB attracted 1.2 billion in the form of termination of loans. EUR from the HBint and thus brought it to the edge of the bankruptcy. The damage to HGAA was taken into account. At the time of sale, the BayernLB still had claims of 4 billion. EUR against HGAA. Negotiations between the BayernLB and the Republic of Austria (excluding the minority owners Kärntner Landes- und Mortgagekenbank Holding and Grazer Reciprocale) ended with a relinquishing of the BayernLB on claims over 825 million. EUR. The remaining liabilities exceed 3.1 billion. According to the purchase contract, EUR shall continue to be served by the new owner, the Republic of Austria (and thus the taxpayer). From the BayernLB's point of view, such high-risk claims against the HGAA were converted into secure claims against the Republic of Austria. It should be clarified in an investigation committee whether the intentional injury suffered by HGAA by the Group's mother (and thus the immediate bankruptcy) would have been prevented if the competent State institutions of the Republic of Austria had qualified the funds concerned as own-capital substitutes under § 1 ECEG. The question should also be asked whether the emergency nationalization of HGAA and the resulting billion tomb for the Republic were indeed "alternativeless" (Finanzminister Pröll), on which basis and on what basis the risk assessment of the financial burden on the Republic of Austria and for the BayernLB was chosen relatively favourable way of emergency nationalization. Against the background of the media-explained time pressure, including pressing voices from abroad and abroad, it is necessary to examine the extent to which the impossibility of a serious audit (by due diligence) during the sales talks and related corrective clauses were taken into account in the interests of the buyer in the contracts. It is also necessary to determine the reasons for the concrete design of the content of the contract. In particular, it is necessary to highlight why the BayernLB retains participation rights, although it withdraws all risks in the purchase contract and why the BayernLB’s own-capital-replaced loans do not remain in the HGAA after the sale. Further clarification should be made of the reasons for the disadvantages of the Republic. Austria was excluded from any guarantee or liability for the shares purchased, so the Republic had taken on a significant risk. A short time after the adoption of the HGAA, it became aware during 2010 that the financial institution was in a dramatic state despite the measures taken in the 2009 financial year and that further capital measures as well as far more extensive restructuring measures would be necessary. Already at this time the idea of "Bad Bank" also found distribution. Experts such as Hypo Supervisory Board Chief Klaus Liebscher, Chief Executive Officer of FIMBAG, Supervisory Board Chairman of HGAA and former Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Governor of the OeNB, already preferred the solution of the "Bad Bank" on the "further sausages" under the Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. In September, Liebscher announced that the capital injections still necessary in the same year had been reduced by a timely decommissioning unit. In the same way, the previous Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the HGAA, Johannes Ditz, had said several times, and he should also have made an urgent statement to the responsible head of the BMF by letter (according to media reports in May 2013). The head of government was also in favour of the solution of the Bad Bank, and in November 2013, Liebscher was able to mention it in agreement with Chancellors and Vice-Cancellors. Wifo bank expert Hahn explained at the end of 2013 that it was already'too late' for the Bad Bank solution. Too long those eyes had been closed. ‘Some unnecessary subsidies would have been saved’, one would have acted earlier, that is, two or three years ago. "This would have been cheaper for the taxpayer" (cf. "Hahn: Bad Bank comes "too late" on kurier.at from 15. ==References== Since then, a new finance minister has been active and not much has happened outside. Opinions were held under cover, and not only were Parliament prevented from fulfilling its supervisory function. For these reasons, it is appropriate to specify the procedures relating to the HGAA and the HGAA respectively. HBint to explain accordingly. The Members of this House, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, are calling for further § 33(2) GOG-NR on this request to hold a brief debate. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry According to § 33 (1) (iVm) § 33 (2) GOG-NR by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Werner Kogler, Mr Bruno Rossmann, Mr Colleagues and others concerning the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR for the further examination of political responsibility in connection with the operations relating to the Hypo Alpe Adria (Hypo Investigation Committee) The National Council wants to decide: “In order to examine political responsibility in connection with the hypo-Alpe Adria, a Committee of Inquiry is set up consisting of a total of 24 delegates in relation to SPÖ 7, ÖVP 7, FPÖ 5, Green 3, TS 1, Neos 1.” Subject-matter of the investigation Information on the following questions: I. Supervising, auditing and supervision, respectively. of the Ministry 1. ==References====External links==* Official website The FMA to the Hypo Alpe Adria complex has been carried out since the year 2000 respectively. has been written and known to the Ministry of Finance? 2. ==References====External links== Test reports carried out or carried out. the reports are written and accepted? 3rd. The test was carried out in the course of the test. Test reports Indications of any malnutrition, such as infringements of law, infringements of regulations of supervision or other infringements of rules? 4. What were the indications of the hypo's infringements of law concerning the sub-divided own resources (BWG § 22 para. 1)? 5. What are some indications of the hypo’s violations of law regarding the accountability of core capital components (§s 23 and 24)? 6. What were some indications of the hypo's violation of law regarding the risk of clumps in large-scale investments (§27/4)? 7. What kind of evidence did there appear to be infringements of the hypo concerning lack of own resources (§39/1)? 8. What were some indications of hypo infringements of law regarding lack of risk management and due diligence regarding money laundering (§ 39/1 and § 39/2)? 9. What were some indications of the hypo's violation of laws concerning inadequate controls and communications relating to money laundering (§ 40/4)? 10. What are some indications of the hypo’s violation of law regarding false reporting of own resources (§74)? 11th@item: inlistbox What kind of evidence was there about the hypo's breach of law regarding missing large-scale credit messages (§ 75)? 12. How many reports have the State Commissioners sent by the Ministry of Finance transmitted to the BMF and/or the FMA during this period? 13. What was the content of these reports? Were there any critical comments and suggestions? 14. Was there any evidence on the part of the state commissioners of any infringements, as in questions 4 to 11? 15. How many test reports have the Ministry of Finance commissioned since 2000 according to §16(4) FMABG? 16. What other actions have been made by your ministry in connection with the supervision of the Hypo Alpe Adria since 2000? ................................................................................................... Liabilities of the country Carinthia 17. In what way has the Ministry of Finance dealt with the various liabilities of the country of Carinthia? 18. Since when and to what extent has the country of Carinthia used the financing possibilities of the Federal Finance Agency (ÖBFA) and on what conditions have these funding been carried out? 19. Has this type of financing been sought and/or linked by the Ministry of Finance? III. 900 million Euro Participation capital in 2008 20. Who's got around the 23. ==References====External links== To give Euro tax money to participation capital into the Hypo Alpe Adria? 21. Who was contacted by the majority owner BayernLB for the investigation and preliminary ruling and who led the negotiations in this regard? 22. What concrete negotiating position has the minority owner Graz's mutual (GRAWE) taken vis-à-vis the Federation? 23. What basis of decision did they have and are they sufficiently documented in their home? 24. ==References====External links==* Official website Is it possible to examine the resulting proposals? a. If so, of whom and what was the result of this exam? 25. Why was the OeNB prepared in December 2008 in connection with the mentioned grant of participation capital a “OeNB opinion on the application for the drawing of participation capital of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria by the Republic of Austria”? 26. Was this opinion decisive in the decision of the Ministry of Finance? 27. Is there any evidence that your ministry has exerted influence on those involved in this opinion or other stakeholders? 28. How were the following statements assessed in the Ministry of Finance? a. ‘HGAA would also maintain own resources ratios beyond the minimum regulatory requirements without State support following the recapitalisation of the main shareholder. The short-term and medium-term liquidity situation is satisfactory. After the losses in 2007 and 2008, where a process of adjustment in the credit portfolio in particular has been carried out, the HGAA is planning profits for 2009 and subsequent years.” b. ‘With regard to the economic situation of HGAA, it should be noted in particular that on the basis of a largely adjusted credit portfolio for 2009, HGAA has a profit of 225 million. EUR.’ c. ‘... that on the basis of the planned calculation, a cover of the assumed annual operation of the participation capital appears possible within the calculated bandwidths at interest rates of 8%, 9% and 9.3%.’ 29. How does the Ministry of Finance respond to the complete relativization of these above statements – as it did on 15 November? May 2009 Mag. Lejsek were transmitted – respond? 30. The Ministry of Finance has tried to make the divergent statements of the opinion. the relativisation mentioned with previous control reports, supervisory determinations and actions? a. When, by whom and in what way was that done? b. If no, why not? IV. Nationalization and contacts with BayernLB and the Free State of Bavaria 31. What are the basis for the decision to grant participation capital in 2008? 32. How did the nationalization process proceed? 33. What preparatory contacts and discussions took place between Austrian and Bavarian bodies? 34. Which persons were involved and what were their tasks? 35. What documents were available to the Austrian side, were they complete, correct and meaningful? 36. What steps have been taken by the Austrian side to obtain deeper information in the sense of due diligence? 37. What was the Bank's economic situation at the time of nationalization, how did its risk profile represent? 38. There were stronger changes in economic situation and risk profile since the beginning of 2009 and what were the reasons for this? 39. How was the purchase of pages of the Republic documented? Is this documentation sufficient and complete? 40. Which scenarios existed, are these plausible and was the decision to nationalize them finally deduced? 41. Who designed the contracts and who gave advisory support? 42. If the purchase contract is comparable to other bank purchase contracts, does it contain similar safeguards and arrangements against unforeseen developments? 43. How to assess the content of the contract in terms of economy, efficiency and effectiveness? 44. Which basics (evaluations, opinions, etc.) was there a need to qualify the bank as a “system-relevant ”? 45. How does the aid procedure with the EU end in the various steps, which measures have been taken, which obligations have been granted and accepted? 46. How can responsibilities, procedures and results be assessed in the negotiations of the Republic with the EU? 47. How to assess the further activities of the owner in relation to the implementation, control and implementation of the requirements? V. Task Force and Financial Market Participation AG 48. Is there any evidence in the Ministry of Finance that the central bank has failed to control, that the central bank has not acted properly or that the central bank has failed until the summer of 2008? 49. Is there any evidence in the Ministry of Finance that the central bank has failed to control, that the central bank has failed to act, or that the central bank has failed in the summer of 2008? 50. Does the Ministry of Finance cooperate with the central bank, the FMA and the money laundering control bodies in a appropriate manner in the sense of the legal requirements and other legal framework? 51. The Ministry of Finance expressed its views among its predecessors and today on the serious record of the Court of Auditors in its report Bank Package (Report Volume 2012/9, published on 26.9.2012) on the following: “The FIMBAG Financial Market Participation AG of the Federal Government did not carry out the mandatory checks carried out on it because it did not exercise the contractually granted accounting, auditing and prudential rights.”? VI. Years of non-trading and insolvency towing 52. Why has the decision been made as a resolution unit for the Hypo Alpe Adria not four years ago? 53. Why was the proposal by the then Secretary of State for Finance Arbitrator, who had proposed a resolution unit in the form of a ‘bad bank’ three years ago, not implemented? 54. As and when did the Ministry of Finance refer to the harsh letter from Commissioner for Competition Almunia of 15. May 2012 with regard to the many years of failure in relation to competition-compliant plans to resolve the Hypo Alpe Adria problem? VII. Resolution variants, creditors' participation and the obligation of the creditors 55. What information is there in the Ministry of Finance or in the Hypo Alpe Adria complex itself about the first-signs of the bank bonds? a. Who are these bonds? 56. What information is available in the Ministry of Finance, in the Hypo Alpe Adria complex itself or in the relevant clearing agents about the current holders of these bonds? a. Who are the current holders of the bonds? 57. Do you assume in the Ministry of Finance that these bond owners are fair, serious and therefore particularly safe? 58. In addition to the bonds already held by the federal government, is there any further statements of the federal government – and thus the Austrian taxpayers – to deposit Hypo Alpe Adria bonds? 59. Is there any commitment by the federal government to enter into the liabilities of the country of Carinthia? 60. Why has the Wyman opinion not been made available to the representatives of the Financial Committee? a. Is there an inevitable contractual or other legal remedy for this? b. Have you examined your answer to a question of the urgent question raised by Members Glawischnig-Piesczek, friends of 29.1.2014 (502/J) for your correctness? 61. What (specific) costs and risks did the Task Force calculate in the 20 options? 62. What is the totally different assessment of the variants of a ordered insolvency or insolvency? a “bail-in” in the Wyman opinion and the Task Force report? 63. Is it true that the Ministry of Finance has commissioned a new opinion from Oliver Wyman on the advantages and disadvantages of insolvency? a. If so, what is the exact object of the contract, when will the result be present and when Are you presenting this opinion to Parliament's financial committee? 64. What efforts are there by the Ministry of Finance to involve the predecessors of Graz's mutual (GRAWE) in the billions of the resolution? a. How large was the proportion of GRAWE in the ownership of the Hypo Alpe Adria at the time of nationalization? b. How much is the financial contribution of the GRAVE to the cost of the hypo-havary raised so far? c. In the view of the Ministry of Finance, how large should the GRAWE's financial contribution to the hypo-havary be? 65. What efforts are there by the Ministry of Finance to involve the predecessors of BayernLB in the further billions of the resolution? a. How large was the proportion of BayernLB in the ownership of the Hypo Alpe Adria at the time of nationalization? b. How large is the financial contribution of BayernLB to the previously incurred cost of the hypo-havary? c. In the view of the Ministry of Finance, how large should BayernLB's financial contribution to the mortgage be? 66. Is the infringement of the contract of sale pursued in the context of nationalization against the BayernLB and, for example, is prepared by the financial procurator in a serious and in-depth manner? VIII. Advisory contracts and costs 67. At the end of November 2013, it was announced that the Hypo Alpe Adria had paid 300 million euros to advisory fees. Which companies were given advisory services when and in what amount? 68. Does the Ministry of Finance follow these allegations and, where appropriate, will it call for appropriate and economic and economical handling of advisory contracts in its ownership responsibility? IX. Political felt with banks and financial institutions 69. What links and networks exist between banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions with supervisory and decision-making bodies BMF, BMF's cabinet, FMA, OeNB and anti-money laundering bodies? X. Disclosure of all party donations 70. Since 2000, there have been donations or other grants from which banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions to political parties or their predecessors. Company? 71. How and to what extent were these grants made? 72. Is there any suspicion at any time of any specific consideration or other consideration by the beneficiary parties? Investigation order By collecting oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account all the files, reports, protocols, contracts, e-mails and other documents of the Federal Chancellery, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Austrian National Bank, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority, the Financial Procuratorate, the FIMBAG, the Task Force Hypo Alpe Adria, the judicial authorities, the institutions (part-)of-state banks and Statistics Austria, the investigative committee is to examine all matters concerning political responsibilities. Reasons The disaster surrounding the Hypo Alpe Adria is the biggest financial crime of the 2nd. Republic. The Austrian taxpayers will find it expensive to stand. About five billion. Euro in tax money has already been lowered in the Hypo Alpe Adria. Another 13 billion euros are in total, i.e. they are unlikely to be inflexible. Another six billion are in trouble. 13 billion euros of additional damage caused by the hypo: This means a burden of 1,500 euros for every citizen and every citizen or 5,500 euros for each family. To illustrate the damage of 13 billion euros: This would allow about 45,000 kindergartens to be financed for 50 years. The Haider system has triggered the hypo scandal: Over 20 billion outlaws of the country Carinthia, lazy loans, criminal business. SPÖ and ÖVP alternated in Carinthia with co-responsors and co-responsors. Five ÖVP finance ministers have brought the hypo-damage to the fore by insidious neglect, delay tactics and wrong decisions. The SPÖ and chancellor Faymann were always fully informed and have watched without fail. Financial State Secretary was arbitrator at the Negotiating Table. The “solution” now planned is the most expensive, burdened by citizens and saves investment funds, banks, speculators and old-age owners. With catastrophic effects: The hypo will burden the government budget for years and open spaces for important future investments, such as: to annihilate education. Many things would have been avoidable, but many things can still be avoided. Finally, after hopefully minimizing damage, a clarification of the political responsibility for the largest financial scandal of the 2nd would be necessary. Republic in a parliamentary committee of inquiry. In accordance with § 33(2) of the GOG, the Members of Parliament are calling for a short debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14453	We are now going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speakers giving reasons for each speaking time. have 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. On the request of Mr Dr. Mr Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to speak to Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14486	Mr President. High house! The introduction of our request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is, of course, linked to the hope that a solution will be reached soon. It is very important, I believe, to clarify retrospectively whether the credit provisions have been sufficiently achieved in the balance sheet. Because there is actually little clear statement about accounting – and then we would have it at last. In some statements, the Hypo Alpe-Adria is presented worse than any subprime Mortgage portfolio, and that really can't be. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please speak German!]] If we know the numbers better, we can finally make a serious forecast. The answer, unless everything is completely unforeseeable, is actually not satisfactory, because every managing director, every bank manager, each CEO has to give a fairly accurate forecast. And there is also a clear picture of the past at every company and at every public company. So, without infringing banking secrecy, a lot of data can be disclosed. Take a look at JP Morgan's quarterly report! In this you will find more data than the government has revealed to us over the past few months by the Hypo Alpe-Adria. I believe that this is also very important because we need to know how this will affect public debt – even if the EU will help to calculate well, because we know that the GDP calculation will be changed to a new system that is already in place in the US, but not all that is available over there is better than with us. It looks as if our economic performance will then magically shoot up a few percentage points, but in real figures nothing changes at all. On the contrary: The taxpayer will be asked to check out! And this must be prevented as far as possible, of course. To the danger that I may now be criticized for a repetition, I say again: We must turn to Bavaria! Ladies and gentlemen, they even expect that and according to the “handelsblatt” have already put 1 billion € on the page and budgeted. And I'm telling you, there's more to get – again: Capital replacement right. The Austrian taxpayers must be closer to us than the Germans. In order to be able to light this up to the best possible extent, a committee of inquiry needs to be set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14521	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to the applicant. Please, Mr Dr. Fuchs.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14542	Mr President. High house! Watchers at the gallery! ==References== December 2009 – we have already heard that – was a nationalization without need. Why did the then Finance Minister Pröll let himself be pulled over the table? [[Call the ÖVP: In your opinion!]] - You don't seem to be. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] – The backgrounds should be clarified in a committee of inquiry. Due to the nationalization, the immense risks to the Austrian taxpayers were shifted. Was the then Minister of Finance aware of this? Did he let the hypo hang out lightly? Who were the then profiters, next to the BayernLB? – These are, among other things, the questions that Austrian taxpayers would have liked to have answered. A committee of inquiry seems to me to be the appropriate means in this regard. And what has been since the 14th century? December 2009 happened? – We have some capital increases behind us, consultants have earned millions, and it has been wasted a lot of time. It's only now that after four years that the establishment solution would be the most appropriate means. And where was the supervision all the time? Are the consequences of the regulatory failure of the OeNB and the FMA? At that time, did the OeNB's 2008 test report perhaps put pressure on the OeNB? Why is the insolvency not a suitable variant for Liebscher and Novotny? Who would hit the hypo? – Foreign banks, insurance companies, speculators and funds in particular have been covered in the past at a mini-price in terms of bonds. And now, where the hypo belongs to the Republic, do these speculators seriously expect the Republic to eliminate 100 percent?- Oh, my God! - Not with us, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They're not good-believers! They knew exactly what they were up to. The mortgage, i.e. the hypo-Pfandbriefing Office, saves €1.3 billion of the facility solution now favorite. Who are the profiters? – Well, the other Land-Hypos and their owners, the well-known federal states and, of course, Raiffeisen. Why use these profiters? [[Abg. Krainer: I don’t understand this sentence now: “Why use these profiters? ”]] [[Abg. Kickl: You've never lost your life, that's the good thing! You've never gone far, Mr. Krainer!]] The artists of the health certificate model have collected €150 million, and this was apparently a legal process. This process must also be checked. Even the President of the Federal Republic of Germany believes that although a bankruptcy of the bank is associated with significant risks, it must be one of the most important efforts to attract even those groups, institutions, people who have had an unworthy benefit. The taxpayer has a right to answer these questions and other questions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The establishment of a committee of inquiry is essential.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14625	To the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mr Hable, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14646	Mr President. High house! Citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! At the Hypo Alpe-Adria there are numerous questions that have not been answered so far, although we have often discussed them. The questions have disappeared, they have survived again today – the answers as you know. [[Call the FPÖ:The answers!]] [[Abg. Krainer: The questions are missing or the answers?]] [[Abg. Krainer: But you said the questions!]] – There are enough questions. Let me draw attention to the many open questions. [[Abg. Kickl: (on p. Krainer pointing)... no misinvestment of Faymann! A good man!]] The first question, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, but also Members of SPÖ and ÖVP – I also address this question to you because you apparently do not really perceive your role as Members, but only in the support of the government – is: [[Abg. Krainer: Hello?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Krainer: But hello!]] Is it true that the BayernLB threatened to make the hypo plead, or is it true that the Bayern never intended to send the Hypo Alpe-Adria into bankruptcy, as the Bavarian Finance Minister said in the Bavarian Landtag? – First crucial question, which has still not been answered. The second major question still faces an answer: How did emergency nationalization go about? Why, for example, did the Republic refrain from all warranty rights in the case of emergency nationalization? Who's actually doing this with a purchase contract? And why, if you do, was it also not possible to carry out an accurate legal and financial audit after the purchase contract had been concluded? - That's what it's all about: There are purchase contracts, there are corporate purchases that are under such temporary pressure, as you sometimes do so afterwards. But one is well advised to include so-called improvements clauses in the purchase contract so that one can make this due diligence in retrospect and then have the effect of improving the purchase price or selling price accordingly. That's what any lawyer can tell you. And I'm just wondering, Then why hasn't it been done? Haven't you listened to the lawyers involved, or weren't you there at all? Third point I would like to return to: This incredible discrepancy – I have already mentioned it today – between the outstanding volume of credit, the 24 billion that can be read from the consolidated balance sheet, and these aggregated amounts of damage from € 13 billion to € 19 billion. I don't know if the colleague from the SPÖ, Member of the Kuzdas, is in the hall – I don't see him at the moment. He said that these are only the loans to be transferred to a bathroom bank. – Well, but loans that are economically transferable or where at least security is behind them, I don’t have to jump into a bad bank! This means that there is already a risk that a large part of these 13 to 19 billion will go down the stream and the taxpayers will have to pay for it. This is, of course, a relationship that no one can understand, because in most other banking bankruptcys, on the contrary, relatively high bankruptcy rates are achieved. And why is that so? – Because banks usually have their business, their loans, secured. It is therefore incomprehensible how such a balance sheet sum can result in such a high amount of damage in the event of such a disbursing credit balance. There too we need to be informed! But Mr Kuzdas of the SPÖ has already said how high the damage could really be. I don't know if he's been messing up there, but it was definitely a realistic number. And there we would be quite with him. He said the actual damage will probably amount to € 4 to 6 billion. 4 to 6 billion €, he said. That's where we'd be with him. This is a realistic scenario of damage. But then I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen: In case of a damage of €4 to €6 billion, why don't we send the hypo immediately into insolvency? Who can argue, then, that a damage of €4 to €6 billion shakes the financial markets? – That can't be true! So, either one argues that the amounts of damage are so high that they actually lead to disapproval of the financial markets and cause great damage – but then we also need to know through an investigation committee why the Hypo Alpe-Adria has created such a high failure rate that no single bank, no scrap bank, has reached so far. Or, if the damage is actually only € 4 to 6 billion – and we can understand that – then the question arises: Then why not send the bank into insolvency? This does not shake either Austrian or international financial markets. Both variants cannot be followed, that is a contradiction in itself. Dear Members of the Federal Government, but also colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP! You owe us many answers, and that is why we need this committee of inquiry. We also need this committee of inquiry - my colleague Matthias Strolz has already mentioned it - because it is a fundamental problem in our country, it is not just about the hypo: The financial scandal in Salzburg, the swap deal in Linz, the hypo – we have problems everywhere. And again and again they appear – under different heading, but it seems to be system in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have to take this hypo case, this super-GAU, this biggest-ever-accepting accident, as a reason for the renovation of Austria. The hypo-desaster must be the reason for this system to be broken down, a system in which funds are pushed down and down, where responsibilities are not perceived, in which control bodies fail, in which party-political pro-pors and interests of associations ensure that we have the highest tax rate in this country, but still do not come out with our money, and ensure that we have a hypo-debakel that is now trying to recombine the taxpayer. This is a system with an incredible amount of felt, and our task is to break up this felt as a parliamentarian. An element, a contribution to bringing light into this felt and improving the Austrian political system, will be an investigative committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14756	Before I come to the request made by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that to Mr Mag. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim appointed President Ing. Hofer insists that Dr. Andreas Khol is on the gallery]] Mr Kogler, I very much welcome the former President of the National Council, Dr Andreas Khol, in the House. – Welcome! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Please, Mr Mag. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14806	That's the right Taferl. [[Abg. Krainer: It's wrong there!]] - That's right. Ladies and gentlemen! A committee of inquiry is simply inevitable, the question is only what size it has and what periods it should include. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] I would mean, all the objects and time dimensions that have already been treated here today. At the outset, I should like to point out that we will present a few documents here and then also in the further parliamentary work. But now also for the protocol to justify this request for the setting up of an investigation committee: We are located in 2009, it is about the – under quotation marks – “Not nationalization”, and here is a mail transport from Sunday, 14. December 2008, last entry 5.30 a.m. and 8 seconds, between Mr. Peter Breyer, staff in the Banking Department of the Bank, and Mr. Johannes Turner, head of the Statistics and, as far as we have researched, also responsible for the Banking Department. That's what it says – that's to be quoted at this point again –: We must bear in mind that the support packages could follow examination committees or court proceedings in a few years, for example, if a bank cannot repay. - Quote. Yeah, they've already secured themselves! Before, they write: On the other hand, we should remain critical. And then they're exactly in this dilemma. Now it is here once again for the protocol. We have already heard today that we have entered the case a year before, with an ordered opinion of this kind here. In the follow-up, the central bank then put everything on the head and, if you want to, the EU Commission and the European institutions showed the long nose. In this so-called short-term opinion of the central bank – which we must look at – the following was to be read: As early as 2009, profits are expected according to plan. - Quote. In another edition – I have to quote this freely now, but I already know the documents externally – even € 225 million of profits were forecast in 2009 and in the following years profits at similar, yes, even increasing height. - That's where the note bank skinned the stamp on it. You have to imagine that! The reason for this positive outlook was that by the year 2008, the hypo would have adjusted its shaky credit portfolio – again literally. – So if you know what the central bank had to know from its own critical reports at the same time, then that is part of the financial crime. It's no longer explainable. And then the following questions ask: What role has Mr. Notenbank Governor played? What role have others played? And how do the two employees get into such a lack? A more classic proof of a commission for an investigation committee than this is not available here, because that was the entry into the emergency state. As the first 900 million tax capitals have flown – as capital – it had to be clear that we never got it back. Then it continued in this quick-shoot opinion, because the question was whether 8 or 9.3 percent of interest should be required or, for competition reasons – for the sick, perhaps 9.3 percent, for the better 8 percent, in which it would have been wanted anyway. It says that both 8 percent and 9.3 percent can at least be operated by the Hypo Alpe-Adria. That was completely absurd at the time! It was nevertheless presented, stamping on it, back to the government that ordered it, 900 million capital over, document to Brussels, everything done. And when this process was completed and the Commission sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance on this process and it became known, the same note bank has revised it again. - That's inconceivable! If that – only that! – no reason for an investigation committee, then I do not remember – nor does it demonstrate with these documents, even with this crazy quick opinion from the central bank! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are the rulers who in their time of activity are already one of the highest salaries in this country – forgive me! – and as pensioners, as we know, more. These are the same rulings that then form the Board of Management of FIMBAG – Liebscher, Wala – with the highest pensions of the Republic, secured by some crazy privilege right. But let us be that, the gentlemen don't let it be taken to work there – blessed! We already had Court of Auditors reports that are difficult to criticise FIMBAG – Liebscher, Wala. Assay investigation and emergency: What did you do here? – They still refuse a reconnaissance. Gabi Moser and I will start next week, since we have the first Court of Auditors Committee that witness lovers – at this point witness – and witness how they are all called, at least once in front of the Court of Auditors about this blatant failure of FIMBAG. You should have monitored these €900 million that entered with our tax money. It's all connected. Mr. Liebscher is Taskforce Chief – that's still some informal event – then Mr. Liebscher was FIMBAG's boss, always for years, then he became the Supervisory Board Chief of Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia, which was practical after the others had all been galloped away, since the Federal Government's peak was advisory. Mr Liebscher was already grateful, he was still there. And then Mr. Liebscher has also become Taskforce chief. This is, of course, something that cannot even be blamed on the Minister of Finance, but that is actually the case with Faymann and Spindelegger, because de facto there has been a demise of the Minister of Finance and her staff, which has been aimed at a different solution. That's how it was then, wasn't it? – Thank you for the sign you agree to; this for the protocol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why Faymann and Spindelegger are just for the top of this so-called task force, with no one to this day know what this is supposed to be. It was not answered again that they themselves, as has been said, have charged heavy debt, namely, as overseers, where they have failed before, actually from 2000, and at least in their responsibility – now again Novotny – these things have happened. Then there was an emergency state, as said: the turning and fishing point. The following questions will now be examined: With what was the Republic extortionable? With what was pröll, Finance Minister, so that this arrangement was elected – so I even assume that this emergency nationalization would have been necessary; I do not dispute that, that is just a dialectic process; but let us remain in the logic of the ÖVP! – and this has resulted in 99 percent of the damage to the Republic of Austria and only 1 percent, if one wants to do so, has led to the burdens of the BayernLB and the State of Bavaria behind it? [[Abg. Krainer:... be damaged!]] How could this happen, even though a mail traffic exists, where it is rereadable? We will also present that. [[Abg. Krainer:... damage to taxpayers... at the ratio!]] The research committees in Bavaria have worked much better and faster, and the BayernLB itself, together with the Bavarian state government, assumes that this is similar to half-half. They did not expect them to find such strange negotiators. That was absurd! You can't talk about this pressure you're talking about all the time. If you put the EU Commission and the European Central Bank into play: may be. I know, 2009 was a critical situation: one year after the financial crisis, system relevance in the Balkans – everything right. But who said that the pressure from the ECB and the Commission did not exist on Bavaria? They were the owners! Well, hello? - Well, of course! Only our negotiators were so stupid and have allowed this to be pushed in in this way. You didn't count on that. Now I come to the crucial point: That would have been so necessary for this, but still for other reasons – a nationalization without need! That's the point! You can show me a hundred times to Carinthia. That's all right! But that doesn't leave you out of the responsibility for what you did afterwards. No, it's just the other way around. If you already know exactly what went wrong in Carinthia – and at that time you should have known that – and then the Bavaria have doubled that – even this statement was right, you all have a bit right – then what did the Republic Summit do to reimport a completely contaminated institute – more toxic is not at all? This can only be explained by the fact that we did not have a finance minister, but rather a Raiffeisen minister who came from Raiffeisen, who went to Raiffeisen, who invited Raiffeisen people to the ministry – some of them are still sitting today, some of them have been nominated by the Federal Minister. [[Consistency with greens and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. May. Vavrik]] They have organized this, and now it fits again – thank you, Mr President –: [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] Raiffeisen, of course, is a useful user compared to the variant that was threatened, because it should have paid for three hypos – quite rightly, what are the liability associations for? And the same Raiffeisenlandesbanks are completely, completely entrapped with politics. Donation to the ÖVP – for what purpose? Open everything! What have the beneficiaries done for this? – Among other things, such villains made. And that's clear!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14913	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e14958	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers here in the hall and in front of the TV screens! I should also like to welcome Mr Strache here, because he has not been there all day today. I want to stay with you right now, because the Freedom Party of Carinthia has made an issue today, and I hope that your financial knowledge is much better than the geographical knowledge of the Freedom Party in Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] The mortgage company is not based in New Jersey, but on Jersey. Jersey is a canal island, and New Jersey is a little further away. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Tamandl.]] [[Abg. Neubauer:... funny!]] – That's what I said. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... are still in Jersey!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Don't need to believe it's better in New Jersey!]] But I'll stay with you right now, I want to make a short puzzle with you. I would like to make a short crossword puzzle with you, and I would like to ask you the following – three letters –: Unresponsiveness, how do you spell it out? – FPÖ. Which politicians and what group are responsible for the hypo-miser, including three letters? – FPÖ. What's the name of the arsonist who pours oil into the fire? – FPÖ. [[Call the FPÖ:Kaiser!]] And who changes the role of the perpetrator with the role of the victim? – FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And who was the fire accelerator...?]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] People know who's going on, people know who's to blame, because the country election in Carinthia was minus 28 percent, I think, the best answer the people in Carinthia could ever give. Those who give you the confidence can actually add the drinking money to the thief. [[Call to the Greens:... people must already be allowed to choose!]] I'm just asking you: How long do we want to think about something? We have to decide once, or you have to decide whether you want to delete the fire together now or whether you want to continue pouring oil into the fire. I almost think you want to keep pouring oil into the fire. The price of the failures and actions that have already occurred is high enough. And if there's a political debt at the hypo, then she's got three letters again. – FPÖ. [[Abg.: (in the direction of President Ing. Hofer) I would ask for the minutes!]] The whole thing reminds me a little of Faustus and Mephisto: “I am the Spirit who always refuses!” Always argue contraryly, always create denial, confusion and draw the benefit – no matter what price! I have in my hands the preliminary report of the Kärntner Investigation Committee. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] It's not like there's never been an investigation committee before. The Committee president was, after all, the Green Member Holub, and I may briefly quote, “It can be found that the emergency stateization of HGAA could have been prevented if all the Bank’s declared operational weaknesses had been fixed in a timely and comprehensive manner since 2001. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann]] In this respect, political responsibility lies in the context of the national liability of the relevant financial partners, Ing. Karl Pfeifenberger, Dr. Jörg Haider and Mag. Harald Dobernig.” [[Abg. May. Kogler: Until 2007!]] Now I ask again: three letters? – FPÖ. Return to the request concerning the Committee of Inquiry: I mean, every day the mister lasts longer, it just costs a lot of money, money from all Austrians, but also money from ourselves. The Hypo Alpe-Adria must be given a solution, absolutely now. And it is now important to ensure that the reputation of Austria is not put at risk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] There are currently criminal proceedings under way, and I am convinced that they will also answer the good or most of the questions asked in the near future. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This has nothing to do with political responsibility!]] I'm allowed to quote for a moment: ==References== October 2008 started the first hypo-process in Klagenfurt, cults were guilty of forgery in the balance sheet; [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] March 2011: the beginning of the Styrian Spirit process; 2012: Infidelity in Liechtenstein business; 2012: Hypo-process, and so on and immediately, Martinez, and so on. [[Call the FPÖ:Martinz!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Martinz belongs...!]] If I listen to you, Mr Strache, I am not actually for a U committee. I think it's also about the opposition being constructive, and I often miss you. A bank place is also a matter of trust, and if you hack as much wood as you, Mr. Strache, then that is really harmful. [[Abg. Street: Hide – SPÖ!]] I think you have to discuss constructively, and this also includes a constructive opposition. And that, ladies and gentlemen, was not what I said, but it was the Deputy editor-in-chief of the “Kurier” at “In the Centre” yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In this sense, I really want to appeal to all the parties to the opposition: We need to find a common way. Let us put aside the political collection of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] We need a solution for Austria, which is good for all Austrians. We need the best solution, and for that I'm available, but not for the Kasperl Theatre, which otherwise goes on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15191	The next speaker was Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15212	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home on TV screens! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: On the TV screens!]] I listened to Mr Kogler and read the Taferl before, and I heard what you said to Mr Wolf, my colleague – I do not think it was a week ago that you and Mr Klubobmann were in Mr Wolf’s ‘ZiB 2’ together – there on the question of the committee of inquiry: [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, because the spindlegger...!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, because your people don't come! - Excuse me when you're on TV once?- Oh, my God!]] Now it is, I believe, necessary that we work out the hypo once, and when it is done, we should look for the politically responsible person. - Those were your words, that's about a week ago. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you were also present at the time, and that was actually the only... [[Abg. Strache: It wasn't my words!]] It was not their words, but those were the words of Mr Kogler, and I am therefore surprised that you are making a request here today. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are uninstructable!]] I think it has been said so much today in these eight and a half hours, and I do not want to stand there now and say: Okay, it's actually all been said, but not yet by everyone. Politically, we know all of this. I missed the content of the experts a little bit today. A committee of inquiry in Carinthia has been presented twice what has come out today. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That has nothing to do...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Nationalization!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But if one is talking about political responsibility – and a committee of inquiry is mainly about political responsibility – then I say that there are already some political leaders who are still in the policy of which we know that they were responsible at the time. [[Abg. Tight: Emperor!]] On the other hand, there is the Federal Council Hall, and we know that the former head of state of Carinthia, Mr. Dörfler, is in the Federal Council. [[Call the ÖVP: For whom?]] We also know who was the chief negotiators of Carinthia at the end of 2009. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, the Carinthians have gone well anyway! The Federation is the Depp, that's why we have to look into it!]] That was the head of state, the financial officer, and Martinz of our party was there too, we do not need to hide that at all. I remember how they drove home and sold it the next day as a great success. The experts also said that Carinthia is twice the winner. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... that's why we have to examine it!]] We've heard all of this. At that time, so that it has succeeded, we have also paid approximately €200 million to ensure that it has entered the state. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, that's not enough!]] As I am now looking up there and you, Mr Darmann, see: At the end of 2009, you were also active as a Klubobmann deputy in the Kärntner Landtag, and you were fully involved at the time and approved this matter at the time. What I want to say is that at the time, no matter what party was meant and made the best way to get a grip on this problem of hypo, the responsible party at the time. [[Abg. May. Darmann: You have had a knowledge gap! You've been negotiating for months!]] But we know where the real sins of death were, that's what we've heard today. This is within the liability area, which has gone up to €25 billion. And we also know that, in order that Carinthians at the time, when selling in 2006, we have achieved an ordinary price to hold back the liability – not the liability for the future Bavarian Landesbank, but for those transactions that the Hypo has made until 2006. But to one point I still come, yesterday a broadcast went out from the Freedom Party in Carinthia. Now I would like to speak specifically to the Carinthian Members here in the hall: The opposition parties keep speculating that one should send the hypo into bankruptcy. You are certainly aware of Carinthian representatives of the opposition parties, you represent what this means to Carinthia?! – This means bankruptcy for Carinthia. This means the resolution of the future fund for Carinthia. [[Calls for Greens and NEOS.]] No one can tell me how this is going, and all experts say it: You can't cash liability commissions on one side and on the other hand, if someone is sent in bankruptcy, you can't stand up for this liability commission. [[Yes, with greens and NEOS.]] [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] And there, I think, I'm really appealing to the Carinthians: Think what you are doing when you take the word “construction ” into your mouth, what you are doing with our homeland Carinthia! [[Abg. May. Darmann: You have to listen! Listen, my colleague.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mlinar: Who caused this?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: You have...!]] You're sending Carinthia into bankruptcy. And the only way that Carinthia – it's already done enough damage, the taxpayer's got it anyway – is to get out of the matter half as well, that the hypo is being handled, as is done with experts in the Ministry of Finance. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Any bankruptcy of the hypo would be the bankruptcy of the country of Carinthia, and if your Carinthian deputies want to share this responsibility, then you must face it once! [[Abg. May. Darmann: Who says that? Listen and don't make something...! A whore!]] We from the ÖVP and your Carinthian deputies from the SPÖ, we certainly do not want this! I would therefore ask you to return to the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15485	Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15501	The responsibility is to look for it to be done, because we also want to know who was politically responsible, and that will also come to the table. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15538	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15560	Mr President. If I have now listened to the words of my previous speaker, both of whom are convinced, Mr. Unterrainer, that the fault lies only with the liberals, then there is nothing against us making a committee of inquiry, because then the truth comes to light. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Vavrik.]] What you're doing is just throwing nebula grenades. Such a thing that happened to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, I'll give you the right thing, never happen again! It is therefore also necessary to clarify the question of indebtedness. And it's very significant that we know what happened. We want to know: Who's responsible? What happened? When did the crucial mistake happen? How has this been done? We all know nothing about each other, so we need an investigation committee. Finally, we need the Bayern, which was finally responsible. And then, too, Bavaria – and that has not yet been addressed at all today – should speak and answer in a committee of inquiry as to how they see the matter. Then something will come out quite differently than you originally represent it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a lot to clarify. First of all, the failure of control should be resolved. There have been controls at different levels, it has been addressed more often today: The Supervisory Board, who occupied him, who was in there? Were these just liberals? - I don't think so. Then it is about the supervisory bodies of the individual owners: Who sent the Bavaria? Who sent the GRAVE? Who sent the country Carinthia? Who made a statement of confirmation on the balance sheet? They then confirmed that the balance sheets were in order. – So that too should be clear! Then the role of the National Bank is clarified. In 2008, the National Bank confirmed that the mortgage will make profits in 2009, and it was “not distressed”, as it is so beautifully called in Neudeutsche. It's about the role of the FMA. I would have expected that the FMA would have done the same thing as in the case of Staudinger. That's where they showed courage all at once. Or the role of FIMBAG has already been clarified today, so who is all sitting in FIMBAG and at the same time in the task force, and so on. There would also have to be a control body of the hypo's bond of liability. The hypos are interconnected with each other by a bond of liability, and there are also control bodies, similar to those of the savings banks with the Sparkassenverband or with the Volksbanken or with the Raikas. Even as the balance sheets are checked, you never heard anything. It's interesting who was in charge of control at all. These people then sit in the Task Force – no wonder that they reject insolvency. Insolvency would make the whole thing legal. An independent court could bring much more light to light. That's to question! Did you make the bock a gardener? This question should also be clarified. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, just the beautiful weather captains to storm!]] I'll give you that right, Mrs. Moser. No matter what it is called, in all cases these two gentlemen are incapable and not interested in an investigation. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] However, it is also important to clarify the questions as to how the bond of liability will look in the future. It is to be clarified who is still carrying contributions. The Graz monetary needle has been addressed, the Carinthian monetary needle, or the country of Carinthia at the end, which still holds the future fund. And even the unsuspecting, unsuspecting Hannes Androsch has said that in 2009 – so we, the Federal Government – we were allowed to pull over the table. And if the Hannes Androsch says that... After all, he's a prominent SPÖ man. You always have such a beautiful statistics on expanding customer loans, Mr. Lopatka: I can present another statistics, which is much more interesting: the expansion of customer credit, not the balance sheet sum. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] And this was increased by 50 percent under Bavarian ownership from just under 20 to 30 million €. So I think the Bayern have taken the obvious risk. Long speech, short sense: We do not pass a committee of inquiry, and today's debate has shown that this committee of inquiry is more necessary than ever!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15620	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15642	Mr President. In these days, all of us, but also the media and Austrians, in their role as taxpayers, are primarily concerned with a topic that is hypo-Alpe-Adria. And one has to imagine that we had a Finance Minister here today, who was asked 73 questions, and he has practically given no answers to these 73 questions. He just left out many blocks of reply, no answer. This concerns, for example, the question of the violation of rules, the possible malversations of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but this also concerns the issue of emergency nationalization and much more. Yes, if we have a Finance Minister standing here, who at the same time calls for a national closure from all of us here in this House, I cannot, under any circumstances, agree to this unless we have a cooperative finance minister who also gives the necessary answers to the questions he is asked. If the Minister of Finance is not prepared to give the necessary answers here in the plenary and in the financial committee, then we will need this U-committee very urgently, on various issues to clarify different things. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler shows a sign with the title: “HYPO: CONCLUSIONS FOR U-OPERATION!”]] We must look at the following: We already had the Hypo Alpe-Adria in an investigation committee, where we had to do with blackened files, that was 2006 to 2007, and then when we came to the Hypo Alpe-Adria and to the money laundering salon Hypo Alpe-Adria, on the question of painting, on the question of the whole speculation that has been operated in this bank, it has suddenly been said that the U-committee is being turned off. It is all the more necessary that, after much has happened in the meantime, we are now using this Committee of Inquiry with the focus on the most urgent things to be clarified. They have already been addressed by the previous speakers: This is where we have the emergency state. Was that really an emergency nationalization? What really happened around this emergency state? What was it, then, that led Mr. Josef Pröll and Mr. Andreas Schieder to carry out this emergency nationalization? What were these two gentlemen finally extortionable with? But what was also in the run-up to this emergency nationalization, in 2008, with the opinion of the Austrian National Bank, which this bank has issued in advance a more or less good witness? The testimony wasn't sound, so it wasn't a healthy bank, it was clear to me. But the judgment was not distressed, so indisputable. Then, after good Austrian manners, one agreed on a term that was “non-distressed”. Yeah, what's that? A bank that is “non-distressed”? So either a bank is distressed, then it is in need, then it belongs to locked up, or a bank is sound, then it is healthy, then it belongs to continued – but “non-distressed”, that is this Austrian slutting. And these things around this report are clarified! One must imagine, in this opinion, that the Bank would achieve 2009 profits, that the Bank would also be able to repay the dividends for the participation capital that it received at the end of 2008. Not a single cent has been landed by the Hypo Alpe-Adria for this €900 million budget. On the contrary! Around €3.5 billion are permanently lost to this bank. However, it is also necessary to clarify the removal of the procedure. Why, then, did Mrs Fekter not bring about a solution? Why did she drag this procedure off? Why did she not have the courage to tell Austrians in the run-up to the National Council election, this bank will cost us a lot of money, this bank will increase our national debt? Why didn't she do it? – We urgently want to investigate all of this. But we also want to examine what this task force has done. Yes, “Taskforce, ” my God, once said to “workgroup, ” now this is a“ task force. ” What's behind it? And what do the gentlemen – I think it's a men's circle, I don't know exactly who's sitting in there – what did this gentleman's circle actually do in there? They have always worked on a model, the so-called participation model. They always wanted to involve the banks, but well-known that this participation model would always have been among the most expensive models, because of course it would have been necessary to pay the banks proper interest for it. The example of Spain has shown this very clearly. In short, there are very, very many questions that can be resolved in the context of a committee of inquiry, and we need them, otherwise there will probably be no national close on these issues. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15699	As the next speaker, I would ask Mr Vetter to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15721	Mr President. High house! I too fully support the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, and I am of course also interested in the topics raised here, in particular the emergency nationalization in 2009. The question has also been raised here as to how these Federal Governments, the Finance Ministers, were blackmailed at the time. Circumstances of this night from the 13th to the 14th. I'm just as interested as the green financial speaker who said to me a few weeks ago after a television show: You'll still wonder how often we agree. – You were really right, it’s surprising how often you can be of an opinion. I just don't want one, that we're turning away from what's happening and what's being done by just looking into the past. I do not want us to stand here in five years and then ask ourselves what the government was able to do in 2014 because it was epressible that it had chosen this establishment solution to take over a total liability. The emergency nationalization of that time obviously cost much less money than the establishment solution that is now being thought of. It has been addressed who has failed in the control: Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we simply overestimate the FMA and other control facilities if we believe that they could prevent any nonsense being made in this country. It can't stop the police from killing anyone. They usually come too late. It is the thing itself that has been wrong It is. The liability was wrong, the emergency stateization was wrong, and I also mean that the institution solution is wrong today. It's no coincidence that the big scandals are always in the state area. It's not just the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Salzburg and Linz have already been addressed today. When I think about the fact that there has been advocacy in Linz on the grounds that the poor are supposed to recognize local politicians, I can just as well imagine that sometime in some cases, even in connection with the case we are discussing today, a judge comes to a similar conclusion: So how should the poor politicians turn out at night from 13th to 14th. December 2009 were overwhelmed, because in fact recognize? I also do not want to live up to those who consider the Committee on Inquiry to be less important than the current decision on what happens to the Hypo Alpe-Adria. While – I have already said this today – Rome advises, Sagunt perishes! We must focus our first attention on what is happening to the Hypo Alpe-Adria now, and then focus our entire attention on the reconnaissance of this case! I am therefore in favour of supporting this committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15769	The last speaker was Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15790	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Estimated government bank! [[Call:There's no one on the government bank]] Dear citizens! That's the end of the debate today, and I'm trying to sum up: What remains of this day? I think we can, as Sukkus from this special meeting, draw the conclusion relatively reliably that there will be an investigation committee, but that is a matter of time. The Committee of Inquiry will be there; the pressure has grown considerably today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I'm allowed to quote: "As a Member of Parliament, we are kept extremely short as far as information is concerned. Although it is ultimately up to us to make a responsible decision in the interest of the citizens." Who's that from? – From NEOS, from the Greens, from the FPÖ, from the Stronach team? – No, this is from Daniela Holzinger, SPÖ, and today she also recommends an investigative committee on her blog page. We say: Thank you. [[Congratulations with NEOS, Team Stronach, Greens and FPÖ.]] Mrs. Holtinger, you can get up again four times. [[Abg. Rädler: Who is this?]] – This is a SPÖ member. But I would not call from the ÖVP side because I can quote a head of state “The population has a right to full information. [[Abg. Kickl: Again?]] Finally, public debt will rise, and this will limit the scope of the next few years in Austria.” “I have the impression,” says your head of state from Vorarlberg, “that several years have gone to the country where you could have acted more quickly. [[towards ÖVP]] How to do it in other countries. And the damage with it has kept in check.” That means, dear ÖVP, there are of course also in your ranks top functionaries and national leaders who already openly admit: Her laviering has led to great damage. They will not resist the pressure, so I recommend the following – as the Economic Union finally understood – to you: There are protest movements that can be observed, and at some point – Mr. Leitel was of this opinion – one comes to the conclusion: Best of all, I'm putting myself at the head of the protest movement so as not to be overwhelmed by her. – You did this in the profit-free amount and in the GmbH light; I recommend that you make it to the Examining Committee. Of course, you can give the concreteists, only at the end of the day will the investigation committee come, the own front crumbles. That is why I propose the following: Why don't we take advantage of the months? Now make a confession, dear SPÖ, dear ÖVP: Yeah, we're making an investigation committee! – You have abdominal pain regarding the instrument of the Committee of Inquiry, then you can discuss it. So I also see that this instrument should be re-adjusted here, only at some point you have to do it, otherwise you will get back there in the autumn and say: But we don't want such an investigation committee! That's why: Make a press conference tomorrow and say: We adapt the instrument, learn from other countries as they do, and in autumn we go to an investigation committee. – But you have to make the confession, otherwise the pressure of the opposition will of course continue to rise. And one thing is clear: We opposition will march here. If you think you can divide us, then you've cheated. We will, of course, march together: FPÖ, Greens, Team Stronach, NEOS. . Okay, we'll put four requests on the table today, but we'll be presenting a joint proposal soon. Don't worry, we'll talk together, and then people will have to make a revelation out of their own ranks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] Finally, I come back to my starting point from early: It's a systemic problem. Again: Yesterday it was the Telekom or the BAWAG, yesterday it was Salzburg with €1.8 billion, today it is the hypo, and tomorrow it can be something else. . We must launch a democratic spring in this country. I would like – once again – to advocate a federalism reform urgently, otherwise we will not get under control of these phenomena. It will continue to exist, only the dimensions will rise. And we also need a renewal of the right to vote, the right to vote, so that we can get out of this felt. We need a system renewal here and finally we also need one – and I conclude with a wish for the ÖVP and the SPÖ: One of these two parties must come into a comprehensive renewal, otherwise we will have Italian conditions for a short or long time. It won't be better if you break away! A People's Party can't be a hollow event in political terms; of course, it must have a radiance, an integration force, a content, a strategic, it must also have it in person and structurally renew itself again and again. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]] For this renewal I wish you everything, all good, you and you. [[towards ÖVP and SPÖ]] And if it costs us 2%, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15892	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Dr. Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. I would also like to mention Mr Ddr's request. Fuchs, colleagues and others will vote for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of Mr Ddr's request. Fuchs vote, yes, those who vote against to throw “No ” vote in the urn. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Lueger, to start with the name call, and may inform her that she will later be replaced by Mr Buchmayr.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e15985	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e16025	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 162; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 66, No votes: 96. This is the request of Mr Ddr. Fuchs, colleagues, and others. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Ertlschweiger; Fuchs; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Kunasek; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pok, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Treasure, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik, Vetter, Vilimsky; Walser, Refusor, Willi, Winter, Worm Peter. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Mayer, muchich, muttons; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rudas; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e16215	Let me now turn to the request made by the honourable Member. To vote for the setting up of an investigative committee. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Finally, I have to vote on the request made by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:04:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-02-17-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00011_d8e16263	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 221/A(E) to 231/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 639/J to 655/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council for Monday, 24. February 2014, 11 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
