ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3583	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The meeting was opened. The Official Protocol of 43. Meeting of 16 March 1990 In October 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the President-in-Office of the Council is reported. Hofer, Keck, Knes, Mag. Kuntzl, Mag. Aslan, Mag. Vavrik. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3614	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Deputy Chancellor Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner is appointed by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics Dr. Harald Mahrer, the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 11.50 and from ORF III. [[09:06:37]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3671	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Security instead of Islamization and asylum chaos!” Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. I give it to him and make him aware that his speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3698	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, with security in Austria, God is not the best. If you address the permanent caputt-saving, which is currently taking place in the security area – not only the federal army, but unfortunately God also in the executive – then you cannot be pleased. Security is a great asset, and many in the Austrian population today are rightly concerned about the development of Austria due to the austerity measures, due to the reduction in the security sector. I say it's a shame when planning stations are shortened, guard rooms are closed, executive officials don't even receive the necessary personal equipment. With all that is present in deficits, it is only possible to have great respect for the executives for what they do and to achieve daily. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, all the worse in times when crime is constantly rising and growing, radical Islamism is even more frenzied in Austria than ever its ugly head – and we unfortunately had there God's developments, which should actually open our eyes to everyone – and even in the asylum field quite chaotic states. The danger of Islamism is more evident than ever – not only because of the developments that we have to experience in the Middle East, but also because of the radical-Islamist movement, the IS, but also when IS terrorists are tossed as refugees to Austria. That is where we must take action. Unfortunately, in the past, we have already had to experience God's experience that asylum seekers and even those who have received asylum status in Austria, then – at present – have traveled to hundreds of these regions, to Syria, Iraq, to fight there as radical Islamists and terrorists. This shows that there's a lot going wrong. As regards asylum procedures, there must therefore also be a review of the asylum seekers for radical-Islamist tendencies in order to stop such developments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Satisfaction slogans are not in place in the face of this acute threat. Only because a handful of suspected IS fighters in Austria sit in U-port, others will not be deterred from entry. And the Minister of the Interior will not seriously assume that the prospect of perhaps entering Austria as an IS terrorist will prevent “God warriors” from coming here and trying to get into our society. It is therefore not enough to prevent suspected terrorists from leaving, but we must do everything we can to prevent and prevent these terrorists from entering. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] It cannot be, therefore, that such IS terrorists may again be able to hide asylum rights and, in the end, be able to go back to their terrorist business here with us under this guise. And that there are networks of radical Islamism in Austria, the Western intelligence services also say. They also noted that in Europe next to Sarajevo Vienna is already the second network hub and is also one of the main priorities of these structures. One thing has to be clear to us as well: Peaceable living together in the large European family is, of course, necessary, and this also requires a minimum of mutual respect, respect and recognition, and ultimately a minimum of the cultural commons that one is willing to accept – and a worship of other cultures, regardless of whether out of misunderstood tolerance or cowardice, we reject. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Experience has shown that it does not lead to gratitude and appreciation for those concerned, but, on the contrary, often to greater contempt for a Western society that is perceived as decadent, which does not even stand at its own values. And if there are threefold demands of certain circles, including immigrants from the Muslim area, which are always assessed by willing good people – then it is important to break through them. It must therefore be very clear to us: All that has to do with the union of the Islamic State belongs to us forbidden, not only the symbols, but also everything that has to do with the structure and, of course, also with the oppression of women. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] That is prohibited, it is prohibited, and we have very, very, very defensively to oppose it. There are already 21 Salafist kindergartens in Austria, mainly in Vienna, which are partly supported by the political authorities. I mean, then one can only wonder what kind of responsibilities are at work here, which then also support such structures, through which such radicals are partly created. Or we'll take asylum policy back! . Thanks to the policy of this government, we are at the heart of education policy in the European Union, for which we are at the forefront of tax and tax policy, but unfortunately God is also when it comes to being a leader in the reception of asylum seekers when it comes to the quota. There we are behind Malta and Sweden. This is then again and again presented in a completely different way in the public debate. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Korun and Mr Steinhauser.]] We have done great things in Austria since 1950, you really have to say: Respect for this overall performance! Since 1950, 1.3 million people have been admitted to Austria, who have fled as asylum seekers, who have found a stay here – and that in a total population, which, when compared, has really achieved an incredibly great achievement. Last year alone, there were 17 500 asylum applications, which is more than Iron Town in peak season has inhabitants. We have had 25 000 new applications a year before that, at present there are 17 500. And it is proven that 80 percent of the asylum seekers have no asylum grounds, which is also legally established by independent Austrian courts. 20 percent of the asylum seekers dive into illegality every year and may then be found there or there in criminal machinations. When it comes to the deportation of such persons, who have become criminal, we often experience that right from the left side of the estate, the execution officials are then also criminalized. I say that our officials really deserve the fullest support, because this can and must not be the case that, when it comes to such, actually logical and legal consequences, one goes here and tries to criminalise the officials. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: What do you mean?]] One thing is clear: We will not be able to cope with the international flows of refugees in Europe. That's where international agreements are needed. We will, of course, be able to solve problems in this world only in the problem regions on the ground. And it takes international agreements to solve African problems also on the African continent and Asians in Asia. We don't have enough space for all the troubles in this world. And that must also be held! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will not be able to record everyone in Europe or Austria. International refugee camps and humanitarian care facilities, for example, need to be made possible in Africa with international assistance. There would be a lot to move with European and American help and a lot to do. It has to be said that the Americans are also much more obliged to take, because if I think of the bombings in Afghanistan or also in Iraq or other regions, I miss the awareness of the responsibility that the Americans have there, and I do not see the ships that would have traveled to the region to get refugees out after they have left destruction there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But one of the major problems is that a non-insignificant proportion of asylum seekers is unfortunately undermined and often later picked up when it comes to criminal careers, to burglary, other areas. Unfortunately, that also becomes more visible to God. Now that you, Madam Minister of the Interior, have done the greater distribution at the reception quotas, it is often felt that where you have closed police stations, asylum centres are now obviously being created. You have to say this critically. And, of course, the population in these regions is heavily concerned about this development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 80 percent of asylum proceedings are completed within six months thanks to the judicial optimization. You have to say that luckily, in these eight months, something has gone on. It is quite reasonable, however, to also make a Kasernernung or use barracks sites if necessary, which has been excluded. – It seems that what basic defence servants have to expect is not to be expected of asylum seekers, as we have had to learn over and over the last few weeks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to finally talk about setting a reasonable ceiling on how many asylum seekers can take up Austria at all, and we are, of course, limited because of resources and opportunities. We are not the ones that trigger the crises in this world. I say that there are other nations by name, which have delivered bombing quotas and are also making mega-profits with arms trafficking, but in the end they are often out of humanitarian responsibility. And if so, then in our opinion we should, of course, include women and children and, ultimately, persecuted Christian people, especially in the current crisis in Syria and Iraq. That too will not be fulfilled again! We have set a quota of 1 000 people in this House, and again far more than 600 are non-Christians. However, Christians have no chance at all of finding protection and refuge in this region, except in Europe, while the Islamic states are very likely to have a responsibility to act accordingly. I say there is a lot to do, there is a need for rethinking, even if there or there, of course, there is a call again, because we are addressing the problems openly here. But it is necessary to rethink. And I say, That's where we know the population by the majority on our side!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3826	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. Your speaking time, Mrs. Federal Minister, should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3847	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in Syria is dramatic and remains dramatic, and we all know the images that come to us daily via the media, through the TV screens. They are images of terror, images of terror and persecution, and we also need to be aware that precisely these threats, which the terrorists pose, do not stop at our borders, that there is a potential for threats on the shoulders of Europe as a whole. In addition, people from Europe, including Austria, are constantly going to the crisis areas to join the fight there. According to the EU Anti-Terrorist Commissioner de Kerchove's assessment, a number of some 3,000 Foreign Fighters come from Europe. We know that 150 people have gone to war from Austria alone, that 30 have already died, have died, and that 60 people have already returned to Austria from the struggle. And these 60 people are right in the focus of state protection, the protection of the constitution, with a view to dealing with it carefully and repeatedly pointing out that such persons can also be a ticking time bomb. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On the basis of these figures, facts and figures, both at European and Austrian level, the fight against terrorism must be a very important and priority concern for us. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Wenninger.]] It is therefore not the case that last week the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I invited to a summit against hatred and hetze, which was about us – politicians together with experts and, above all, practitioners – to consider what further measures we can take to counter this radicalization and to announce the fight against terrorism. As we know, there are a lot of measures to be taken. It needs repressive, preventive and also legal measures. I think we should look at what we've done in recent years. – I am thinking of 2010, the terrorist paragraphs, I am thinking of the many operational and legal measures we have taken, of measures, such as the strengthening of the human rights of the state. We have undertaken to increase state protection by 20 people; 20 people who, of course, need to be selected specifically, because of the need for very special knowledge here, also have a special intercultural and interreligious understanding, with particular emphasis on competence in the field of Islam sciences. However, I am also thinking of our legislative measures, which we have worked intensively in recent months – measures which are currently under review and which are to be decided here in Parliament shortly: the Terror symbol law, the amendment of the citizenship law and the revision of the border control law. These are many important measures to manage, to prevent young people from moving into jihad, and above all to be able to show quite clear consequences. I believe it is really important to draw a very clear line between the ISIS and Salafism on the one hand and Islam on the other, because we know that the terrorists are not primarily about religion, but only about one thing, namely violence, violence and, on the other hand, violence. When we announce the fight against IS terrorism, it does not only need the security authorities, it does not just need the police, but it needs a general social approach and a social interaction. The following questions are also crucial in this context: Why do many young people move into Jihad? Why are many people violently willing to go into battle and murder there, rape and persecute many other people? [[Abg. Kickl: Would you like to explain to us that Austria is to blame? Do you want to explain this to us?]] One thing is also important: Here it simply needs training, here it takes perspectives for young people to be able to stop them from radicalization. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That means Austria is to blame, or what does that mean?]] Prevention is certainly a very important answer, and prevention must begin in kindergarten, school and education. It must begin by conveying to young people an understanding that there are different religions and different nations, because only by building a mutual understanding can we escape the ground of violence. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe you can import fewer problems too!]] It is also crucial to me that we use the new media, the online media, in particular to prevent young people from being radicalized and going into battle. We will continue to work hard on this in the next few weeks and months. Mr Klubobmann Strache has said it correctly, many people are on the run, many people are fleeing from this terror, fleeing from violence. Here we have a responsibility, namely to give support and refuge to those people who flee from jihadism. We see it by the numbers that rise. On average, 800 refugees of war are seeking asylum every week in Austria. I admit that this is a major challenge for all of us – a challenge for Austria, but also for Europe as a whole, but it cannot be that ten EU Member States achieve over 90 percent of all asylum applications. This is a failure at European level, a failure which must be eliminated. There is only one answer here, a very clear demand: There is a need for a mandatory quota for all Member States so that all Member States can also fulfil this responsibility, so that all Member States can take up war refugees equally! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we will continue to stick to this demand and, especially in this area, we will continue negotiations at European level. However, I would also like to use this framework, this National Council meeting, to say a thank you – thanks to the countries, the municipalities and the Federation for this joint cooperation when it comes to creating quarters for war refugees. This is important and necessary, because only then can we achieve this common task. I know this is a great effort. However, I am also pleased that more and more communities, more and more mayors open the doors to give protection and support to refugees of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3940	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Pendl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e3964	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the galleries and in front of the TV screens! I think we're talking about a general government task here. However, I would like to say at the outset, Mr Klubob-man, that: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and Vienna is one of the safest cities in the world! The Austrians deserve that we discuss this important question of general government very objectively and unagitatedly and do not even get into the water of polemization or that other ideas are behind these discussions. I have said it very often, and it is always the same, apparently one has to say, it is to be read – I am saving myself for time-consuming reasons – who has the greatest board of directors to share with the executive. These were two members of the government, including the FPÖ. The last government, although it was very laborious in these economically difficult times, has also provided 1 000 executive planning posts, 500 management plans from the telecoms sector, from the postal sector, and the current Federal Government has again undertaken to provide another 1 000 planning posts for the executive. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That just doesn't do anything!]] If there is always talk of security deficits here, you have to look into the mirror and ask: When did what happen? – I really thank all the police who do excellent work for this republic and for our citizens. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Kickl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I myself come from a community that lies 4 kilometres next to the famous “first place” Traiskirchen – it is said today. As a contemporary witness, I could tell you how it was in 1956, but I don't want to, I just want to tell you that ten years ago, compared to today, we had twice as high numbers of refugees. Was the discussion then as emotionalised and unnecessarily pushed up as it is today? - No, I don't. If we really have to divide between 1,500 and 2,000 people in Austria, then I remember, without emotions – and I am always for the general government solution – the following: We should not even discuss this with 2 300 municipalities. This number of 2 300 communities in solidarity, humane, humane division, is no problem at all. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] I am one of those who have always taken the floor and said that we are unfortunately unable to take up economic refugees. That's it! [[Abg. Kickl: Mayor Alliance! Volunteers in front!]] But today, when we are being delivered to the living rooms via the Internet, through the television coverage of this cruel, inhuman war, where we get hundreds of refugees from this room to argue here, ladies and gentlemen, I deeply reject this for the sake of humanity. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] It was the previous government that put the entire asylum system in new hands with regard to the apparatus and the authorities. I tell you, you can look all over Europe – across Europe! –: We are in the asylum process for three months until the first decision. That is correct in the rule of law. We're under ten months of legal proceedings. And if the case goes to the administrative court, we're about 15 months away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] – World champions in a rule of law throughout Europe, ladies and gentlemen! There too, we can only sincerely thank colleagues who are serving there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that we simply have the obligation to help in the sense of humanity. At the time, we have also followed the UN's decisions and have always contributed to the fact that we are giving them to those who need our help. Those who need help; I emphasize that again. With regard to the discussion on the IS, we asked last time, Mr Amon: Are we making own-initiative proposals or are we sending the necessary requests in consideration? For the sake of general democracy policy, we have sent them into consideration, but the government and the Federal Government have responded immediately. I really invite you to deal with and discuss this very sensitive question in a state-of-the-art way with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4062	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4083	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can join my colleagues Otto Pendlan seamlessly. I ask the question, Mr Klubobmann, what do you mean by your remarks? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What a surprise!]] Basically, what you're trying to represent here is a massive uncertainty of the population. You are creating uncertainty, Mr Strache, and this is very bad. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You're also talking bad about the country. It is no matter what topic you address, it starts with the question: “Security instead of Islamization”, as if anyone thought, we want Islamization in the country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kickl: Would you prefer the opposite?]] – Completely wrong! [[Abg. Strache: Your former Minister of Justice Saudi Centre will find heads!]] They say that we are at the end of education policy. You seem to have missed the rain of medals in professional competitions a few weeks ago. There has formally spread a rain of medals over all young people who are in dual education in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: Maybe talk to Mrs. Bandion-Ortner once!]] Mr Pendl pointed out that Austria, as a country, is one of the safest corporations in the world as a big city. [[Call the FPÖ:Do you really believe this?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You think so?]] – Yes, I don't believe that only, but the numbers prove that. That's reality. But you don't want it to be true. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Talk to the crime victims!]] The liberals have apparently raised it to their credo that everything must be bad. If it's running pretty well, you can't bear it. That's your problem. They say everything that has to do with Islamism, everything that has to do with this terrorist organization “Islamic State” is to be forbidden. Yeah, that's a good demand. Wonderful! Only: You're late, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. You don't do it!]] These laws have long been under review, and they will be passed here in the house. I am pleased to see if you will agree, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I'm excited about the Islam law!]] A clear word on asylum, too, Mr Strache. There were many Austrians who left the country between 1938 and 1945 and fled. [[Abg. Neubauer: Also between 1934 and 1938!]] There, too, Mr Neubauer, is no subject at all. But thank God the other countries did not ask: Are they Muslims? Is it Jews? Are they Christians? But they have received men out of a command of humanity. This is also the order of the hour, Mr Neubauer and Mr Strache. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] You say, Mr Strache: Asylum seekers review radical Islamic tendencies, but you remain guilty of proposals. [[Abg. Darmann: Of course!]] The aim is fine, Mr Strache, but what is your proposal? What's your proposal for this? The Federal Minister has put on the table proposals. Where are your proposals for this? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They say that these thousand refugees, which we are now taking up from Syria, are supposed to be virtually apart, since 600 Muslims are involved, the other part are Christians. – Well, that has to do with the quantity, because the main victims of the terror of the “Islamic State” are Muslims at the moment. Whether you want to do that or not, these are the main victims of this insane terror. And if you look at the numbers of refugees in absolute numbers, you'll find that we have declines in refugees from the Russian Federation by 43 percent, from Kosovo by 25.5 percent, from Nigeria by 22 percent, from Pakistan by 52 percent and from Iran by 9 percent. From these countries, the numbers of refugees go down, but they go up – quite massively – from those areas where there is war, namely Syria and Afghanistan. From there the numbers go up massively, Mr. Strache. This Minister of the Interior is due to the fact that we have a process praised by UNHCR as a best-practice model worldwide. Mr Strache, not bad words, but better proposals, if you have any. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And this minister – I conclude – is also fighting for a fair distribution at European level. Mr Strache, you reject this European Union, but in reality we need more Europe and no less Europe on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] If there were a fair distribution of quotas at European level, we would have had only half of asylum applications to deal with last year. So: More Europe, no less Europe! This hour, Mr Strache, unfortunately went empty.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4297	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4319	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and also at home in front of the screens that you – and this is not a bad step in the state, but the reality, ladies and gentlemen – in this asylum chaos in Austria almost overnight have to expect – all of you at home – to get an asylum home the next day in the morning by this Federal Minister or by the respective national refugee representative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the truth, ladies and gentlemen, that's not to be tossed! And this is a problem with which, as a politician, one has to deal with itself as a responsible politician at 100 percent. [[Abg. Strache: Without involvement of the community!]] What is it that helps ladies and gentlemen to stand out here, especially from the ranks of the government groups, including the Federal Minister of Justice, to live and refuse to see reality, to show a lack of sensitivity to the concerns of the population and to have a beautiful coloring of the current situation in Austria? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Steinhauser]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] [[Call to the Greens:Proposal!]] What can be improved with this? – Nothing, I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, because it is our responsibility to recognize, point out problems and, at best, to provide an immediate solution! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian as well as other intermediate calls to SPÖ and Greens.]] If, in the last days and weeks, the Minister of the Interior has already met several times with the spokesman of the national headquarters conference, the head of the state of Carinthia Dr. Peter Kaiser, and has thought of selling it to the population as a success, that the Republic of Austria has turned away the idea of congratulating the communities with quotas, I ask you: [[Abg. Steinhauser: What is your solution?]] What is the benefit of individual citizens, young people, living alone or in family relationships, when an interior minister on her desk can determine in a private economic contract in the evening – without informing the respective community without questioning the citizens – that an asylum home will be opened next day? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is the benefit of the citizen across Austria, upland, downland, if not only the Minister of the Interior is doing so, but also of the individual refugee representatives? It is all the more reprehensible, and this is also said that the head of state Peter Kaiser, in his role as chairman of the national conference, has also directed you, you should not do it. He himself does this regularly. He “raped” in Carinthia, landing down the population by bringing up asylum seekers without involving the population without hearing the opinion of the local population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a responsible approach to politics, as we liberals present to us. Rather, in the future it will be necessary – and this is already a solution approach, ladies and gentlemen, especially by SPÖ and ÖVP, because this was called upon by us – to consistently clean up asylum abuse, to bring the Shinasylants out of Austria, to postpone at the earliest possible time, all the economic refugees – and, of course, the 75 to 80 percent of all asylum seekers who only come here – – – Mr Colleague, that is again significant that you do not recognize these problems, although the statistics show, and the courts also decide accordingly that 80 percent of asylum seekers are economic refugees – who only come here to enrich themselves lawfully but also unlawfully to our social state. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] [[Abg. Richter!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Katzian.]] This has not deserved the Austrian population, which has an open heart to the other asylum seekers, who, according to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, have a right to get protection on time, and also the willingness to take up these actually persecuted refugees. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] However, it is also necessary to show the population that one does not allow abuse. They have there – and They have been responsible for decades, but especially in recent years – without measure. They would have the opportunity to put hundreds of thousands of these economic refugees who are using our social state at the doors of Austria every day and not to let them in. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also a Dublin Convention, international agreements that allow us to take our Austrian rights and say, for example, the Republic of Italy, that all refugees entering the European Union via Italy have first and foremost an asylum procedure from Italy and not from the Republic of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kristist]] The Austrian citizens do not have the responsibility to bear what has caused Italy, the European Union and, unfortunately, the Republic – by not doing the homework. [[Abg. Heinzl: For vomiting!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth, even if it hurts! Finally, I say to you: By the words and deeds ye shall measure them. – We heard the words, the beautiful speech. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Kickl.]] The actions have seen the population, because everything you yourself are not willing to do with courage and strength for the Republic of Austria, is being turned on as a problem to the population, and this is to bear it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] It can't be! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4528	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4567	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! [[Abg. Kickl: There's still room in union homes!]] We all know the cruel pictures of the last weeks and months, desperate refugees – women, children, men, old people, civilians fleeing from the IS terrorists. And you cannot help but call it crazy and infamble, ladies and gentlemen, just these victims of IS terror, to equate these protection seekers with the IS terrorists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This can only be rejected as a shabby game on the back of the poorest who are fleeing just from this terror. [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the common position to the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment for ……]] Yes, our country has a good, great tradition in granting this protection to those people who need protection. In the current crisis in Syria and Iraq, we must look at the specific figures. Lebanon, which is not exactly a large country, and above all not a politically stable one, has received 1.5 million Syrian refugees, Jordan more than half a million, Turkey now has about two million refugees. These are the concrete figures. The true tragedies of protection seekers are taking place elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen, and this is also true. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not want to go further into the usual in-a-pot molding of the FPÖ. There everything – Islam, IS, terror, asylum, protection and immigration – is mixed. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Pilz.]] This is the usual policy we know about the FPÖ. However, if we are talking about terrifying conditions and negative developments, we must also devote ourselves to a current issue, the so-called King Abdullah Dialogue Centre, which came about here in the house with the most active support of our government parties and colleagues. I have a talk here to the Council of Ministers on 17 November. November 2010 by then Minister of Foreign Affairs Spindelegger, in which it reads: “The idea of establishing a centre for interreligious and intercultural dialogue is based on the initiative of Saudi King Abdullah”. This is the monarchist ruler in whose country 60 people were killed by heads just this year. This is the country where women are not even allowed to drive. This is the country in which Islamic minorities themselves are persecuted, for example the Shiites. This is the country in which Israeli citizens and female citizens are not allowed to enter. And this is the land in which the punishment of death is a waste of faith. [[Abg. Kickl: Look, and both parties are their coalition partners!]] And this is exactly the country that our federal government has chosen as a dialogue partner, since 2010 this is in progress. In the presentation to the Council of Ministers, it is also noted that – I say – the dialogue initiative is – I quote, “in its statutes it is also committed to universal human rights and fundamental freedoms”. Ladies and gentlemen, there is probably no big cock! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] “Better” – under quotation marks – cannot make the bock a gardener. That is exactly what you have done, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. Here again, I do not want to leave FPÖ out of the obligation that these plans have made for months – in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the Committee on Human Rights, here in plenary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Tight: voted against! That's not true!]] I have a specific quote from the spokesperson of the FPÖ, Mr Hübner, of 19. June 2012, Mr. Klubobmann Strache: Why should one not be happy if a country that has a surplus of money decides to put its money here. - Quote. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Neubauer.]] At the last vote, the liberals woke up, noticed that this is not a very good idea, and voted against. Until this vote in plenary, the FPÖ was for this so-called dialogue centre. [[Abg. Neubauer: Question of meaningful reading!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not too late, even if this dialogue centre has been established against vehement resistance of the Greens; one can also get out of these contracts. And I claim that we owe it to the 60 people who were beheaded in Saudi Arabia alone this year. We also owe it to Saudi women, we owe it to Saudi religious and other minorities, we owe it to human rights, to universal human rights. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, make your return, finally start to get out of this shameful contract with Saudi Arabia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4693	The next item is Mrs. Klubsitzer, Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4716	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Colleagues in the House! Dear guests at the gallery! Dear taxpayers! As you may know, I've lived in Toronto for many years. Toronto is considered the most multicultural city in the world. There people from over 100 nations live together peacefully and productively – together and together – and I have felt this to be an incredibly great enrichment. Austria, on the other hand, has unfortunately pursued a completely missing immigration policy. Unfortunately, we drive out our best heads instead of attracting them – and often invite the wrong people into our country. We also have a much too little asylum policy in Austria, it seems to be as if anyone could do what he wants with us. – Think of Serbia’s football game against Albania and see what is happening in Vienna, these incredibly violent outpourings, or you think of Bregenz, these outpourings and mass attacks by radical Islamists – I have never seen anything like this in multicultural Toronto in 12 years. It must not be that people from other cultures bring their military struggles to Austria. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Such people are immediately expelled from the country. They cast a bad light on all the asylum seekers and actually on all the foreigners in our country, who are often the poorest of the poor and deserved our protection, but did not deserve to be thrown into a pot with such violent people. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Our country is small and also has limited resources. We are the number three in the EU when it comes to how many refugees are admitted to Europe, and of course we all want to save the whole world from the command of humanity, but that is not possible. We therefore call for a fixed distribution within Europe by population and by economic force, so that the people concerned can be optimally supported, but at the same time that their own country does not get out of balance. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I warmly welcome every person of every culture in Austria and see it as an opportunity for an incredible enrichment, provided that these people come in peaceful intention and intend to make a positive contribution to society here. The fact that our Constitution and the laws in force here are accepted and respected is nevertheless the basic requirement. We also want the asylum seekers to make a positive contribution to the general good within the framework of their possibilities. In this context, I am completely incomprehensible as to the union's demand that, in times of record unemployment, asylum seekers should now be allowed to work. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The trade union should rather work to ensure that employees are given a right to participate in the profits of the company they work in, but it probably does not want to, because if the employees become co-contractors, the trade union would probably be superfluous. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] We must also pay particular attention to the growing anti-Semitism in Austria. There is already an extremely violent Islamic environment in Austria, and our police have long since been guarding the institutions of the Israeli Cultural Community from some violent Austrians. The country's leading politicians and decision-makers are so busy with being tolerant that they seem to be very often already We have had what we stand for in Austria at all. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Austria is a beautiful country, with many discreet and diligent people living together peacefully, and it should remain so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4819	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e4841	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Klubobmann Strache! Mr Darmann. What you've done here today is by no means new, we're used to it from you, but it's really embarrassing and distressing every time. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, yes!]] It is really embarrassing and distressing how here you put concepts that have nothing to do with each other into a pot when you throw asylum seekers, people who flee, like terrorists, with people who are radical Islamists, who throw everything into a pot and start a discussion about it. [[Abg. Kickl: Nobody's doing that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] It is just as embarrassing and distressing, Mr Darmann, when you talk about the Carinthian population being “raped” when you know that people are fleeing that women are fleeing because they are raped if you simply use such terms here. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] – It’s about you throwing everything into a pot, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Strache: It seems to me that they do not understand!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Unmistakable!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Look, for us it is clear that we must respond with solidarity and humanity to the people who flee from home who are persecuted who flee from war, from persecution, and here seek protection from us. There we must act with solidarity and humanity and not with the fear of being and panic that you have listed here today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Of course, we all here in Austria! Accordingly, of course, it is also welcome that the countries have finally said that they will fulfil their quotas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] This is an essential point for the countries to start – Mr Kickl – No, not yet, I let them talk about it, it does not bring much. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: colleague, don't let yourself by!]] It is important that the countries have said that they will finally fulfil the quotas, and it is equally important – Mrs Innenminister, you are perfectly right – that we conduct this discussion at European level and finally act together with quotas, show solidarity and offer this protection to those seeking protection together. [[Abg. Kickl: They say “we” and mean the people who cannot defend themselves!]] All you have to do is look at the Dublin Convention: It doesn't do anything at all, it's pointless, pointless bureaucracy. We send people to other European countries, and other European countries send people back to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] All of this is a meaningless zero-sum game, so we need this division at European level in order to provide people with the appropriate protection. What is generally exciting in this whole discussion and in this dispute is the constant shift of responsibility, the constant shift of responsibilities. This is in the final effect nothing but a farce, and only political change is being made, just as the FPÖ has done today. One head of state from the West means that it is easy to say that the quota must be fulfilled if you are sitting behind a desk in Vienna. The other head of state, rather from the East, says that the Viennas are not the demise of the nation. The same applies also in connection with the opening of the labour market. The Minister of Social Affairs thinks he does not want to lower the asylum seekers. – But that’s exactly what he does when he directs them, seasonal work is open to them, but normal jobs are not. The front-end problem is that asylum seekers fall out of basic care because they have accepted a job and then no longer come in. This is what I think is very important, and it is good that we now deal with it together. The most incomprehensible thing about the situation is that FPÖ not only has nothing else to do but to startle fears and panic, but that you are simply not aware that this is not only a human responsibility but also a legal responsibility and commitment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] What you do not understand is that there are European and international obligations that we have entered into and that you cannot simply ignore them! You must accept that there are these obligations, and you should start instead of being agitating fears, supporting and informing the people who have these fears together with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] I don't know if you know all the legal obligations! There is something like the Geneva Convention on Refugees, there is the Asylum Directive at European level, and you simply ignore it consistently. What you do not understand is that this is not about political will. Relevant is not whether you like the fact that asylum seekers come to us and whether we take them in or not, but it is about legal obligations. That's what You don't understand! [[Abg. Kickl: And these legal obligations fell on stone tablets from heaven, or where did they come from?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is about you not understanding that international obligations have been entered into, and it is not about whether you think these are good or bad, but that we must comply with them, regardless of whether you do so or not!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5032	The next item is Mrs Lueger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5053	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The theme of today’s current hour “Security instead of Islamization and asylum chaos!” is nothing new, Mr. Strache. What you have delivered here today is a continuation of what you have been doing regularly since 2007. In a speech in 2007, you requested a situation report and wanted to be reported on the state of Islamization in Austria. They wanted a report on how the Sharia is practised. They wanted to question the potential for violence of the Islamists in Austria, the forced marriage and the murder of honor. 2008 went In Antwerp, they set up a European urban alliance against Islamization, within the framework of which: They, in turn, made demands such as a mandatory note regarding religion in the passport and fingerprint files for people with Islamic background. In 2013 the issue was asylum abuse: You yourself said: The asylum industry is a business. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You're right, that's remarkable!]] They said at the time that the asylum industry was a business model of self-proclaimed good people; Immigration is a massive threat to the social state and not to rehabilitation. [[Abg. Strache: This is a good speech once!]] The whole thing found its continuation in your speech yesterday, in which they also spoke of immigration and Islamic world domination. – But with the figures you never keep it exactly and your colleagues too, because if we look at the figures relating to the development of the asylum seekers in Austria again, then we can say: In 2002 we had 40 000 asylum seekers, and the number of 17 503 asylum seekers you quoted today was the number of last year. In view of this, I would like to stress that 17 503 asylum seekers are a little less than 40 000! And if Vienna overwhelms its reception rate, I find that positive because it contributes to a solution. What you're doing is hate, and what we're trying to do is bring about a solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, what I read yesterday in a broadcast by Mrs. Kitzmüller is very exciting: She says that there are jihad kindergartens in Vienna and Austria, and she says literally, I quote: “If even kindergartens become half-terrorist camps, the development is already very advanced.” – Yes, for God’s sake, Heaven’s will! You're talking about children between zero and six years old! It can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: These children are indoctrinated from the beginning, through your support!]] I am convinced that Austria has to deal strongly with the topics of religion, Islamophobia, extremism and radicalization. In addition, we must go to prevention. In this respect, the first steps have already been taken. [[Abg. Kickl: The fundamentalists laugh at you, even if you don't believe it!]] I would like to show this on the example of Vienna: What is Vienna doing? – Vienna has established a deradicalisation shotline. Vienna has set up a network of deradicalisation, within which real people, MA 17, integration, the Office for Youth and Family, the MA 11, the Youth Department, the City School Council and the Children's and Youth Procurements, and form a competence to help the affected parents and the affected children very easily. [[Abg. Kickl: Please also say something to the Abdullah Centre, which was decided by your votes!]] Then Upper Austria has joined and also builds up such a deradicalization shotline. Mrs. Minister, you have already promised in the Committee on the Interior that you may not be in the Ministry of the Interior, but at the Ministry of Family Affairs to set up a deradicalisation shotline as early as mid-December. – I am very glad that the decision has been made that it should be located in the Ministry of Family Affairs and not in the Ministry of Interior. But I still have some concerns and would ask you to really make sure that this hotline is also financially well equipped so that it can do its work well there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5163	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5184	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The war in Syria and Northern Iraq is certainly the greatest humanitarian disaster of the present: This war makes several million people persecuted and refugees. In Austria, we have a rich humanitarian tradition, for which we find a lot of attention abroad. Hundreds of thousands of people have been taken up by Austria in the last decades and thus protected from persecution in their home countries. And precisely because we are on the road, Austria's demand that the currents of war refugees in Europe should be fairly distributed within the Member States is credible and rightly raised. The war in Syria is the main reason for the increase in the number of asylum applications in Austria. The Consequences of the Terror of Islamic Terrorism Islamic state is really causing a dramatic situation in the Middle East. Almost a third of the asylum seekers are refugees from Syria. But the conflict in Ukraine is also reflected in the asylum statistics. – The refugees of war must therefore be provided with adequate accommodation. The federal states have announced their asylum rate until 31. January 2015 to meet 100 percent. – I’m right in that positive way when this unworthy inn search for war refugees finally comes to an end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, granting asylum is a human and international obligation which applies to all of us, regardless of which party we belong to. The communities and countries are well aware of the increased problem, due to the many refugees of war, and also shoulder their responsibility. An example: The diocese of Linz offered Gleink the former Stift Gleink to the social office of the Upper Austrian state government as a quarter for refugees. The empty Stift Gleink is a former children's home, and I think this would be quite suitable for this purpose. For me, it is not understandable why the responsible speaker of the Upper Austrian government rejects this quarter. Or is it unreasonable that in the 38 000-inhabitant city of Steyr to the currently 100 refugees, 100 to 200 refugees will be added? – I think that would be reasonable and would make sense! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, even less understanding I can understand some cynical statements of the FPÖ in connection with war refugees. After all, they have nothing more but their lives, and that is why such statements are really the last! Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you are perfect for fear: High regard! In reality, however, this has not brought a single shelter for a war refugee. It doesn't make any sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We all know that Mr. Strache is perfectly polarized with words, but hetze is the last thing we need here. [[Abg. Kickl: This is your new favorite word!]] And I deliberately say: In addition to this right-wing hetze, so man-ches schwatz von Grün or links in fact does not bring us any further! [[Abg. Street: When addressing the truth, talk about “Hetze! ” You're the biggest hetzer!]] I believe that Minister of the Interior Johanna Mikl- Leitner and the two Federal ministers Kurz and Brandstetter have taken the right course with their expert dialogue against hatred and extremism, and this path must continue consistently in the future. We Austrians rightly demand three points from all those who come to us and want to stay here: The first is learning our language, the second is the willingness to want to work, and the third is to recognize and respect our order of life and values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But you have failed dramatically!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my home community we have had decades of experience with the reception of refugees, asylum seekers and war refugees. In the end, this requires the good will on both sides to deal with each other, and it is precisely this dialogue and this cooperation that we need. On the other hand, how she chooses Mr Strache does not help us in this regard! – It would be better if you, too, finally recognized this and instead of polemizing the refugee problem really would see what it is, namely an action order for all of us. [[Abg. Strache: You should finally stop the abuse! But you're not ready for that!]] Finally, there was a thought on the popular survey in Crimea on 16 June. March: In this context, Mr Hübner and Mr Gudenus of the FPÖ have said: In this public survey, everything has actually been done legally! – One has seen, however, that the constituencies are transparent and the polls are not put in a envelope, but are simply thrown in. – That’s what you call ‘a regular run’? That's last-class! [[Abg. Strache: According to the OSCE, there are transparent constituencies in France too! Don't you know?]] Finally, we need to do together our task of allowing refugees to take up war in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5304	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5332	Obviously, the ÖVP has already succeeded in putting the speaker's seat out of place. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! On the question of the constituency, Mr Colleague: Perhaps that would be the case at the municipal council in Lower Austria on 25 May. - Yes, it's necessary. There, I think, the OSCE would be a little better off looking at the color of the mayors who had already been sentenced for the abuse of office during the election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on the question of this current hour. What have we heard from the speakers of the other parties today? – We already know: There are a lot of uniforms in Austria at the judicial authorities, in the police departments, also in the federal army, where assistance was made at the border for a time. But many uninformed groups have spoken here in this House. Mrs Lueger, on the one hand, I would like to thank you very much for reading FPÖ applications here during the television period! That is what we want in the future. But You have also brought a number from 2002, namely the number of 40 000 asylum seekers, and if you are talking about a number game, I tell you that we have repeatedly asked the Ministry of the Interior about the figures and figures mentioned. Therefore, we know that 75 to 80 percent of these are economic refugees. [[Abg. Darmann: That's it!]] That means: What about these 75 to 80 percent of the 40 000 of the year 2002? – You have already brought them in to us with your humanitarian residence right despite illegal immigration! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you can say: That's the goal of the Greens, they want that. Interestingly, however, the country quotas are not met precisely where the Greens are in the national government. It is also always remarkable that as soon as greens are in national government responsibility, all the principles they always preach are gone. This has only been experienced recently in Vorarlberg. From the topic of education, Mr Walser, everything has already been removed, and the issue of transport is no longer included in the package. – You can see how green politics is made! We have already heard the confession of NEOS, Mr Scherak: They actively want to do something for economic refugees. We've already heard that the NEOS line is. That's your political line. So look for the voters and the interests for Austria! We're looking for them elsewhere. – I come from Lower Austria, and I believe that Mr Scherak is also responsible for Lower Austria. He may have heard of Traiskirchen in geography lessons and knows this place almost with his finger on the map, but otherwise he seems to have no idea what is happening there! People tell us about it every day! Now let's look at who's insecure, scared, hetze, et cetera. I am thinking of some intermediates who have a style called “restringed code” in the technical language. They cannot say many words and say, for example, only “hets. ” That's the only thing they can say again and again. They are not ready for other discussions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there we have the complaints and suggestions of the citizens. [[Abg. Rädler: Hetze!]] –Yes, the Upper Papagei, I think, just called up there! I now call the hygienic conditions at the railway stations that children are photographed in the kindergarten or that young men paint around there: People are scared. However, FPÖ does not contribute to this, but rather to this missing government policy, according to which it has been observed for decades that under the title “Asyl”, not persecuted by war or for political reasons, but economic refugees have taken foot with us. It's nothing else! Create especially It's an excellent exchange of concepts and confusion. – We stand for those who actually need asylum. That's what Otto Pendl said. But we do not just want to look away as you did and as you, dear Otto Pendl, did with your group. We don't want that! Rather, we really want to have opportunities to help people who need protection and help. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, by uncontrolled illegal immigration under the cover coat “Asyl” you have installed and confounded the conditions of the present time. That's what it's all about! Mr Amon, if you say that the ban on IS is under review, that is simply not true. It's just the badges of the IS in review, so whether someone runs around with any button or not. But this is not about a ban on the IS-state like that in the Federal Republic of Germany. There you acted quickly and didn't need a long review or anything else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps you will review something else, but with regard to the ban of the IS state, you will obviously wait for this group to be registered with us in the association register until you become active! [[Abg. Rädler: Hetze!]] – The Upper Papagei has already reported! I am excited to see what you say at a municipal council meeting in such a case, probably nothing at all! Now we come to the next and last point: Stop looking away! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Asylum problems are too serious to be sacrificed to any interests of the economic refugees!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5458	Mr President, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that there is in itself the agreement in the House that animal comparisons do not correspond to the dignity of the house. I just wanted to tell you that. The next item is the speech by Mr Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5485	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, FPÖ has put an hour on the agenda because it is said that asylum figures are rising. – I mean, you have to look at the numbers first. By August of this year it was 12,878. In fact, there will be an increase by the end of the year, but it is relatively small in 2002 when 39 000 refugees in Austria sought asylum. At the time, there was a blue-black government, I would like to remind you of that. It is – and this is the crucial point – something different from what you claim. It is not about economic refugees, but the rise has only other reasons. And if you look a little beyond the edge of the plate, you can also see that in Syria we have a geopolitical crisis of astronomical scale. When we talk about the causes of the flight in Syria, we talk – by name – about murder, rape, expulsion, trafficking in human beings, forced marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, I can still remember a television show in which a crying father said: You took my two daughters. And we all know what happened to these daughters. So if you stand here now and pretend to be all who are coming now, economic refugees, then this is infammation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I say to you: They do not represent the majority, because I am convinced that the majority of Austrians want to help, and that is good! That is why I would like to thank the charitative refugee organisations, which in Syria and in Turkey must also do inhumane things and help accordingly. I would also like to thank the citizens for their donations and, above all, for their contributions. You have to thank yourself for this! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, it is clear that the integration of refugees, especially in small communities, must also succeed. It is quite clear that this is difficult when it comes to small communities. Large cities have easier to do with this, which is also to be taken into account. But if the mayor of Vienna then takes up 600 refugees in a million town and the FPÖ also criticizes this, then I am already convinced that you are not concerned that in small communities the integration of refugees is probably more difficult, but that you are basically concerned with the mood. You do not want refugees, but you want to change political change with this refugee debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what I actually see as a real problem: Sitting here in a warm Parliament upholstered chair, fortunate to live in Austria in a stable country where we can all – at least at present – have the certainty that we are living in security. Let's hope that this remains so that you never have to flee, that I never have to flee, that we all never have to flee. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Except for flying stones at a demonstration!]] This can be done faster than you think, for example, if you look at the Yugoslavia conflict or the conflict in Ukraine. Let us hope that this will always be the case in this country! [[Abg. Kickl: There it is “ideal” that the federal army is being ruined!]] But to fall on the sugar side of life and then pull over those 3 million people who are now fleeing Syria – I say again: Murder, rape, expulsion – I think that is a shame, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Master of Untruth, the Lord Steinhauser!]] No question: Islamic fundamentalism must be rejected. This applies equally – we are consistent critics of right-wing extremism – to right-wing extreme tendencies as to Islamic-fundamentalist tendencies. [[Abg. Strache: How for left-wing extremist tendencies!]] Intolerance, violence, discrimination against women and homosexuals, anti-Semitism – no matter what view of the world or any religion – have no place and find our rejection. [[Abg. Kickl: That you bring out the word “link extremism”...! Can you pronounce the word “left extremism ”?]] But it is also necessary to differentiate. They draw the picture that all Islam is fundamentalist. [[No call for Members of the FPÖ.]] – Yes, there are strong currents in Islam that have taken a path that is to be criticized, but – and this is important – the majority of Muslims reject fundamentalism and all these listed false values, and this differentiation is important for the following reasons – Mr Amon has already mentioned it –: [[Abg. Höbart: Refuse not to “critise”!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The problem is that you go to the other glue!]] The victims of this Islamic fundamentalism are primarily Muslims, namely double: there in local Syria and here in Austria, because, of course, this mistrust that affects them is extremely unpleasant for those concerned. Differentiation is also important because everything else plays in the hands of the Salafists and Fundamentalists. The image of the fundamentalists and Salafists looks like this: No matter what you say, what you do, it always goes against Islam, Islam is bad, and on this prejudice they build up their recruitment. They say you can do whatever you want, Islam is rejected. And that is the feeding ground on which the fundamentalists and Islamists... [[Abg. Kickl: We're to blame again! The problem lies in Europe again! How naive can you be? That's incredible! That's typical of this 68's...!]] You are, if you don't differentiate, with guilt. Yes, you are, if you don't deal with it, with guilt. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion: The FPÖ should therefore be moderate, as this access will not help us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5669	Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5690	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! We have to ask ourselves why we have an asylum-seeking problem. I think that would have been the right question, and I will now explain it to you. It's a little bit back in history. Let us go back to 2007, to the requests of Czech asylum seekers and their recognitions. That's what I wrote out a few numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, 2007: Slovenia – Czech asylum applications have a positive status of 8.9%; Slovakia: recognised to 0.0 percent positively; Czech Republic: up to 2.3 percent positive; Poland: 5.8% positive; and Austria – 71 percent positively recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Scherak now goes from the NEOS and addresses the Geneva refugee convention, we already have to ask ourselves whether Austria decides differently from other countries. It's a Europe! We always call on a united Europe, to the EU, and I wonder why we have such numbers. I can tell you: Because this red and black federal government, whose representatives are behind me on the government bank, has failed, ladies and gentlemen. These are the facts. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[He-Ruf des Abg. Pendl.]] Have you ever wondered how many people in Bulgaria or Romania are applying for asylum? Why apply for all in Austria or in Germany or in comparable countries? – Ladies and gentlemen, this is quite clear: Because they think this is the promised land, milk and honey flow here. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] And with this asylum policy, you are promoting towmaking. If you look at what is going on and how many people are betrayed for their money, because a land is promised to them in which milk and honey flow, and then they are shipped over the Mediterranean and sunk there, you have to say: That is why this federal government, which has no respect for it, bears joint responsibility. They have quietly and nodingly approved this asylum abuse. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Now I would like to come up with a few examples. Of course, we have the problem that now our asylum quarters are full and then we have no place for the real refugees from Syria. And these are really decent people. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right! That's it!]] I have in my home community in my neighborhood an asylum home with a few Syrian families, they are quiet, they are decent, they are coming, I really can't say anything. But then I already put up my ears or shoes when I think about how the quota distribution is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Christ: After what now? The hair!]] In Italy, the population of 1 000 is 0,2 asylum seekers. Now, guess what it looks like in Austria: There are 2.3 asylum seekers in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen, these are numbers you can read. So something's going wrong in this country. When I hear that asylum seekers coming back from the Syria war who have been branded, murdered, disgraced, raped, walked around here freely, I wonder: What is happening here in this state? Is really here? Door and gate open to all who walk the law with feet, ladies and gentlemen? Here you have to say quite clearly: right away in their homeland! There's no excuse and no back! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Rädler: He is one of you!]] I also wonder how these people come to passports or where they have the money. What then annoys me, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: If you've been looking at the headlines in the media lately, you've read about a murder in Linz by a Chechen. And what did he get away with? – With his father’s Audi A6! Now tell me that a harvester deserves so much that he can afford an Audi A6, ladies and gentlemen! Where does this money come from? The next point: Knife engineering at the demo in Bregenz, also a Chechen, who is also suspected that he was fighting a softgun in school and was threatening students. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the same! Shooting in Vienna, four serious injuries, feuds between Chechens, eight people arrested. [[Abg. Straw: Louter persecuted...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question of what is going on here in this state. This government has failed in asylum policy, which can be said quite clearly. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] We from the Stronach team therefore demand a solidarity service for asylum seekers. Mrs Klubobmann mentioned this earlier. The aim is to ensure that the asylum seekers also bring about a return. If we take these people up here and give them food, give them housing and so on, you can expect something. And it's annoyed me, Mr. Scherak, when I see on television an asylum-seeker who is pre-potential and says: The cleaning woman didn't come to us, the house wasn't cleaned! As a member of the National Council, I also clean up my apartment and my cottage myself. This is also to be demanded of those, and they can also be classified in certain employment services, that they help to reforest the forest, make an avalanche protection or maintain ways. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: But in his apartment this is not...!]] There are plenty of activities there. They can join in solidarity, and we also have an open ear for these people. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be the right asylum policy! I do not think we would have as many asylum seekers as we do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5837	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5859	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! What Mr Hagen says is inconceivable. Mr Rädler has already said this in an interlocutory call: They are actually among the liberals. This has now become super clear. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call the NEOS: He was already everywhere!]] The demand for a “solidary service, ” which is really nothing but forced labor, is immense. I should also like to say a word to Mr Pendl: We must really conduct this debate in a matter of fact and also focus on the wording and on individual words and their use. The FPÖ cannot be blamed for not knowingly dealing with words. Klubobmann Strache, in the current issue of the monthly magazine "DATE", defines Islamism as an abuse of a religion by the fact that there is no longer a separation between religion and state, but that there is a division between religion, politics, law and society. In the same interview you will say: We always had a very clear different position, we have anchored the defensive Christianity in our program. - Quote. With the FPÖ the nipster is not in detail, with the FPÖ the Nipster program is. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Korun.]] Sometimes the saying sounds superficially reasonable. [[Abg. Kickl: That you do not like Christianity, we know! It's known!]] They dress up as fighters for education and laity, and two sentences later you arrive at the typical differential world view that the social home party likes to try. “True Christianity” means nothing but: The autochthonic population, as you always call it, must fight against the immigrants from the East. [[Abg. Strache: The defensive noodle sieve!]] And the new wording of the FPÖ, which is also webbed in the title of this event, your event, is the “Islamization”. They carry out the swing from religion to the people who are supposed to undermine our culture, including those who live here. By the way, it is not possible to prove it at all. There are no precise figures as to how many Muslims live in Austria at all. Values from the last census of 2001 are still being used as a basis and are estimated to be high on immigration from majority Islamic countries. It should be around 600 000 Muslims in our country. In turn, only 10 to 20 percent are registered and organized in religious societies and associations. [[Abg. Kickl: You only need to go through the country once with open eyes!]] The others are more equivalent to the baptismal Catholics – perhaps formal Muslims, but not particularly religious. In the core, therefore, we speak of 1 to 2 percent of the population, which you believe, according to the FPÖ, of Austria religiously undermined. To talk about Islamization here is exactly the abuse of religion that FPÖ carries on with its “defensive Christianity ” itself. This is not a critical discussion of religion, but an instrumentalization of religion against a population group. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Personally, of course, I welcome a debate on the role of religion in relation to state and politics. But I am opposed to this debate being transferred to people. And not only the FPÖ is involved. The government is also involved in this. The new Islam Law is now under review, where the “Islamic State” dominates the reporting. A draft law will also be instrumentalized in political communication against Muslims. The problems raised by political Islam are addressed by undemocratic and constitutional provisions in this draft against religious freedom. Islamic religious communities are held several times in the draft to comply with the laws. This can be read as an rude signal effect. The Muslims are suspected of having a particular tendency to break the law. I'd ask you, and I'd really ask you to reconsider. The Minister of the Interior wants to put the individual interpretation of religion among the Kuratel of recognized religious societies. It could not be that anyone who wants to spread his interpretation of the Islamic doctrine of faith. [[call to the FPÖ.]] - Well, of course! That's exactly what they call freedom of religion! The requirement for a binding Koran translation also goes beyond the objective. A text that reflects the content in German language does not reflect the process of Enlightenment for Islam. And yes, that's a problem. The death penalty is still applied in many Islamic states to non-delicts such as homosexuality or atheism. On average, two people are beheaded in Saudi Arabia every week. You may recall the speech of my colleague Christoph Vavrik, who has experienced it himself. The human rights violations do not happen, although these countries are Islamic, although Saudi Arabia is Islamic, but because they are because the laws that lead to these human rights violations result in consistent Islam because in these countries the Sharia is fully valid. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly called Sharia incompatible with the fundamental principles of democracy. The government's enthusiasm for Saudi Arabia is therefore difficult to understand in my eyes. A few houses continue to exist the so-called dialogue centre, which was co-financed by Austria, which was also addressed by Mr Korun. What dialogue is being conducted in this dialogue centre? There is not much to discuss in the event of human rights violations. This dialogue centre should therefore be closed consistently. There is much to criticise for religion, especially when it interferes in legislation, but not in Islam alone, and certainly not in the way the FPÖ operates here by mobilizing itself against Muslims.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e5990	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:34:17]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6012	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:34:30]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6263	Deputies Mag. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the written question put before us before us on the agenda was raised by Mr Mag. Loacker, colleagues and the Federal Minister for Health on ‘Real structural reforms and complete transparency for a single-fit health system’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6284	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 7 and 8 and 10 to 12 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6309	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 95, FPÖ 88, Green 74 as well as STRONACH and NEOS per 39 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:36:30]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Report of the Federal Government on Internal Security in Austria (2013 Security Report) (III-100/276, d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6348	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6377	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to greet the guests from Upper Austria, from Grieskirchen, who took place on the gallery, very warmly here in the High House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the security report, Mrs Federal Minister! The security report is the work that actually shows the failure of the Federal Government and the Minister of the Interior in figures. If you read through this safety report, you'll actually be swimmering in front of your eyes. I draw a few points: property crime, which is mainly in the hands of the groups of perpetrators from the Balkans; the Turkish criminal organizations that have been active in Austria for years, particularly in the field of drug trafficking, arms trafficking, towing, protective extortion, economic crime; Crime groups from Georgia, Moldova and the Russian Federation, especially Chechens, with the vast majority of the Eurasian perpetrator groups now taking over the Chechens – not according to FPÖ, but this is the case here in your report – in the areas of robbery, burglary, car shifts, drug trafficking, tow and so on. You could continue this now endlessly. If you look at the fact that only in the field of house collapse in apartments and houses in 2013 there is an increase of 7.1 per cent – 16 548 ads – and that there is not even 10 per cent for the investigation, then this is the real failure, Mrs. Federal Minister, you are presenting to us today. [[Abg. Strache: You can't discuss reality away! That's incredible!]] You don't even have an approach. They also write in the report, which is the problem with the collapses, and they have no clues. But that would be your job, at last, to bring down points and ideas here, how to finally push down precisely this crime! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Drug crime – for example, an increase of 10 percent in Vienna! This is particularly the case in Vienna with the central African groups of perpetrators, while in the western states the groups of perpetrators from North Africa are. Mrs Bundesminister, these are all things that have long been known. That's been the case for decades. We've been warning for decades. This is also going a little in the direction of the Greens: How many of these perpetrators have come to Austria via the asylum rail? Unfortunately, you do not show this. But I'm telling you quite honestly, that's the best use of asylum: We get people into the country who then have nothing else to do but break in, steal or sell drugs! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, in the last few weeks the problem of addiction has been greatly strengthened in Vienna. There are very large resistances in the population. But you didn't hear anything from the Minister of the Interior. Every day all the newspapers – you can see them: today in “Today”, today in the “Kronen Zeitung” – are full of addiction problems. Only the Minister of the Interior has no opinion on this, she doesn't say anything about it. Break-in, increase crime in some districts of Vienna by up to 90 percent! Mrs. Federal Minister, now you tell us how it can be that it is in the 19th century. Wiener Gemeindekreis, for example, increases 80 percent in the crimes against body and life! How can such a thing happen within a year, 80 percent? There must be reasons for that. There must be cause research. [[Call the SPÖ:Low base!]] – Low starting point? Colleagues Today, Amon has also said about this speaker's seat, Vienna is one of the safest cities in Europe or the safest city in Europe. [[Abg. Kickl: He's Steirer!]] I must say that I do not know why you do not talk to your colleagues in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Talk to the district leaders you still have, for example, to Mr Tiller, who shouts out loud in the media and says he doesn't keep it, he doesn't know how the district can counter it. – This is the Federal Authority’s task! It's the police's job to take care of security here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Vienna has become one of the most uncertain cities, and every year crime explodes to another maximum. And nothing is done, Mrs. Federal Minister! From you always come only lapidar sentences like: Well, now comes more police! Or: We lock the police guards, because then security is increased, then the sense of security for people is better! - After bravo. That didn't work, but it's your only answer. They not only abandon people in Vienna, but also in Austria as a whole and present us with this crime and security report. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] When you browse it, you can see what's gotten up very much, that's all that's red shows an increase of more than 30 percent. That is what you are putting forward, and that is the inability to put into figures and testifies to the involuntary nature of this federal government and, above all, to your place of business.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6473	Mr Amon has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6534	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: Today is a bit of an uncertainty day by the FPÖ, because everything is disastrous, everything is terrible – Vienna, Austria, everything is insecure, everything is terrible. [[Abg. Strache: One is quoted from the security report and uncertain!]] Yes, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, with statistics you can stop sometimes, as you know, representing things as you would like. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: These are your statistics!]] For example, if you say that the increase in drug offences is 10 percent, this shows very clearly how active the police are in this area, because if the police are more intensively involved in issues, then of course you have a higher percentage in the security report. This is the reason, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, and not because the police are not active here! [[Call the FPÖ:Ah so!]] That's wrong. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] You can get all this ridiculous. [[Abg. That's what you're doing!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr Amon, then we need 100 percent increase in drug offences!]] The fact that Vienna is one of the safest cities in the world also results from the subjective sense of the people. [[Abg. Deimek: Tell the citizens!]] In terms of quality of life, Vienna is always in line with Zurich for the first place worldwide, and you simply have to take note of that. That does not mean, of course, that you individually appreciate what happens to crime, quite the contrary. Let's look at the numbers: In 2013, 546 396 crimes were reported in total in Austria, which is a 0.3 percent reduction, and the education rate was 43.1 percent. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: So everything got better!]] I can read a lot of numbers to you in this regard. Overall crime – in order to have a comparison to this year’s, which is much more exciting than being oriented to the past alone – has a decline of 1.74 percent from January to June 2014 compared to January 2013. The development is therefore also positive, namely a decline in crime, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: People remember this above all!]] I remember very well that when the SOKO East was introduced when the SOKO car was introduced, you got all that ridiculous. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That the crime in Vienna has continued to explode!]] However, it is clear that these measures have led to a gradual decline in the offences in this area since 2010. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where? In Vienna everything has risen!]] So correct measures that the Federal Minister and her predecessors have put in place here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Haven't you read the report?]] In contrast to others, I have read the report very carefully, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Obviously you didn't read it!]] And because today you have complained about how the police are affected by cuts: A little bit of it seems to be swinging into the personnel representation elections. But it is objectively not correct. What you're saying here doesn't stop. The Austrian police are modernly equipped. Apart from the personal equipment, there are in stock in the interior ministry – because you have also publicly criticized it – 1 900 flashlights, 5 000 application belts, 3 000 new ballistic protective vests, and up to 2017 another 3 000 will be purchased. They have mobile banknote banks. There is a sufficient number of mouthpieces for alcomats and forerunners. In April 2014, a total of 2,200 pieces of special-purpose suits were delivered. The Austrian police have one of Europe's most modern fleets, 5 300 service vehicles, 51 motor boats. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You said the staff were saved: Even there, your accusations don't stand. From 2009 to 2013, 4 699 new shots took place, with 3 683 natural exits, retirements, opposite. [[Abg. Strache: The natural finish is not even covered!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What are you telling me?]] That's net 1,000 more cops. 1 000 more, Mr Strache, and no less! Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] The Federal Minister has also managed to reach 1,000 additional posts for the police by 2018. Congratulations, Mrs. Federal Minister, on your success! Modern police also need modern structures. You, Mrs. Minister, have presented a real estate concept, which you, Mr. Strache, felt would create more uncertainty by pooling police inspections. But you know that Munich has fewer police inspections than Vienna and a few inhabitants, half of them, by the way, at about the same investigation rate. [[Abg. Strache: But more planning sites than we do!]] It is precisely this combination, which has been negotiated with the employees, that has not led to the reduction of a single planning site, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But to the explosion of crime!]] So it does not bring less security, but more security. This Federal Minister is the right one and focuses on the security of our people and not on uncertainty as you do as FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6802	Mr Hagen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6823	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! The 2013 Security Report can be seen with mixed feelings, on the one hand, we have a downward trend of ads – in 2004 it was still 643 648 cases, and now we have 546 396 cases; the decline can be seen positively, but in Vienna there is an increase of 4.7 percent, Austria's fall of 0.3 percent – but, of course – and now I have to do so – as Mr Amon said earlier correctly, there is a close look at a statistics, because a statistics assumes a lot. [[Abg. Pendl: Listen! Listen!]] [[Abg. Strache: Because it doesn't make sense anyway!]] [[Abg. Hey, listen! Listen! Increase!]] Mr Amon, if it becomes too stupid for people to repay ads, because they say that this has no value at all, because nothing is being cleared up, and therefore don't refund an advertisement, then you can also push down the number of ads. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have to remember that. There is a slight increase in car thefts. It is striking that foreign groups of perpetrators, especially from Poland, operate here. That's where the phrase gets: Make holidays in Poland, your car is already there!, a completely different meaning. But I don't want to make fun of that. We have to ask ourselves, of course, why it is so easy for these perpetrators to take the vehicles from Austria out of the country, and since we have to say, we are already lacking in many areas the border controls and the strengthened special units, the SOKO East and so on, which, due to the budgetary situation, do not have the necessary resources at their disposal. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no overtime that officials can afford, and there is a lack of staff, even if these 1,000 officials are always mentioned here. These additional 1,000 officials have to be seen relatively again, because we have a lot of female officials, but also men who go in Karenz, which are then only partially there, and then the whole thing looks quite different again, and there is really no staff. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to cut a case that happened to me a few days ago, and which really annoyed me. A Czech asylum seeker is shown to have transferred €60 000 to Chechnya by a drug addict group. And now, Mr Bun- desminister – and we have to think about whether the law should not be amended – is coming: The colleagues have been able to prove this to this asylum seekers, but – and now the point is coming – he has then claimed that he would have gotten it from a Turkish whose name he cannot now say – he doesn't have to – and he would have brought the money for a hospital building in Chechnya there. He went there and brought the money. That's interesting, of course. The problem is: It is not for the Chechen asylum seekers to prove where he has the €60 000, but for the police to prove that he has been wronged or financed from the drug trade. This is a major problem, Mr Federal Minister, which is why I would like to ask you to think about it and to improve the legal possibilities for the officials involved so that they can get there better. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently read in a media report about an FSG staff representative who has annoyed that the officials have too few flashlights. That's right, the new flashlights are only issued to the young officials, but not to the older officials – like my age class; I don't need them now because I'm on the inside, but in shooting exercises I notice that you can't search a building with the big bar lamp because it then becomes too heavy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] That's already a problem, there's no equipment. But, ladies and gentlemen, instead of thinking about flashlights, we should think more about whether we create our own executive service law, because the executive officials always depend on the teachers. And when it comes to working through the lunch break, the executive officials are emphasized, but then, if it really is about the interests of the executive, you have forgotten it again. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Bitch.]] I have tabled a request to this effect, and we will discuss it next month in the Constitutional Committee. I made another request, Mrs Federal Minister, about 50plus. You have always said that in recent years officials should receive 50plus a better job. I brought you the request here, in case you haven't seen him yet. This request has something for itself. Please support us, convince your colleagues here in Parliament so that they can agree to this request. I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, please support Please submit this request. And finally, because it's so beautiful: We urgently need our own executive service law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e6938	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, colleagues, and others, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7002	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7023	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Mr Darmann, I have really learned to appreciate you as a matter politician in many sectors in negotiations and discussions, we have always been able to “can” each other well, but in today’s hour you have put yourself here to the speaker’s seat and said that the head of state Emperor Carinthia falls into chaos because of the asylum question. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We are already in the safety report!]] To do this, I have to tell you: If someone threw Carinthia into chaos, they were your friends, but you seem to have forgotten that. Whether it has been called ‘FPÖ’ or ‘BZÖ’, let us put it down today, because it does not bring us on in a matter when another Jankerl is constantly attracted. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Just as asylum is a general government task, the Federal Government, unfortunately the Republic of God now has the task of eliminating the mistakes you have made in a violent effort, and that costs a lot of money, every taxpayer. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We are now in the safety report!]] But let's stick to the safety report, let's look at it – one could take a point out of every single area –: In general, the crimes go back. We have the second highest education rate for ten years. This is the merit of our police officers, and we must thank them and strengthen our back. We must try not only to help in the field of equipment – as the government does; this is already done through two legislative periods – but also to help in the field of equipment, that is not a question at all. I say that every single crime is too much, but we should remember again and again that in the field of security, the best investment in prevention is a good social policy and a good education policy, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a proper labour market policy. This is the foundation, the basis of the entire security area. Since it is always about Vienna – the election campaign will only begin in some time, but we will probably have this discussion until the municipal election campaign, up to the elections in Vienna, we know – I must say: One should be honest and say how the numbers really look. Look at the plans! Take a look at the profiles of the individual crime areas! The most important thing we have always agreed on is that the crimes that are the problem are falling. At the same time, the education rates are high in these areas. We can discuss all the chicken thieves stories – I don't want them – but the essential thing is – and I really thank the entire government for that, because that was not easy in the government negotiations, not just the 1,000 planning posts – that we train and train 1,200 police officers in special areas, as we unfortunately find more and more professionalism also among those who take advantage of this and commit crime. This is a problem, which is why we must equip ourselves accordingly. I know that we all, driven by the reports, have a lot of criticism, but what is done in this area can be seen. And I'm sure we've prepared a new BAT law before anyone else has lighted there because of the IS history. In reality, we are in all areas ahead of all these developments, only if we want to regulate the rule of law and democracy in a clean manner will we need some time to do so. We are working on it, and I am convinced that if we are able to maintain the development of recent years in terms of our security areas, we will have the same success; Success by further pushing back and preventing the crimes and crimes. And we should all make a contribution to this. Mr. Federal Minister, you really don't save anything. It is not funny to be constantly in the headlines with the execution. This has nothing to do with the security report, but we will have to think about where we are going so that, not only with regard to security, but also with regard to overall implementation, we can come to a solution so that we do not have a continuous discussion about the media, what is happening everywhere. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to negotiate good solutions with us constructively in the interests of Austrians and not to discuss them in a continuous manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7082	Mrs. Mikl- Leitner, Federal Minister, spoke next time. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7104	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! If the issue of security is at the heart of today's Parliament's session, we can truly be proud of the work of our police, be proud that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world and that especially we are at the top of the police in many areas in international comparison and are also a model in many areas. Whether in the area of crime control, asylum, the fight against terrorism, we are a model in many areas. The fact that we are on the go shows not only the comparison of the past few years, but also the safety report for the year 2013, which gives us a good witness as a whole, if one can certainly take out some number or other and practice criticism there and there. But if in recent years we have succeeded in halving car thefts, and now there may be an increase, it is nevertheless also a success because such comparisons must always be seen in the lung run and the long-term comparison must be made. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can only make this long-term comparison on the basis of a number, namely, crime in general, the offences. In 2013, there were approximately 540 000 offences, 540 000 ads, while in 2004 there were 640 000 ads, i.e. a reduction of 100,000 crimes compared to 10 years. A success story where the police have really done great things, where I would like to thank our police officers today for their excellent work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But not only this figure shows that we are on the go well, but above all also the decline in 2013. Here we can only record 1 631 ads less and one plus in the field of the education rate in 2013. This awareness ratio was more than 43 percent in 2013. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] These statistics have always been successful in the individual fields of crime, but in addition to repression, we are of course also very important to us in the entire area of prevention, in which we are permanently investing. Here, too, a positive balance sheet: In 2013, alone, more than 385 000 people were able to be informed by means of our crime prevention measures. This is a plus of more than 74,900 consultations that have been made, either in our consulting centres or directly on site. The SOKO East. – The 2013 Security Report also shows the benefits of the SOKO East. In this security report, you will find that 442,000 arrests were filed alone in 2013 and that there were 129 criminals, 504 administrative police arrests and 248 arrests. That is, in the truest sense of the word: a success story of the SOKO East, and that is why we will continue the SOKO East. A few weeks ago, we started our long-term action, namely to carry out surprising priority actions in our border areas, so that we can continue to challenge both criminals and tractors and show that we have zero tolerance here. Of course, we know that all the different forms of crime are constantly changing and new forms of crime are added. New forms of crime, which I am thinking of, above all, the whole area of cybercrime, and we are also focusing not only on repression in this area, but above all on prevention. Here, too, a success number, only if I make the first half of 2014 comparison for the first half of 2013: The ads have fallen by 14.8 percent over this period, and even here the education rate has been increased, but there is an increase in the education rate, which is now more than 45 percent, in the amount of 4.7 percent. That means, even in this new area, the success is shown, our actions ultimately also show effect. We have also devoted our own chapter to cybercrime and cybersecurity in the Government Convention, where I also offer a warm thanks to the coalition partner for this focus. We have jointly agreed that during this period of government we will also install a cybersecurity centre in the interior. A project with 31. ==References====External links== What do we want with that? – We want to be able to outline meaningful situations in the future, in particular, we want to define information exchange processes and escalation processes. Of course, it takes all stakeholders, the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the defence and other resorts, the economy and the industry that we have to take in to record these processes in order to be successful in the worst case as well. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, an issue that has already been discussed today is the whole field of asylum and foreign law. Yeah, here we are facing very big challenges. If we had an increase in asylum applications of 0.5 percent in 2013, we already experienced an increase of 27.5 percent by the end of September 2014. Why and why this is so, we have already analysed today: numerous crisis spots where thousands, even millions of people, have to flee from terror and violence. As I also ask the FPÖ, above all, to note that it is very important for the coalition to distinguish very clearly between legal migration and illegal migration, and that we refuse that you are constantly trying to criminalise asylum seekers on the part of FPÖ. Let us reject that. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support.]] In the field of state protection, too, as Otto Pendlange has said, we face very big challenges – not only because we know that the 2013 figures are alarming, particularly in the field of right-wing extremism: Here, too, there are increases of 10.6 percent, but thanks also to God, we are increasing our education rate, which is now more than 58 percent. The fight against terrorism is also taking place in this area, as are other challenges, such as the fight against cybercrime, the protection of critical infrastructure, in order to name only a few, which will require us to re-establish state protection, to re-examine and reform it. Especially when we are talking about ‘ new state protection’, it is about: How can we continue to protect the Republic, how can we guarantee Austrian security, how can we continue to protect it? What does it need to do? How does the state protection need to be established? And there needs to be a very broad and comprehensive discussion, especially where transparency is needed. We started the discussion before the summer, where we invited all the parliamentary parties to participate in this discussion process. However, we are concerned not only with participating in the parliamentary parties, but also with civil society, the NGOs, in order to reach a common viable solution by the summer of next year. I am firmly convinced that if we continue to work in this quality and with the pace, we will also succeed, and I am not prepared to say a very warm thank you for starting this discussion, this discussion process. Today, however, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Justice for the very good cooperation between the Justice Department and the Interior, and once again to thank all the staff both from the Justice and the Police for their work, for their central contribution to security.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7219	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7245	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech on the 2013 Security Report, I would like to say that it is both the right place and the right time to say thank you to the thousands and thousands of active firemen working across Austria tonight for their commitment to the security of our citizens and to eliminate storm damage. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Even if the speaking time is short, I must respond to two or three speech reports that were made before me – at the beginning to those of the Federal Minister, who, apparently not listening to us in the asylum debate during the current hour, accused us of not distinguishing the liberals between asylum seekers, economic refugees and asylum criminals entitled under the Geneva Convention. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is so – and one should go into one’s own, including in this Federal Government, Mrs. Federal Minister – that it is this federal government that makes no difference between the asylum seekers who are actually on the run and want to save their bodies and lives, the economic refugees and those who misuse asylum. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This federal government does not follow asylum abuse, and that is the point where we shall say the following: This should have changed long ago in the sense of the people and in the sense of the future of our country, since it cannot be true that precisely those who want to misuse our asylum system, our social state, will be granted protection here to those who actually need this protection temporarily. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: You don't believe that!]] This problem leads me to Mr Otto Pendl's speech. You criticise that I would have accused the head of state of Carinthia as the president of the national conference, he would not recognize the problems associated with the asylum chaos in Austria. I say: The figures from Italy alone say that 160,000 more refugees from Africa from two weeks ago until the end of the year, I emphasize: from Africa – in parentheses: according to current statistics mainly economic refugees – in Italy will be stranded if they make it across the Mediterranean, and then Italy, as we know, will be transferred to the rest of Europe and will be given to them practically the persil for Europe. – Yes, what is the other thing than the refusal of reality, even the national headquarters conference, when it is said: That's what we're going to do!Unknown term type: "%s".? The federal state, where they cross the border with Austria, is to take up these refugees first! Yes, if only a fraction of these 150,000 refugees come across the south to Austria, what are these federal states going to do with the majority of economic refugees, who normally have not lost anything here under the Dublin II agreement, in general, the refugees who come from Italy have lost nothing here, because they are – I have already done so today – to keep under international agreements in Italy and to treat them there with appropriate asylum procedures. That's why we are! There are the corresponding rights of the Republic of Austria – in brackets: the citizens of the Republic of Austria – and their respect we call for the freedom of the people by belonging to these agreements with life, and so we do not bring every problem to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7326	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Darmann is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7437	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7487	Ladies and gentlemen! Entering once a single sentence on what the Freedom Party has been doing here all the time since early today. I personally and, I believe, many in this Republic with me have been saddened by the fact that 10,000 economic refugees in Austria are doing less damage than the Freedom Party of Carinthia. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS representatives.]] And we should always keep an eye on this dimension. [[Abg. Rädler: He's right!]] Of course, we also need to protect against asylum abuse because it is simply about taxpayers' money and about dealing with asylum law, which can damage asylum law itself. [[Abg. That's what I'm talking about.]] Of course! But we also need to protect people from ruling liberals. [[Abg. Beautiful: Yes natural! In front of the mushroom, too!]] And at least that's about much, much more financially. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The main damage in this Republic has not been caused by Turks, Chechens, North Africans, but by crusaders, local free politicians. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Eher von Peter Pilz!]] We owe them Hypo Alpe-Adria, Eurofighter, Telekom, and, and, and. Billions go to their account! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am surprised that they are talking about economic refugees, where the liberals themselves are economically responsible refugees today. And we must also make these economic refugees the subject of security policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: A embarrassing appearance from my colleague Pilz!]] Mrs. Federal Minister – and also Mr. Federal Minister – when we look at the safety report, I personally notice one thing: It has almost changed nothing in the last safety report. This can be seen positively and said that it has not become worse. But you can also see this critically and say: Yes, what has improved this year? Where has the Enlightenment Rate increased? Where has the fight against crime become more efficient? Where is there a higher degree of security? – Unfortunately, nothing can be found in this safety report. If this is a success balance of the Federal Government, from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of the Interior, and that is what it is supposed to be, then this success report states: It's nothing better, but luckily, too, nothing worse. So, and now I come to the big and according to the Freedom Party to the all-dominant problem of asylum seekers and aslywers. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then we can also talk about crime!]] This is about the ability to read two-digit numbers. If you look at the statistics in the security report, you will have a share of 11.56 percent for foreign crime in Romanians; 11.33 percent for the Serbs; 10.83 percent for the Germans and 3.37% for the entire perpetrators from the Russian Federation – not only Chechens but also Russians of other nationalities. And according to the Freedom Party, these 3.37% are the largest perpetrator group. Tell me, can't you even count?- Oh, my God! Is 3 percent the largest number in security statistics? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You should talk about Promille at the speech!]] You say you can't count up to ten? This should be one of the major problems facing the Freedom Party in the security policy. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I do not want to go further on the Chechen question for certain reasons, which also have to do with the FPÖ. And now I'm telling you what is personally upsetting me in security policy. I am excited how officials, especially the police, are abandoned every day. In Vienna, in particular, I am upset with the unacceptable service times. I am moved to see how careless, sloppy and responsible structures in the fight against crime have been destroyed and never restored in more than ten years with a so-called criminal police reform. I am excited that there are hardly any officials who are able to effectively combat trafficking in human beings, in particular trade with women, in this Republic. Where is the human trafficking focus? These are the real problems, ladies and gentlemen, not only from the Freedom Party, for which we need more and more qualified police. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am moved by a Minister of Justice who wants to remove the illegal gambling from the Criminal Code after it has already returned, and then, when administrative criminal law and criminal law collide, only the administrative criminal law in gambling – and this is an exception – is applied. Why, Minister of Justice, present Is it also next to this House that the executive will make the fight against illegal gambling impossible in the future? Don't you know that the biggest group of perpetrators in Vienna is not the addicts, but the addicts? Do you not know that parties in this House – and this is not just a party – have been politically funded by a slot machine group such as Novomatic? [[Abg. - What party?]] Why is the Ministry of Justice playing with that? These are the questions that upset me. [[Call the FPÖ: Which party is that?]] – Look Take a look at the SPÖ, take a look at the ÖVP and look at the Freedom Party, which has completely changed its course in terms of Novomatic and Gambling! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Well, after, after!]] Do you know what upsets me? – A so-called staff representation called AUF, where leading officials are urgently suspicious of sexual assaults on colleagues. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You're not upset when your family members are harassing officials in the execution of justice?- Oh, my God! Some of them are still rewarded with mandates and functions for such behavior?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But now it is enough slowly!]] That upsets me, and it didn't lose anything in public security! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Free people's representatives, who have great influence today, are a sign to me for all serious concern. [[Abg. Stefan: This is so unscrupulous!]] I do not want to see the security executive swimming up the political floor. I don't want to. [[Abg. Stefan: Incredible unbelievable!]] These are the real problems of security executives, and you cannot tell each other by incitement of national and foreign countries that we all have very different problems together in security policy. Yes, the Austrian police need much more support, much more resources, they need laws, partly better laws, which they also implement, but one doesn't need them with certainty: Snipers, snipers in their own ranks, snipers in this Parliament, incite people against each other, misuse the important problems of security in order to raise people and create capital from them. Austria doesn't need that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Austria does not need a free policy of insecurity, but a security policy, jointly designed with executive and judicial authorities, that is responsible! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7757	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. [[Abg. Neubauer: (in the direction of Abg. Pilz) Finally, present proof! You haven't done that for ten years!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schenk, too, has deserved to speak before a hearing auditorium. I would ask you to give her the opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You could have intervened, Mr President.]] Please, Mrs. Donk.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7815	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One can evaluate the safety report by reading it this way, and my previous speakers have done so. For me, in connection with this, I can already speak of a missing security policy of the Minister, that government. If the number of ads falls by 0.3 percent, it does not mean that there are fewer crimes. That means that many have already resigned, resigned and no longer make ads, and that is because the police inspections have been closed up. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Right!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Right!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mrs. Minister, I now have to confront you with some questions that burn me under the nails, because pretty slowly I don't believe you're on the side of the police when you think that police inspections have been closed when you think that no money is available for the equipment. We have already heard it in today's debate, there is no money for the Alkomat tubes, there is no money for the flashlights – Mr Colleague, you can then speak, Mrs Minister, you can also speak again, but now I can finish my remarks. [[Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner: 1.6 million! That's incredible!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The DOK was also dissolved, the Disciplinary Board in the Federal Chancellery. I would be interested to see why this was done, because the Disciplinary Board has acted with an eye and fingertips. She was probably too official-friendly, because since 1. January 2014 took over the agendas of the Federal Administrative Court's Disciplinary Board. My question, therefore, is: Was she too official-friendly? Why was the DOK dissolved? I would also like to address the authority's arbitrariness with regard to the issue of arms passports. There is an up-to-date petition that we will also deal with in the next Committee on the Interior, because it is also about executive officials not even having the right to a passport of arms. If an executive is reliable enough to carry a weapon in the service, then he should be allowed to do so. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Today, we have discussed and discussed asylum issues in the current hour, and I would also like to say a few words about the cost of basic care this year to the federal and state governments and about €30 to 40 million more than last year. So on the one hand, a lot of money is invested in this area, on the other hand, the money is missing in the executive. At European level, the issue of quota allocation, as far as the asylum seekers are concerned, has not yet been clarified, Mrs Minister, that is what you have been talking about today. But can you perhaps tell us when a step will be taken to ensure that quotas are allocated to all 28 EU countries and not to the smaller countries and, in particular, to Austria? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The newspaper reports of the last days about – 100 house breaks per week! .punish this report, too. In that, what really is going on is what is happening, and in the report, beautiful figures are shown about fewer ads, as I have already done. I would also like to speak to the Causa Bakary J., because in this case two police officers who were sentenced have filed a resumption request and have made very interesting statements, namely: that the police were then required for their statement that they should admit to have done something they did not do after the present state. If you are talking about a serious need in this case, Mrs Minister, then you also need to clarify this in your place of business, then you have to get a position here. There can be no need for police officers to make a statement that destroys their existence and then leaves them in the rain and does not stand behind them. In this context, Mrs. Minister, there is a great need for information, and I would really ask you to show that you are behind the police and not just talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7947	Next word: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e7968	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! The safety report can also be read a little between the lines, because the reading is also interesting what is not in it. Among other things, there is a lack of the great successes of data storage – I didn't really want to talk about it anymore, but you motivated me – and the reason for this is simple: There are no such successes! We remember: The storage of data has been introduced to resolve or even prevent serious crimes such as terrorism. Up to now, however, there are no measurable successes for such offences due to the storage of data, which – thank you – should also be rare in Austria. Nevertheless, the authorities and the Ministry of the Interior have come to love this powerful tool, and that is why the Federal Minister of the Interior has recently declared in the Committee on the Interior that a successor is being sought, and the Minister is also interested in a new edition of this instrument. But that can't work, and that won't work. The ECJ has clearly found that data storage is a serious intervention in fundamental rights, which is in no relation to the actual benefit. The ECJ – or then the VfGH – did not set a repair period or allow any possibility of continuing storage of data. On the contrary: The VfGH has stopped the irrevocable deletion of the data, and of course we would also be interested in how far this irrevocable, this irrevocable deletion has progressed. The follow-up of the storage of data is unthinkable because the storage of data is in itself irreparatable. For a very simple reason: It is not possible, without reason, to limit the number of persons to the gravity of the crime. You just can't know in advance, Whoever commits what crimes, you have to store all the data in any case. As soon as there is an occasion, it is no longer stored on stock, it is just caused by other security police instruments. Apart from that, authorities can use data records of about three months anyway. However, there is also an area between data storage and data already available, which could facilitate the work of the authorities, and this is the so-called quick-freeze procedure that would allow more comprehensive and faster access to data. Of course, this method is also suitable to be abused, especially when used excessively. We believe that there must also be new ways of investigating. On these points, I must also give you and the Minister of the Interior the right to go looking to modernise the instrument. All of this, however, has to be done in accordance with fundamental rights. We have already submitted an appropriate request for evaluation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8020	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8041	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! What Mr Mister Pilz has said here, who does not want to follow the security debate until the end, was from just too grotesque arrogance – but that we also hold out – but it was – and that is the unfortunate – of a non-overbitable cynicism. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] For example, I would have liked to ask him if he knew – I am expressly referring to the “standard” of June 2012 – that the prisons are full of bruising. We all know that. But why?! – Because – and you know this, Mr Pendl, particularly well – 48 percent of the inmates in the prisons are not native to Austria. Who can't count on here?- Oh, my God! Who can't read here?- Oh, my God! And above all: Who doesn't want to look at reality or even hide it?- Oh, my God! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Mrs. Minister, you have said – by exhorting us not to hate; we have known this for a long time – that you are very different between wanted immigration and migration and illegal migration. - It would be nice. You're not doing it! How could it be otherwise that from your ranks Call for a policy that contradicts this very principle, because asylum seekers who are recognised as asylum seekers are – we all agree that this should be the same – equal to the citizen and have access to the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] The call for it – it is the reputation of the economy; a very short-sighted economy must be said in this context – is that asylum seekers whose asylum rights are not yet established should have access to the labour market, is a massive attack on those of us who can hardly hold themselves at their workplace. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, if you really make this so important distinction, namely protection from persecution and asylum or immigration on the other hand, why do you deal exclusively with the distribution of refugees and not with the fact that it is finally decided quickly whether there are grounds for asylum – then it is all right, then someone stays – or not? – Then there must be consistent action, and then there must be deportations. That would be your job! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pendl, you have remembered Hungary, and I remember an event in Traiskirchen – that is years ago – where an old lady who had already experienced 1956 as an adult person said that one has always helped Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, even now, in the early 1990s, the crisis in the Balkans, but what is going to come is something quite different. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right!]] And that's exactly the point: What is now being sold as an asylum problem is quite different, and that is exactly what it is all about. Finally, the terms must be corrected, because if the terms are not correct, then the words do not vote, and the words do not agree, then the works do not come into being. This - I protect myself with high authority - said Confucius, who was, after all, a practical politician for a long time of his life. What do the numbers look like? – Only a quarter of the asylum seekers this year are Syrians. The number of asylum seekers from Afghanistan has almost doubled, but there NATO is on withdrawal because: Mission done. In Kosovo, KFOR – these are Austrians in service – and we still have 532 refugees from there. India is undisputed – one would insult the Indians, one would see it differently – the largest democracy in the world and a diverse state with many national escape-talternatives, even if there is a problem somewhere between Muslims and Hindus – there are purely Muslim states, there are purely Hindu states in India – yet there are from India 299 asylum seekers. Serbia: 2009 Request for EU membership, we also recognised this in 2012. Serbia is a candidate country, and yet 230 asylum seekers from Serbia come to us. Something's wrong. Rather, the head of Traiskirchen Schabhüttl is right when he says that the international crises are not so much the trigger of escape movements, but rather that the international tractor syndicates determine who is coming. No one can make the wide way without a tow. Sometimes it is also violent to ensure that these people sell house and livestock and go on the journey, because the illegal travel agencies want utilization. One of the advertising arguments was the €40 pocket money that refugees in Traiskirchen received for articles of daily need. Many sent the money home. 40 € monthly in the countries of origin are a lot of money and reason for the neighboring families to also send their sons away. There's a little bit of a mystery and the mystery is, why three-quarters of all asylum seekers are men and not how to think refugees are mainly women and children. It is not true that men can leave women and children at home if they really flee. I am not talking about those who use the system, I am talking about those who make this system possible. And that's you! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! Another quote: They set up a special commission against the tow industry two years ago, and at that time the outstanding official Gerald Tatzgern, who was at the top of the list, could also speak open words. He said that organized towing was one of the most profitable types of crime. A tow from Greece to Austria, for example, costs € 3 000 to € 4000, from Syria, Pakistan and Afghanistan € 10,000 to € 15 000. Towrs would thereby generate a high profit. And so we are again – the circle closes – to the security report. These sums do not usually apply to those towed, for if they had this money, then they would stay at home and would be well-fated medium-sized people there. The basis for a small farm is €15 000 in Pakistan. So they undertake to finish the money here and stay here in the country – and this is really a big problem for our internal security! – on the volume of organised crime. What terrible things there are! – be it illegal prostitution, be it that someone can also be used for a crime or at least for black work in construction. Whoever doesn't look into him, who conceals or who wants to rescue and distract himself with jokes, is a little girl in this highly criminal, inhuman structure. Do you want to be that or don't you want to think about it?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8142	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that you have moved very hard at the border of a call for order. In my view, moving members of the government near these organisations is almost too far. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8166	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to extend my warmest welcome to the elderly village group from Arnreit in the Mühlviertel, which is visiting Parliament today. – Welcome! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Security is a particularly important need for the population. Security is a basic need, and we must do everything and, above all, security policy must do everything we can to give people this sense of security. What the FPÖ is performing today, most recently represented by the colleague Rosenkranz, has only one goal: To twist facts, to ignore, to make negative hets and moods, and thus to affect people's sense of security. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Are you talking to your mayors?]] It could have been thought that the FPÖ is a party that is seriously on the verge of security policy. But the only security there is with you from the FPÖ is the security that you are talking about everything in this country. That's your security! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: What do your mayors say in the Mühlviertel?]] The safety report and the statistics clearly show that Austria is a very safe country. We are one of the safest countries in the world, in which the subjective sense of security is very, very high – you can also see that when you ask the population. The overall crime in Austria continues to be stable in its decline. That's nice. This is not about, however, but is achieved by the fact that the police are permanently being set up and equipped to the best possible extent and that it is always seen that the structures are designed accordingly. Here, too, a reference to what the liberals do in connection with the election of personnel representatives – a little flanked by the Stronach team – show here by claiming that too few flashlights are available or – the most stupid! – even too few mouthpieces in the alkomat test devices. It's just stupid and can be rebutted. My colleague Today, Amon has clearly shown what is being invested in the police and what the police's equipment is. And the police are very well equipped. The aim is – and that must be it – to reduce crime even further, and above all, it is always necessary to respond to regional circumstances accordingly and, of course, – and this makes security policy – to new developments, such as radicalisation, jihadism or terrorism. But here the Minister of the Interior and the Federal Government take very concrete and determined steps. I can point to a development – it has already been mentioned – that concerns the crime rate on the Internet. In principle, this is at a very high level, but it is noted from the figures shown in the safety report that there is a consistent counter-control and effective action is being implemented and that these measures are already taking place. I would like to mention, for example, the cyber security strategy that is being implemented, and also the establishment of the Cyber Crime Competence Center. These measures are effective and thus protect the population from crime on the Internet. In total, the safety report clearly shows that Austria is well on the road, a safe country. It also points out, of course, where there is still a need for consistent work to be done. This is also the goal of the Federal Government. There is no reason, however, for the people to be insecure here, as the liberals do. Don't do that! It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8237	Mr Brandstetter has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8258	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Before I come to the real issue, the judicial part of the security report, I have to deal very briefly with a statement by Mr Pilz, who had nothing to do with the judicial part of the security report and thus the actual subject, but I think it serves to clarify if I make two things clear here. What Mr Pilz believes to be a decriminalization of illegal gambling is certainly impossible to see. He refers to an expert proposal from the expert group StGB 2015. It is therefore not a recommendation or a proposal – or a proposal – of the Ministry of Justice, by any means. It is an expert group that has produced many proposals here, including the removal of the criminal offence of forbidden gambling in favour of a stronger and more effective fight against this illegal gambling in administrative criminal law. There is the proposal; we have also submitted it accordingly in the Committee on Justice, along with all the other proposals, and we will discuss it in peace there. As I said, formally it is wrong that this would be a proposal from the ministry. It's just not right. It's easy to check. You only need to read the minutes of the last judicial committee, then you can find them. In terms of content, it is also wrong, because in truth, it is about the question – and it is legitimate –: Where, in what area, which sanctions mechanism can be used to combat certain offences more effectively: Administrative criminal law or judicial criminal law? We also have this in other areas, and the experts in this area know what I am talking about. You've got to think about it! Not least in view of the fact that we have greatly expanded the administrative sanctions rail and made absolute EMRK-fit by the courts there, it is certainly appropriate to consider: Where is it better to combat certain undesirable behaviours more effectively? Does it really always need judicial criminal law, or is it not there or there the administrative criminal law more effective? – This question is open, it is not yet decided, but it is a matter of content. As has been said, we will discuss this in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. This has nothing to do with the security report. But one thing I would like, Mr Pilz – I can only wish for something here as a member of the government, but I may wish for something –: I would just like you, if that is possible, to talk to your judge before you talk to him on justice issues. He is one of the most active and keen in the Committee on Justice, and I believe that if you were to consult him before, that would be a contribution to increasing the quality of the debate in the National Council and thus in all our interest. But now on the real topic. [[Abg. Pilz: May I wish for something?]] . Mr President, this has to be decided if you wish. I can only wish for something here. [[Abg. Riddler: Pilz! As in school: sit!]] [[President Head: (in the direction of Abg. Pilz) You are allowed to speak afterwards!]] [[Abg. Pilz: I wish for a real fight against illegal gambling!]] You'll see: That will not be missing! The question is: How can you make it most effective?, and not decriminalization. They suspect decriminalization where none is planned. But, as I said, there is not even a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. So I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8347	Mr Pilz, you know that we in this House do not know the instrument of the two-earth debate, but, of course, you can speak again at any time. [[Call the Greens:Unknown term type: "%s".?]] But, of course, an intermediate call of this kind is quite opportune, of course. Mr. Federal Minister, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8370	I am at your disposal at any time for a reconnaissance dialogue in the matter, but if you allow, I would now like to come to the real issue. The judicial part of the security report is devoted in detail to the work of criminal justice and offers not only an overview of the proceedings and convictions in the last year, but also informs about the execution of criminal proceedings – a very important area, as we have already heard today – of the legislative activity in the field of criminal law, the reform of the criminal process, the assistance for crime victims – we already do very, very much here, are international leaders, one must say – and also about international cooperation in criminal matters. Well, ladies and gentlemen, statistics and comparisons to previous years are, of course, not a self-evident for us, even if we can discuss them in detail. That is not why it is possible, but these statistics are essential to us for scientific impact research, and they give rise to objectively sound reform efforts. However, they also show, as a whole, that we can be quite satisfied with the status of criminal justice. You can't just ignore a few numbers: In 2013 we had a total of 250 000 procedures completed. The attitudes weigh – that's quite normal – and the discords and convictions are about the balance. There were about 52,000 convictions. Already here I am pleased – and therefore I mention it immediately ahead –: the decline in the convictions of young people, at least 12.3 percent. That's nice. In essence – in order to make it really short now – the judicial part of the security report, as has already been said, is content in the area of normal, the foreseeable. It is not spectacular, but there are two points I would like to draw attention to. The one thing that stands out is positive, and the other is negative – you have to say it quite openly. I'm starting with the positive situation that is striking. This is the fact that in 2013 a total of €9.3 million was taken up by property law and recovery, which means an increase of 15.6 percent compared to the previous year. This shows that we are on the right track in this area, namely in the area of the levying of assets acquired by delicate behaviour. There are also important practical measures behind that: the special training of individual prosecutors, who can also specifically devote themselves to this issue, as well as a guide developed by us. We have done a lot here to enable this encouraging development. And that's something. The negative point that is apparent – that is clear, it has already been mentioned –: The really big problems we have in the execution of punishment are huge. You know our permanent efforts in this area. It's a very large construction site. But maybe for the explanation: Since the beginning of the 1980s, the number of persons present in Austrian judicial institutions varies between 5 946 in 1989 and 8 957 in 2007. That's a huge difference. While the number of prisoners had fallen significantly between 1982 and 1989 and had decreased by about one third, it initially increased slightly at the beginning of the 1990s to remain relatively stable at a low level in the following years until 2001. However, from 2001 onwards, a newer, steeper increase began, leading to a significant increase in exposure and a relocatement of the judicial institutions until 2007. And with 8 957 prisoners, this overburdened 2007 led to the 2007 prison relief package, and after that the number of prisoners temporarily dropped by 8 percent to 8 214 people, but then increased again, and now, according to the security report, we stand at 8 950 people. In other words, we have already reached the highest level in 2007. At that time, this led to appropriate measures – to the debt relief package. We'll need something like that again. We will have to consider all measures, including at the legal level, in order to achieve a certain relief from judicial institutions. One thing has been achieved with the 2007 arrest relief package: It's with effectiveness 1. In September 2010, the electronically monitored house arrest was introduced as a new form of enforcement. In principle, this has proved to be a good thing, and I see here that if this type of execution is properly handled, there is also a potential for development, especially in order to avoid the arrest. Now, in the field of penance, there is also a bit of a gratifying to report: The number of young people in prison has fallen again, and this development is probably due to efforts to avoid detention by other alternative means of supervision and surveillance. And that's, I think, something where we can say: That's where we're on the right track. Mr Pendl has already mentioned this: A special problem is the implementation of measures. Here too, please, you have to remember the numbers. In the execution of measures for the incompetent, mentally outlawed perpetrators, we had with 1. ==References====External links== For comparison only: In 2000 it was only 218; this is an increase of 85 percent. We have also seen an enormous increase in the implementation of measures for those who are not ineligible but mentally impaired. We now have a lot more compared to the year 2000 when we had 207, namely 434. That is a really big problem, ladies and gentlemen. But it is an interdisciplinary problem, and therefore it also needs interdisciplinary approaches. Why interdisciplinary? – This is not only a problem of justice, it is also a problem of medicine. I am therefore also pleased that the Ministry of Health is also represented in the expert group, which we used here months ago, so that alternative forms of maintenance or solution models can be developed here. It is only interdisciplinary approaches that lead us to go on. In the area of justice, there are just under 11 000 staff in total, and this must not be forgotten. And let me conclude by expressing my conviction that the general majority of the officials in the field of justice are really doing a very good job. It is all the more annoying and sadr that there are always indebted and unacceptable occurrences in individual cases, which ultimately bring the entire system and the really good work of the majority of those in this field into discredit. You can be sure that in these cases we will continue to proceed consistently. Let me, therefore, take a brief look at the following: The judicial part of the security report has no surprises, no big facts where one has to say that this is something very new, no one has expected. That's not it. It contains light and shadows. It contains a lot of positive developments, but it also includes, of course, a description of the weaknesses and problems that we must address. And that's what we do. We'll pack it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8450	Thank you, Minister of State. Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8474	Mr President. My dear Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! If one has been following this security debate since early, then one will become really clear and then it becomes clear that in this area the representatives and lawyers of the criminal foreigners sit here and here in this area the lawyers and representatives of the Austrians. [[towards the Green sage]] [[pointing towards FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I think it's good that you see this here in the high house and that this is what people see in front of the television screens. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: If you get the arguments, then!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as a whole, we have once again seen the refusal of reality here by the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP on the subject of security or internal security. And, Mr Amon or Mr Scherak, but also Mr Hammer, if you come down here and speak well, I would ask you to make these Sunday speeches or this beautiful speech once in Graz, for example in the district of Gries, where you will have to go on 30. August 40 asylum seekers have fought each other with machetes and batons, where, of course, as an Austrian, you no longer have a good feeling when you live and sit there. Or, ladies and gentlemen, especially Amon, Hammer and Scherak: ==References== On September 1, we removed a drug dealer ring in Styria, with 71 drug dealers arrested, 54 Afghans and 16 West African asylum seekers. This also shows: No, it's not all right in Austria, and you can't go to the agenda like that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The report we are discussing here today also clearly shows that not everything is in order and that there are some things in the wrong position. And if we look again at the Styria, in terms of what we know in this report, that in some districts there is an increase in crime and crimes of up to 30 percent, namely in the districts of Germany, Leibnitz, Murau, Liezen and others, yes then we cannot make ourselves here and say that it is all right, Mr Pendl, and the FPÖ, that is the great incitement. It's not like that! The fact is that there is a security deficit – also clearly legible in this report. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of security deficit, ÖVP, Minister for the Interior: There has once been an ÖVP Minister of the Interior, the predecessor of the present, the Interior Minister Fekter, who has recognized that we have a security problem in Styria, and which has therefore concluded a security pact between the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the State of Styria in 2010. Now I already know that the ÖVP has approved of this paper. I tried to find it on the Internet yesterday. There is a local group of the ÖVP, namely the ÖVP Werndorf in Styria, where one thank God still finds this security pact, otherwise he was naturally deleted from all ÖVP-near sides. [[Ui-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] This pact also provides for an increase of the executive in the Styria. I would therefore like to make the following request, ladies and gentlemen, that: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can prove today that this was not only a campaign in 2010 but also that you take it seriously with the security of Styria. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Finally, on the subject of security in the Styria: A hot, brand-new topic is the situation in Spital am Semmering – we have discussed this topic here in this House a few days ago – where you, Mrs. Federal Minister, informed the mayor on Tuesday in a night-and-nebulous action and the first bus arrived on Thursday with asylum seekers. Today, we know that. The police inspection in Spital am Semmering was closed in May this year. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you don't understand the world anymore! And there you have to say quite clearly that there is something wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, he is not here now – there are already difficulties in the area of hospital at Semmering. I spoke to a district police officer this morning: There has already been an attack on one another, on shoplifting, on the harassment of avians, and only a few days ago, on the harassment of a thirteen-year-old student by asylum seekers. These are facts and realities, where we must not look away here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8602	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8675	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8697	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen listeners at the gallery! The fact is, the world is not as good everywhere as it should be. There is war in the Middle East, Ukraine, Africa. There are people who, because of their opinion, are persecuted because of their sexual orientation, because of their sex in their home countries, and Austria has committed itself to giving them protection. - So far, so clear. If the FPÖ now thinks that those who seek protection from us are not real asylum seekers at all and there are too many of them, then, I think, the FPÖ should also have the mumm to come out and say straight and clear: We're leaving! We are leaving the European Convention on Human Rights, and the Convention on Refugees no longer applies to us, which we signed in 1951, because de facto this is what FPÖ wants. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, no, no!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Do you know the term “Economic Refugee ”? Is that in your vocabulary? “Illegal immigration”, do you know that? Does that tell you something?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Dublin II!]] Each of their initiatives will move towards border fences, internalize asylum seekers, spread uncertainty and operate witches. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Do you know the term ‘illegal immigration’?]] If you really believe what Strache and Co are giving of themselves here in the course of this security debate, you would have to believe that Austria is on the verge of ruin, enslaved by people who look different from all over the world. Well, that's the paranoia view of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who wrote this?]] There are also people who believe that the condensation of the planes is always poisoning us. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone's paranoia, but the country must not be ruled by Paranoia! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But not from the SPÖ either!]] “Security instead of Islamization and asylum chaos!” was the theme of FPÖ for the current hour. This is completely pointless, but typical FPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you have something to say about content?]] The next time I will propose as a topic: Justice instead of Ebola. – That would be just as logical. Ladies and gentlemen! Fear is a bad advisor, and Paranoia is an even worse one, but it is the worst if fear and paranoia are deliberately used as a means to insure people in the country. I do not want to appreciate what the FPÖ is doing here – probably a mixture of everything – but I would just like to remind you of the time when it was in the government: That was chaos and uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8852	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8873	Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice is not here now, I wanted to address him to the debate between my colleague Peter Pilz and him. Of course, as regards criminal law, it is always discussed whether criminal law is the appropriate means of sanctions. Clearly, one is on the point of not fighting a crime against the trade order with criminal law, so one must not do that in the game of gambling. What is overlooked is that the conditions for gambling are quite different, that there is a huge criminal energy behind them, and that the follow-up crime of gambling is enormous. If you look at the robberys, you notice that the majority of them are committed out of play, and therefore we must avoid one thing: this reform leads to the illegal gambling of administrative punishments simply being awarded these penalties – and that was it. That would be the result of moving this illegal gambling into administrative criminal law, so of course we believe that criminal law, there are Peter Pilz and I an opinion that is the appropriate answer. [[Congratulations to Members of Parliament on treasure and fungus.]] However, I wanted to talk about another aspect of the security report in greater detail, to the increase in the right-wing crimes shown in this security report. You only need to read the insanity in the newspapers – today, “With the Hakenkreuz disfigures – Nazi murder to beautiful waitress”. [[the speaker keeps the respective page of the newspaper “Austria” up to date]] If you keep browsing: This is a process of anti-Semitic hatred on the website of Federal Minister Kurz. It is also reported that there has been another process of hatred: Someone wanted beggar for Mauthausen. This shows that this statistical increase is also noticeable and visible. For example, let’s look at the group “Object 21 ”! This is a rocker group – “Blood & Honour” – that has mixed itself with organized crime, and that is a new quality in right-wing extremism. They have entered the shops of drug trafficking, attacks in the red light environment and extortion. All this shows that there is extremely much in the negative sense in connection withright-wing crimes in motion, and that also shows quite clearly the figures. The first increase occurred from 2006 to 2007. Then there was a little stagnation, then the next jump in 2010. Now there is again a massive leap in all categories: plus 11 percent in the right-wing, racist and anti-Semitically motivated acts, plus 13.5 percent in the Prohibition Act, plus 83 percent in the act of hatred, plus 19 percent in the field of right-wing extremism. There is the largest increase at the Internet news centre, where right-wing websites can be reported on the Internet. There was an increase of 102 percent. I believe that this already shows that there is a need for a reaction and that we, Mrs Bundesminister, actually need a detailed legal extremism report, Because we only have the fever curve with these numbers, but what we don't know is why this is so. There's a presumption. I think the problem has been underestimated for years. Now, I have the impression that the Director-General for Public Security, Mr Kogler, is there someone who takes this seriously. It could be that the sensitivity has increased. It could be that right-wing actions are now better recognized. But we have to look at exactly why the numbers have increased. We would have to analyse more precisely what the recruitment and activity fields of the right-wing extreme scene are – there is the right-wing rock, the football court scene, Facebook; you only need to look at various Facebook pages and forums of the FPÖ politicians as they go there. And the third point is that we need to develop a prevention strategy. For all of this, we need a legal extremism report, and I actually do not see why there is still the refusal to produce this right-wing extremism report when I know these figures. That's why my appeal is: I agree that something has moved there, the problem is taken seriously, but it needs a deeper analysis and discussion of this tsunami of right-wing crimes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8943	Next, Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e8965	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen in the audience galleries and in front of the TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the safest countries, even if some colleagues do not like it here. We have heard some details today in the current hour, but also during the discussion on the security report, and I would like to correct and relativize some figures. First of all, to close the waiting rooms: Police inspections have been assembled since 2008, but not so that there are fewer staff, but the staff level has remained the same. For comparison: From 2000 to 2006, more than 100 waiting rooms have been closed and 3,000 police officers have been rationalized. That wasn't all right, it's got to be shown! Mr Darmann, you have said a lot about this. We also need to stand by this when we thought that we agreed to a reduction at the time. [[Abg. Darmann: I was not in politics at the time, Mr. Colleague!]] On the 2013 Security Report, some comments were made: The report is divided into two major areas. On the one hand, information will be provided by the Interior, on the other hand by the Justice Department. Since 2008, when I came to the National Council, we have managed to shorten the time period between the period covered and the presentation of the security report. When we discussed the security situation of a period years later, we can now discuss it a few months later. I would like to thank all those involved very much for the shortening of this time span. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, the asylum area has already been addressed. If numbers do not correspond to what you would like to hear, then they will simply be silenced, nothing will be said. I have heard today from colleagues Darmann, but also from colleagues Ro-senkranz, that 80 percent of the asylum seekers are economic refugees here. I think my colleague is here. Amon has clearly reported that there has been a reduction in the number of asylum applications in many countries of origin. There has only been an increase in refugees from Syria and Afghanistan. But this is also understandable, because from there, refugees of war come to Austria. We need not less Europe, but more! Because if we hear that 10 percent of states carry out 90 percent of asylum procedures, we need a more just division. However, I would also like to address the point of the foreign movement, because this was referred to, according to Mrs Rosenkranz, we had fewer people outside the country: In 2013, the number of foreign transfers, i.e. returns, increased by 32 percent compared to 2012. [[Deputies Darmann and Walter Rosenkranz:In figures!]] The number of deportations has increased by around 3 percent, the shifts by approximately 150 percent, the voluntary return by around 10 percent and the Dublin transfers by about 15 percent. [[Call the FPÖ:In numbers!]] With 9 633 people in total, my dear Ladies and gentlemen, 2 343 more strangers brought out of the country than 2012. [[Abg. Darmann: How many should it have been?]] This must also be said here, even though some deny or conceal these figures. Finally, one more thing: Mr Hagen, you have tabled a motion for a resolution and you have also justified it. But, unfortunately, in the request you have made, it is only the point that a “personal increase in funds for the two Special Commissions” should be envisaged. You also have to mention which Commissions are meant to be, since there are several. These are clearly stated in the motion for a resolution. In conclusion: Of course, we need more money for the police so that it can also handle future tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9041	The next item is Mr Heinzl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9073	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2013 Security Report is a thorough, comprehensive and detailed overview of the security situation in Austria. As chairman of the Federal Social Democratic Freedom Fighters, victims of fascism and active antifascist/inn/en of Lower Austria, the subject of far-right crimes is of particular interest to me. That is why it is frightening for me that in 2013 the number of right-wing extremist crimes had to increase by 10.6 percent, i.e. in absolute terms an increase of 519 to 574 committed crimes. The fact that the education rate has increased can certainly be considered positive. I would also like to congratulate the employees of the Austrian and German Constitutional Protections, who only a few days ago succeeded in a common blow against the operators of a well-known Neonazi Forum. Also the judgments in the process of the “Object 21”, a well-known Neonazi meeting in Austria, which was taken a few days ago, are to be noted as very positive. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be clear to everyone that neo-Nazi drives are not tolerated by the Republic of Austria and its organs. Or, as our unfortunately too early President Prammer has always emphasized – I quote –: “A denial or impotence of the atrocities in the Third Reich must simply not be made salonable.” In view of the growing racism and anti-Semitism, it is also important not to discuss a reduction in the level of punishment for Nazi re-activating. This policy of zero tolerance, which I support, must also apply to all radical and anti-democratic attitudes in a democracy – and I stress that. Austria must be a defensive democracy, a democracy that will never tire of successfully defending attacks against our highest good, freedom. We must also be able to face the new challenges, especially the Islamic State and its global detours and crimes. We must ask ourselves how we deal with the young people who are willing to fight with the weapon in hand against our Western democracies. Since everyone today can download a construction instruction for a bomb from the Internet, from my point of view there is only one way: prevention. In addition to monitoring the relevant suspects, we also need concrete assistance for families and friends who fear that a precious person will slip into an extremist environment. That is why I expressly welcome the establishment of the deradicalisation line in the family ministry. It's very important to me to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary: The 2013 Security Report shows a further decline in crimes in Austria. This makes Austria one of the safest countries in the world, and that is irrevocable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9127	Mr Walter Rosenkranz spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9151	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to add a few words from this debate. We note, for example, that Mrs Yılmaz’s words ‘illegal immigration’, ‘economic refugee’ and ‘asyl abuse’ are pure foreign words. This is exactly the wrong access to matter, if you simply negate facts, look away, listen away. So you won't make a constructive policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] We have now heard how important it is to successfully combat right-wing extremism in Austria. We have the ad figures here, unfortunately the corresponding conviction figures are not available. At this point, however, I would like to say one thing to the friends of the Green Group and to Mr Pilz, who, in an inimitable way today, has thrown here again with Unflat without any material evidence: Sit with your friends, that their left-wing extremist drives, I think of ball events in Vienna and so on, finally stop. Just leave one to: Democracy and freedom of expression. That is something you should write yourself as a lupen-clean democrat, as you call yourself, even in the main book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pilz, your party must try really well to keep this House with immunity for as long as possible, because what you have done here will have a replay if your immunity is finally lifted. You're nothing but an immunity refugee here. [[Call: Not just here]] If Mrs Yılmaz in her speech said that the FPÖ has “Paranoia” – that is, in the field of a mental illness – and that does not result in a call for order, we take note of that. But then I'm allowed to say: Collaborator Pilz and others, live your complexes elsewhere!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9216	You're right, but I'm going to look at the paranoia in the stenographic protocol anyway. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This has happened a few times, Mr President.]] Next word: Deputies Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9248	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The efforts to make Austria one of the safest countries, despite the new challenges in security policy, are undisputed for me, and therefore I would like to thank you very much for the initiative, Mrs Bundesminister, which you are setting in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is not only the major measures taken by the BMI, but also many small activities put in place by dedicated police staff, which make a significant contribution. One point in this report concerns the prevention of crime and the victim aid itself. In addition to the persecution of crimes, the prevention of crime is an essential task for the fight against crime by our police. As the report points out, more than 38 000 consultations were carried out in 2013 by the staff in the various departments in the field of crime prevention, addressing some 385 000 people directly. There are very intensive consulting activities in many communities. I would like to mention my community here, where, together with the neighbouring communities, very intensive advisory activities and activities are put in the direction of information from the police inspection commander and his staff. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, there has already been a lot on the subject of education. I do not want to overestimate the percentages because they are very different. According to this report, they range from 35 per cent to 57 per cent. The structures, such as rural areas, urban areas, are often jointly responsible in this area, and this is reflected in this report. In the small community or small settlement in which I live, in the last few years three house burglaries or house collapses have taken place. A break-in means a shock to many people, it violates privacy, and the disturbed sense of security often weighs much more than material damage. It is therefore important that we re-establish this sense of security for citizens, and as a result, I welcome all the activities that are taking place in the direction of the police personnel increase, and would like to thank me very much for this. The Austrian Federal Government's work programme for the years 2013 to 2018 includes important projects and measures to combat crime effectively in various areas. It is important to work on their joint implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9302	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9331	Ladies and gentlemen! Don't worry, I won't say anything to the Freedom Party anymore, it won't pay off. It's about the Minister of Justice, an answer from him. The Minister of Justice has been unpunished for more than half an hour, and the bag is still there, so I turn – I am left with nothing else – to the Minister of Justice's bag. Dear Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice has made a statement on illegal gambling, which is insufficient and unsatisfying for me. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] He tried to drive a rope between our Judge Steinhauser and me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This is pointless because illegal gambling is one of the most dangerous forms of organized crime in this Republic, which has already claimed more than 100,000 victims and has affected tens of thousands of families, and which is more dangerous in terms of addiction than in Vienna's intoxicated crime. [[Abg. Wheelers: You won't change that!]] I urge the Minister of Justice not to hide behind wise councils, expert groups and section heads, but to say what he himself is up to. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Does he want to treat illegal gambling and corporations such as NOVOMATIC like park sinners in the context of administrative criminal law and make it possible for gambling companies to buy themselves out of organised crime with their billions of profits, or is he willing to fight this particularly dangerous form of organized crime through the Criminal Code? [[Abg. Wheeler: Sit down!]] That's what it's all about! That is exactly what the Minister of Justice should have answered! He didn't do that. But he will have to answer this question at the latest in the Committee on Justice. I assume that the colleagues and colleagues of all political groups in this House will ensure that criminal law protects the people of Austria from organised gambling crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9437	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-100. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Fight against tow crime'. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of temporary border controls. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, on compliance with the security pact between the BMI and the City of Styria. Whoever is here, please give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[12:26:23]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 612/A by Mrs Angela Lueger, Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Enrights concerning a Federal Act amending the Law on the Status of Persons 2013 and the Citizenship Act 1985 (274 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on the petition (18/PET) on the abolition of the 500-gram limit in the case of miscarriages and voluntary registration of all children in the register of persons, presented by Member Hermann Lipitsch(275 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9550	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9580	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since this is a consensual matter, I can take a bit shorter. What's this about? – It is about the central register or the Central Citizenship Register we are introducing. In future, it will ensure that information on birth, marriage and death comes into a central register. Up to now, the Offices have made such entries either handwritten or by way of their own computer systems. In the beginning, a central register will make the entire process more citizen-friendly, but above all more citizen-friendly, because in the future every reporting-respective office will be able to carry out the corresponding documents. One has worked very closely in the preparation of this with those who actually do so in practice in order to be able to choose the appropriate procedure. Of course, in such a large project, there is a risk that problems will arise when it comes to introducing such a project, that there will be failures in the electronic, technical field. In order to ensure that such short-term failures in the introduction of this central register of persons or Central Citizenship Register do not bring the entire work to a standstill, we want to allow an initiative application to nevertheless make appropriate registrations on the basis of a legal basis. That is why we are essentially dealing with this joint initiative proposal, which has already received very broad approval from the Committee, which I can now request. On the second point, which we are debating here under one, the so-called star children, my colleague Mag. Gerstl. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9619	The next item is Mrs Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9641	Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon referred to our joint request for the installation of a central register of persons. This was originally supposed to start in April 2013, is a bit holstered, was postponed to November 2013 and is now expected to enter into force on November 2014. Friday a week ago was a so-called stress test where this program went online. It failed after a quarter of an hour and didn't work completely. Last week, a Federal Labour Meeting of the St. Pölten Offices took place, where colleagues of the Ministry of the Interior were once again present to address all the problems. Unfortunately, there are still many, many childhood diseases in this system. That is why this proposal is very important so that the citizens have no disadvantage because they would not receive documents. There is currently a high quality when certificates are issued. They will also be issued in a very short time, speak on the same day, and we should stick to that. On our second subject, to the star children, I would like to make a motion for a resolution. It is a real pleasure for me that this request, which concerns unborn children, has become an all-party request. Miscarriage children have not been registered in the personal status register in Austria until now. Now, in the example of Germany, a possibility is to be created. Germany has already made the rule in May of last year that, at the request of the parents, these children, whom they have called with the very, very beautiful term ‘star children’, can be registered. I would therefore like to make the above-mentioned request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This legal regulation cannot relieve the pain of parents, but it should comfort them that they have to suffer the loss of a child. They should have a chance to say good - bye to her child. This change in the Person Status Act is therefore not only legal and family-political for fathers and mothers of these star children. I think it is a question of humanity that is outstanding and necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9710	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lueger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9771	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9793	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If we are talking in the current debate on computer problems in the central register of persons or the Central Citizenship Register, which was newly created, then we are discussing something here, which is now a “never ending story”, because as mentioned earlier, Not to be completed with 1. November 2014 to enter into force, but the programs that the computer facility should work with that day. In fact, this computer system, which replaced the passenger status books and citizenship evidence, would already have been in place on 1 January. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== That is why the present proposal by SPÖ and ÖVP was not surprising for us. Rather, this is an absolute necessity if we want to comply with the desire and also with the legitimate resolution of the trade union of Austrian civil servants. It is these ladies and gentlemen who, with this computer solution, have to carry out their concerns quickly, in the sense of the population, quickly, effectively, but also in the final analysis. And still – and I would like to stress this here too, because this information has been given to me once again after the last week meeting of the staff officials – there is not only “children’s diseases” in this system, but also a correspondingly poor data quality, non-existent data stability and ungiven data security when it comes to the processing of citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, in the interests of the population and the rapid handling of their concerns, it is absolutely necessary to implement the proposal here today, so that we can also legally ensure that the passenger status authorities are able to access the previously used citizenship revisions and personal status books if the computer fails. Since we have already given our support in the decision-making of the legal standards for the introduction of these computer systems, it is of course only fair for us to agree and support this improvement in the sense of a future, rapid and rapid settlement of citizens' concerns. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9832	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9853	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with the star children, the petition and the request. Mrs. Lueger has already mentioned it, so far it has not been possible for unborn children under 500 grams of birth weight to enter the personal register. This has de facto felt for the parents as if this child had never existed legally, although it has, of course, existed for the parents, for the family and the friends. A petition was sent to Parliament by affected parents to make an amendment. I find it very encouraging from two perspectives that we have now made a common proposal here. One perspective is mourning policy, the other is democracy policy. Getting Now You're asking yourself: Sad policy, what is that supposed to be, I've never heard before? – Yes, that’s a term we don’t use in this form yet. I do not mean the mourning about politics, it would be more like to settle in democracy policy, but I mean politics, framework conditions that deal with grief. Grief is something you all have experienced before or will certainly experience. There is no human being who is opposed to having to experience sometime grief – whether by the death of close relatives, friends or, as the present request for content has been made, by children, whether of premature children or of children who have died of sudden infant death. Death belongs to Life is part of that, and therefore also of the grief of life. Of course, grief is processed differently, there are very individual processes. I am not only dealing with this as a politician, but also with it as a consultant, and I am aware that politics has not yet created sufficient framework conditions for people to need. For example, we have the following problem: If child dependants have a child dying of sudden child death, the next day of child benefits and the corresponding other legal regulations will end. This would mean that children's benefits would have to go back to work from one day to another – on the occasion of this very tragic situation they are experiencing, under shock, in grief. We have the situation that people lose a close family, lose a child, lose a partner. The whole life is, as it were, put on the head. You don't know how it's supposed to continue the next day. Everything we currently provide by law is a few days before it is possible to clarify the funeral situation, to clarify the formal situations. But if someone needs more time to live through this grief process, then he either has to go to the infirmary, that is, to say, mourning is the same as illness – I say, no, that's not it, because that's just a part of life – or he has to take a vacation. Grief, believe me, and you all know that, anything is other than a relaxing vacation. There's a lot to do here. We will, because I see the colleague Aubauer here, also have to deal with this issue in the survey “Wald at the end of life”. It is also about how we deal with dying, how we deal with the dying. But, I think, we also have to deal with the question of how we politicians can create the framework conditions here, so that grief can be given a good place that she needs. The joy of democracy in this context is that this change was actually a petition. Now you all know how many petitions and initiatives reach us. This is a very good example of the fact that the people concerned are drawing attention to a problem here, and that, unfortunately, it is not always that, at last, all the parties – including possible ideological barriers and other constraints that we are subject to – are saying yes, there is a problem, it is actually not to be seen in our view that this should remain so, and that we have undertaken to make this request. I am therefore pleased for democratic reasons. We will also be dealing with democracy policy in a survey in the next six months. And it would be good for us, as I believe, if we regularly also take initiatives that come from outside exactly in this seriousness and then bring to a positive end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9912	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9933	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As regards item 2, which deals with the Central Register of Persons and the Register of Citizenship, I have a small Déjà-vu. I'm a civilian police officer, formerly a army officer. I remember the driver's license law. Although it already had legal power, it had to be reformed several times so that it could be implemented at all. It is similar to me now, even if at least one solution has been found that people do not exist without anything. But a law will be introduced and then it will have to be reformed or an emergency legislation will be made so that something worse can not happen. In an official state, I am now saying how Austria is – and we have a lot of officials, including good officials – that should not happen. Nevertheless, my group will vote in favour of this law, as it is necessary. I don't want to go into that anymore. It has already been said by my previous speakers. Agenda item 3 deals with the star children. I am very pleased that we were able to find a joint request here. I have already prepared a request and have been contacted to see if we will make a joint request for it. I was there immediately, of course, and I dropped my request. I think that's a necessity. It has also been mentioned by my previous speakers that it is very, very important for the parents of such a child to do mourning work and give this early child, who has not survived, an identity. I believe that this is very, very important for the siblings who exist before or after that. That is, as I mean, a necessity, a good thing. That is why we will, of course, very strongly support this proposal. The petition presented here has its very clear right. We'll be happy to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9972	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e9994	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Before addressing the subject of star children in my speech, I would like to express my express thanks to my colleague, Mr Musiol, for bringing in the subject of mourning policy. I think it is an important discourse that we should continue to conduct in the future. On one point I would like to contradict you. If indeed the tragic case of a child's loss occurs, it is not customary for the mother or the father to start working again afterwards, but there is the possibility of staying at home because of incapacity for work. In any case, I would like to address the issue of petition. On the basis of this important issue, it has been seen that both the Committee on Petitions and the Committee on Special Affairs and Citizens' Rights have been able to find a consensus, form a common request and put it to the plenary session. What is the great hope here? – On the one hand, of course, we find the right solution for the mothers and fathers concerned, but on the other hand we also learn from this approach and encourage people to continue addressing Parliament directly, because we can discuss and implement their issues together. So please continue with a lot of courage, and use direct democracy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10027	Mrs. Mag now has herself. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10050	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! With 1. November will be the central register of persons – a project we have been working on for a very long time, a project with which we will also set a very large milestone towards civil administration and, above all, more service for our population. You know how it worked so far. The central information on persons from birth to marriage or registered partnership to death was administered locally by the Offices and entered into so-called employment books, so this information was distributed to 1,400 authorities. Similar to the situation in citizenship. ==References====External links==* Official website November all of this will belong to the past, and all cases of human standing will also be centrally stored and managed. The focus of all this work, all this development, was, of course, the service for citizens, the added value for citizens. What does that mean for the population? – That is to say, all documents are about marriage, about birth and partnership, can be issued at every office, and citizens save themselves a lot of ways and, above all, a lot of time. Data protection was, of course, a very central issue in the development of this project, with many data protection measures and only those persons who have the right to do so or who also need this data under the law. It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that, of course, a lot of tasks and challenges were to be achieved, not only in terms of technical nature, but also in terms of application and operation in the future. Each of us knows that new things are of course always a challenge and a certain irritation. But we have succeeded in bringing together all these data in a joint agreement between the BMI, the countries and the municipalities. 1 300 municipalities have registered their data with different quality and range here – yes, a great challenge, but we have done it in the same way as we did with the 1. Start November and now, above all, start with this loop, which, if necessary, can also be pulled in, for which I thank you very much. We were particularly concerned with training so that application can also be ensured. That too, I admit, will certainly be a challenge on the part of users, but I am firmly convinced that after a few months of practice, the necessary quality or routine will be present. In addition to the register, this also concerns the Central Citizenship Register, where the citizen also saves time and, above all, many ways. So you see, in the truest sense of the word, this is an administrative simplification and above all more civil service for our people – a parade example of how modern administration works. We are in this area in particular, in terms of technology, in the 21st century. ==References== I say a warm thank you for all this effort. It was in the truest sense of the word a huge project, a monster project, but above all also a milestone. Thanks again to all my experts in the house, who have brought in a lot of expertise and also patience. With regard to the petition to the star children, I hope that we will achieve a common solution between the health resort and the interior. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10109	The last speaker to this debate was provisionally: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to refer to your last sentence, namely the problem of star children. I believe that we have achieved something quite great, or rather we will succeed in something great, namely that a petition that has been signed by hundreds and now thousands of people will also be heard in Parliament. I would also like to thank all the parties who are now supporting this motion for a resolution and, above all, Mr Lipitsch, who has tabled it. What's this about? – I think it’s probably one of the most tragic situations that parents will be able to face if their child dies early and then, alone because there is a limit of 500 grams, it is not allowed to appear in the books. I have a great deal of understanding that it is a concern for people to lose a child, to be able to say goodbye to him, and to give the child a name and bury the child, and perhaps to give it to the ultrasound images they have had and say: That was our child. This is important for the siblings, for the descendants and for one’s own mourning work. That is why this petition should be heard quickly. I would like to thank the Minister for her spontaneous statement on the last committee: Yes, we want to solve this problem of star children who are not registered today, and the officials of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health will sit down and find a solution because it must not be possible for us to cover the children on our own under international statistical rules. Let's give the star children their dignity they deserve!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10163	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. The rapporteur did not wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the People's Status Act 2013 and the Citizenship Act 1985, including title and entry into 274 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 275 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Debates of the European Parliament Musiol, Hagen, Mag. Alm, colleagues on “star children”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 43.) [[12:55:50]] 4. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (270 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the general Civil Code and the Corporate Code on the Reform of Society of Civil Law (GesbR-Reformgesetz – GesbR-RG) (297 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10249	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Steinacker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10276	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciated fellow citizens, especially the many who are at the gallery today! Henry Ford once said: Getting together is a start, keeping progress together, working together a success. In my opinion, this applies mainly to the economy, but also to sport and politics. It is hardly possible to achieve anything alone economically. We need people we trust with whom we can vote daily. For successful cooperation we need legal regulations within a framework, i.e. the legally organised society. For this reason, companies have been developed: on the one hand, the individual companies, such as the open company or the commander company or capital companies, you all know them: the GesmbH or the stock company. The original form of all societies is the so-called society of civil law. Two or more persons jointly bring in labour or wealth to establish a GesbR, as it is short term. It is important that the common goal is at the heart of the common partnership. Society on and on its own is only the means for the purpose, the shareholders as persons remain in the foreground. It is therefore not a legal person, the exact reverse example of a stock company. A GesbR cannot, by any means, own or sell as a company, but only the shareholders themselves. People stay at the centre. It is the simplest of all forms of society and well suited for many applications. Small entrepreneurs join forces, freelancers, in the agricultural and forestry sectors we experience them very often. And that, ladies and gentlemen, what you all certainly know, is the construction site panels where “ARGE” stands out, working community for construction projects. These are forms of society according to civil law. The GesbR regulations are 200 years old. I respect rules that have been valid for so long and effective for our legal system. But they are No more contemporary. They have caused the GesbR to become less attractive in recent years, and therefore there is a need for modernisation, i.e. action needs. The project “ABGB 200plus” is planned for the complete recast within the framework of the project initiated by Mr Wolfgang Brandstetter. It restores legal certainty and legal clarity for all, modern and clear regulations. Society is to become a popular part of our cooperation. I should like to sum up briefly the essential advantages. It remains a society that is extremely flexible. The private autonomy of the parties remains largely preserved and can be established for any permitted purpose. Secondly, The company, of course, generates income. I hope so. If it generates more than €700 000 a year, it must be entered in the company's book and converted into an open society. The turnover limit of € 700 000 is at the same time the limit for accounting. In society there is now – this is the third point – the new possibility that the management will be exercised by a co-owner in representation for all. Only in the case of exceptional activities of the company must prior consent be obtained from the other shareholders. We have the fourth big point: New rules concerning shareholders and the overall legal succession. It is now specifically regulated and adapted to the resolution and liquidation provisions of the open society. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on Justice, we have once again proved how constructive our discussion and cooperation are. We have unanimously adopted this bill. I am really proud of this because it allows us to see that society is the simplest model for successful economic cooperation in the future after the decision of the new ones. And: This gives you, valued citizens, the opportunity to read a clear, modern, clear, summary law. This will also bring you a lot of benefits in the application. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10343	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10365	Mr President. Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In the light of today's discussion, it is not so spectacular what we are discussing here and finally decide. Nevertheless, it is a whole, very important matter, because there is simply an essential legal structure in living together between people and living together in society, which is a kind of starting point for cooperation: This is civil society law, which can be concluded, for example, in communities of life. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] It can also be concluded. That is to say, one does not conclude a formal contract, but acts outwardly, so that for every outsider there is no doubt that this is a form of cooperation. It's I have already spoken to the previous speaker, where this is mainly the case: In communities of life there is this, but also in large working communities. The ARGE is such a merger of large enterprises to achieve a defined objective. In the past, we have often discussed how open questions about society of civil law, which science has already developed, are finally codified. – A working group has been working here, and it is now possible that we will restructure civil society with a new regulation in the ABGB. Previously, Mr Katzian pointed out to me that a civil society exists, for example, in the case of ‘restart’. So we are not aware of where this form of society works everywhere. It is true that this is the area where there is no Open company or commander company is founded which is registered in the company's book, but where the company is already established outside, i.e. without registration in the company's book. It should essentially be very dispositive, i.e. it should be for the respective partners to create and design a special design according to their own wishes and needs. This makes them very attractive, of course, because for everything you want to do together – now with a slightly more precise formulation in the law – the legal possibility is offered precisely. Mr Minister, I would like to thank you, and above all, for the ministry as a whole, for the very valuable preparatory work and also for the group around Professor Krejci, which has been very massively involved here, so that we can finally finish this today, and develop a small piece of social law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10413	Next item is the report by Mr Vetter. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10434	Greetings, Madam President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, we decide to re-establish a part of the ABGB – which, as has been said, has been in force for more than 200 years – that part of the GesbR. § 1175 defines as follows: If two or more persons conclude a contract in order to pursue a common purpose through a particular activity, they form a company. This company does not result from its registration in the company's book. It does not exist because the state grants a concession, but it exists because two or more people join together. The colleague from the SPÖ said that this is not so spectacular. – This is something spectacular! This is a part of our freedom that we do not need the state to unite, but that we alone make this decision through our cooperation. States that do not have a liberal economic order regulate, give concessions and hold their hands on them. In this, the simplest form of association of company law, this is not necessary. We need a good legal framework that does not exceed the goal. It also reminds us that there is a connection between freedom and justice which, yes, I would say, has already been resolved in an ideal way. There is an Austrian Nobel Prizewinner, who once Book has written: Law, legislation and freedom. This interaction of law, legislation and freedom brings us forward, and that is exactly what is being sought by this law today. We increase our degrees of freedom by creating legal certainty in the field of civil law. It is also a company that has wealth; these rules are also made. I'd like to make a point and say: Capitalism also belongs to capital! This too is included in this law, where we are actually developing the market economy. It has also been said that we can apply this form of society from the simplest practical community of a profession to a consortium, a credit consortium or a working group on construction. So it is really a further development of the market economy. However, I would also like to take this reform on the occasion of further thought. It is not only the GesbR that is concerned here, it is also affected in very few areas of the OG and the KG. But let us perhaps take this opportunity to think about the need for change in other areas of company law too! I would like to think here of the share law, where there have been many novelties recently, which have always been accompanied by an indication that shareholders' rights have been strengthened. I don't quite see that, I still see a lot of need for change. I believe that there can be much more to do to strengthen shareholders' rights and thus make public supervision, as some have thought, necessary. Perhaps this is the one aspect we can take with us. It is also something else that makes the economic location attractive – in addition to the legal framework: Of course, it is also the fiscal and economic conditions that one must always have in mind. I am saying this because in the last few days we have had to read that part of the CA Immo has been taken over by a foreign group, that part of the airport has been taken over by a foreign fund, and all of us are also in the stomach that Deutsche Telekom has been partially taken over. We need to see that there are also the relevant economic conditions in Austria. I also say that there must be capital in Austria so that Austrian societies are not bought out from outside. Please remember. You also have this connection when you think about the next tax reform! Furthermore, I believe that the lawyer's tariff is adjusted and the expert's rules are re-regulated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10496	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10517	Madam President. Mr. Minister! One minute's not long. It is true that on such long days, the time for the smallest opposition party is always passing very quickly, and it is in nature that one wants to focus on the points where one is contrary to the government. [[Abg. Darmann: Come on!]] [[Further calls.]] So when I saw that, I thought, I didn't even sign up, but we didn't actually promise that. Therefore, in short: We agree with this reform. We also congratulate this draft. I think he's very balanced. I think it is good that legal certainty has been created here in many areas. It has also been implemented very well legally. We particularly appreciate the NEOS that there will continue to be private autonomy. In this respect, we would have been skeptical if we were to regulate the field of living communities in a comprehensive way. I also have to say that through the long review period and the introduction of many opinions, the best-practice example of how to make laws in Austria shows itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10560	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10581	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The GesbR is a very successful model. It is, after all, the oldest form of society still in force today in Austria. That's already proof that she's very successful. However, the aim of this reform is to make it easier for it to become clearer and clearer, because in practice there are still challenges, on the one hand uncertainties in business traffic, but also additional legal advice costs. This is to belong to the past, with the reform meaning that the key features of the GesbR are still to be preserved. There are currently several thousand GesbRs; You heard it. It is particularly interesting for smaller enterprises, for agriculture and forestry, for working communities, also for freelances. It's a very broad arch. What we must not forget is that in this form of society, the shareholders are liable: personally, with their entire operating assets, with their entire private assets, that they are unlimitedly liable that they are also subsidised. So it's a special form of society. Therefore, it is good that our attention should be focused on it. It is important that partners are free to organise the social contract, which is left to them, and that working communities can also work here. This is particularly important for economic impulses. What is it about when we make the GesbR future fit? – It is important that we strengthen the economy, stimulate investment and thus also secure and create jobs. There has recently been an IMAS survey, which states that two thirds of companies say that overall labour pressure has increased enormously, and one of the key factors is bureaucracy. It burdenes the middle class enormously! This also applies to our address, namely: expensive laws, but also lengthy procedures, reporting obligations without end and very rigid checks. It takes a lot of time and nerves and money. It must therefore be an objective to relieve the middle class, GesbRs, SMEs, also the agricultural sector of bureaucracy, which is the largest employer in Austria with 2 million people. In reality, these enterprises secure the social system, they are also responsible for having a low youth unemployment and that many apprentices are being trained. There are currently 40 points in the government's programme to reduce bureaucracy, a so-called "fast time of bureaucracy" is to be proclaimed. I consider this to be a serious command of the hour, because in Austria everyone is moaning under bureaucratic Challenges, under enormous reporting obligations! It is a question of whether all these documents are necessary. Here we need more attention again. The European Union has also adopted this, and I should like to conclude by mentioning, especially for the economic impulse, as regional speakers: The partnership agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Austria has recently been handed over by Commissioner “Gio” Hahn, in which the programme of the individual funds will be presented for the next period by 2020: Regional Fund, Social Fund, Agricultural Fund. For rural areas, a total of €5 billion is available in this period for impulses into the medium-sized economy, in the agricultural sector, in the rural area as a whole, to create and secure jobs. Suitable forms of society are the legal prerequisites for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10639	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10661	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Very soon: You know that StGB is from 1975, you can say in the Midlife crisis, and the ABGB is far beyond. Since 2011, we have taken the plan that we will gradually renew the ABGB, which is already more than 200 years old. Part of this renewal project is the complete redesign of the right of civil society law which is now underway in the ABGB. This civil society, despite its high age, is still a fundamentally attractive form of law. This is because of its extraordinary flexibility. Most of the provisions are more dispositive, and they will remain in the future. That is why Mrs Vetter is right when he says: It is also an outpouring of freedom that such a form of society continues to exist, which is not to be changed by the nature of the law. It will continue to have no legal capacity of its own. However, their transformation into an open society, an OG, is now explicitly regulated and thereby facilitated in the sense of an overall legal succession. That makes sense, too. Civil society law is very often not a business activity. We have now also explicitly stated that it can be established for any legal purpose. Again: Outflow of freedom! That's right. As in the past, it can be a pure inner society and cannot even appear in legal traffic. However, if it acts as an external company, it is intended to have a name pointing to the existence of such a company – in the sense of legal protection to the outside, for the participants in the legal traffic. The dispositive and therefore freely-formable inner life of society has been adapted to the well-known and proven regulations of the OG, thus facilitating later transformation. The Executive Board's powers shall, in principle, cover itself with the power of representation outside, unless otherwise agreed. As previously adopted by the Judicature, the shareholders are bound by this rule in solidarity. The demands of the company are intended to be total manual demands. The issues of succession to company creation have also been addressed more specifically in the interest of society's continued existence. The very positive outcome of the review process has strengthened us in the fact that it was time to reorganise this still in diverse use legal form of modern dogmatics accordingly. We have tried to obtain the benefits of the GesbR and to create a sensible, appropriate legal basis for the cases where the shareholders have not specifically agreed on anything. That's a success. It is a very successful legislative plan, and I am also pleased that it is now so far as we can say it, but I do not wish to miss the opportunity to point out at this point – as I say, my colleague, rather than my ceterum censeo – that this very constructive procedure is ultimately also due to the judicial committee and the climate prevailing there. On this occasion, I would really like to thank the President of the Committee on Justice and all the judicial representatives of the parties represented in Parliament for this, because that is the way to achieve such fine results. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10709	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Worm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10730	Madam President. Federal Minister! We decide here in a few minutes the reform of civil society law. Civil society is the oldest form of society known to our legal system. Many provisions on this society are still based – we have heard it several times today – on the ABGB, which dates back to 1811, is now 203 years old. That is why the reform after 200 years is already at the highest level of time. Civil society law is defined by a concentration of at least two persons, with common objectives being pursued by these persons. The purpose of this merger is a Community benefit. No legal person shall be formed. Civil society law cannot occur in legal proceedings, can not conclude contracts, do not conduct any processes or be sued as such, as a society. Nevertheless, society's civil law in practice does not have an underestimable meaning. It is therefore very positive that the reform to be decided today will bring about a modernisation of this form of society. It has already been mentioned by Mr Jarolim and also by other speakers that this society is always used if it is not desired that there be durability or a lot of public, but if a particular purpose is pursued. For this, for example, the ARGE has already been mentioned, in which companies which, for example, operate a joint construction site. In the communities mentioned above, society is also happy to be taken as a form of society. In principle, therefore, civil society can be established for any permitted purpose. It is not a legal person and cannot be entered in the company book. In order to establish a social contract, there is no need for any form – this is also important because it can be founded very informally. It has already been pointed out a few times today about the freedom of citizens. Freedom increases with the number of possibilities – I learned this relatively quickly at the Jus-Studium in Innsbruck at the time – and here more freedom is created for the legal subjects. Summary: It is a good development and it is to thank the lawyers in the house. In this sense, I am already looking forward to further reforms that you have announced so that we can further develop this honorable older elegant lady in the ABGB. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Brandstetter]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10779	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll set you up for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10800	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In many cases, civil society law finds a very wide range of applications. My colleagues have already mentioned practical examples here, from small businesses to the practical community to law firms et cetera. This shows me, of course, that such a form of society is being lived and that today's decision also shows us this form of society in the 21st century. ==References== My previous speakers have already talked about the innovations – or better: the modernisation – of the GesbR. I might want to highlight the background very briefly. This GesbR reform is divided into a number of other reforms, whose overarching objective is the partial revision of the General Civil Code – a process which was launched by Beatrix Karl as the then Minister of Justice in 2011 and which is being continued today under the slogan “ABGB 200+” under Minister of Justice Brandstetter. This aims to modernise the basic law on civil law in Austria as a whole and to adapt it to the changed economic, social and legal conditions, taking into account that both the basic structure and the importance of the ABGB as the source of justice of the very first rank are maintained. This process, as has been said, is being continued by Minister of Justice Brandstetter today with the presentation of the GesbR. In order to perhaps also offer a view of what will come here in the future: The next step is to further develop inheritance law. The aim should also be to modernise the right of inheritance, to make linguistic adjustments, including clarifications, and to align the right of inheritance with social claims. Finally, I am pleased that there is a great deal of support for this project. I am looking forward to broad discussions on all further steps and I should like to thank Mr Beatrix Karl, Minister of Justice, who has started this step and this process. A thanks also to Minister of Justice Brandstetter, who continues this project. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10840	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Grossmann. I'll set you up for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10862	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only good laws are getting old. – This can be said for the ABGB in alternation of another proverb. From 1811, the basic structure of the regulatory content is also applicable in today's society, which has changed considerably in the meantime. But here too, of course: Those who want to preserve good must change some things. This also applies to civil society law, which from its legal nature is probably the most stretchable, flexible, most individual form of society, with the lowest rules of form. It has also made it a catch-up network for all possible forms of mergers of people, often not explicitly completed, but finally achieved through certain implementations, for example – which is often not so conscious at all – in events, organisation of travels, i.e. in Community undertakings in which various contributions are made. Thus, civil society has also become a platform for legal progress, particularly used intensively in the context of family law, in order to establish, for example, in non-marital communities, especially when it comes to the sharing of assets, liabilities, some fair criteria as to how all this is to be divided. I have also assured myself whether there are any effects on these very family constellations. That was denied. – However, I would like to stress that it also needs special family-law constructions here, but that is another story. To sum up, let me say that this reform has been a good success, that greater legal certainty, greater legal clarity is created, and that this keeps society's civil rights alive. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10904	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European On. I'll set you up for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10925	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Minister! The history of this reform of society's civil law is that already in the government programme of SPÖ and ÖVP for the last legislative period, the AGS was planned to renew its 200-year inventory and to revise in part – as we have already heard. With regard to civil society law, it was found that it was still largely in force in the original version of 200 years ago. This demonstrates, on the one hand, the great sustainability of the General Terms and Conditions, but on the other hand some provisions were no longer in time, such as those for the management or liability of the shareholders. In this sense, the Ministry of Justice had set up a working group. A high quality version has come out after mature consultation and objective discussion. The GesbR is thus adapted and modernized to today's life, but retains its basic structure. This continues to be the priority of private autonomy. “Priority of private autonomy” means that, as before, the formation of the social relationship is in principle the responsibility of the parties to the social contract. It follows that the legal provisions are largely dispositive. However, the important issues of society's order are to be answered by the laws, and this is also the case. The GesbR should remain unchanged in its essential characteristics. That is to say, it is not granted its own legal personality, so it cannot be a legal person It will be the This would not be useful either, for the legislator would be ill advised if he created his own legal entity without registration in a public register. Civil society law must also not be included in the company's book. However, if the GesbR operates a company whose annual turnover exceeds a certain value, it must be converted into an open company or a commander company in accordance with the provisions of the UGB and entered very well into the company's book. The civil society had a certain reception function from the very beginning. They are also founded if one does not consider the high publicity and form requirements of the open society or the commanding society to be appropriate. In practice, this is often the case for working communities – in short, ARGE – such as for the development of large construction projects. No capital is required to raise cash at the time of the establishment. It may be enough that the shareholders do not bring any money at all, but only their labour force, and that is also in line with economic practice. In private, in communities of life, it should continue to be possible to use civil law in practice. For the life practice of many Austrians, the society of civil law is important. Therefore, it is a step forward that we can bring about a modernisation, greater legal certainty through this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e10981	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 270 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That's the unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:31:49]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 607/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues on a federal law amending the rule of law (298 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11042	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schrangl. I'll give it to him and put it in three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11069	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear group of citizens from Bad Gleichenberg, welcome to Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call from the gallery.]] - I didn't understand. [[Abg. Jarolim: That was addressed to you, my colleague. You have to answer that!]] - Oh, what did he say? [[Abg. Haider: Jarolim can't repeat it himself!]] This is the request for negotiation. ==References== Stability law was adopted at the time to raise the value limits. And today it will be decided again that we will not raise them any further. It is expected to remain with the €15 000, where the value limit is currently. Unfortunately, we have not been told at the time when we were raised how high the utilization of the district courts is, nor is this request showing how high the utilization is now and why the border no longer needs to be raised. I don't know if the applicants of the government groups know for themselves. But it would have been great if that had been notified to the opposition, because then we could all vote on the same level of information. Mrs Mag. Steinacker, my colleague from the Committee on Justice, has already said that there is a constructive climate in the Committee on Justice. - Yeah, that's right. But it would be even more constructive if you let us share the information you have. Then you can also cooperate constructively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The intention of the law at that time was to “strengthen the regional structures” (I quote). And now I wonder if the intention of this law is now to prepare the next wave of closure of district courts. Assuming shut-down wave. Tomorrow, the constitutional change concerning the “snow ban” is under negotiation, and I wonder if this is intelligent and if it could not be made more intelligent: It should not be decided on this, but how the citizen has access to courts and law. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is the goal!]] - That's the goal. That's right, you might be able to do better once in a while. I would certainly like to be the first counter-voicer of my post-voicer, former Minister of Justice, Karl, Enlightenment, to know whether we need this freezing of the value limits, because the district courts are sufficiently burdened. I also wish to inform myself whether the promised savings were realized with the merger of district courts at the time, or whether all this was just wishful thinking. I am also interested – and I would also like to know about this – in how the opposition parties then justify their consent to this request. Please do that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11153	Mrs Dr Karl came to speak. I give the floor to you and add 4 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11175	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners up there! [[towards gallery, from which a group of the speaker swings]] Especially dear like-mindeds! I am of course very pleased to hear you listen to me today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The demarcation of the jurisdiction of the District Courts and the Regional Courts takes place in two ways. On the one hand, there is the so-called self-reliance. These are matters which are assigned to one of the two types of court regardless of the level of the dispute. In addition, there is also the competence of value. Here it is crucial to the level of the dispute value whether the District Court or the Regional Court is responsible. Of course, it is obvious that such a value limit must always be raised, adjusted. ==References====External links== Stability Act 2012. This provided for a three-stage increase in the value limit. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== This increased from € 10 000 to € 15 000. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In January 2016 it was planned. This was therefore necessary because the last substantial increase in the value limit had already been lowered for some time, namely about 14 years. At that time, the value limit was increased from 100 000 schilling to 130 000 schilling. Of course, it is perfectly clear that, in the meantime, a devaluation of money has also taken place, and this devaluation of money had to be compensated. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, indeed?- Oh, my God!]] This required an increase of more than 30 percent. That was the reason for the increase in 2012. The second reason was the already addressed utilization of the district courts and the national courts. The Ministry of Justice is constantly monitoring how the courts are burdened. And it has been shown that the national courts are more burdened than the district courts. A balance should also be made here. Now, of course, the question is: Why did we choose this three-step procedure? One could have done the raising in one step. We have therefore decided on the three steps, because we also wanted to have a phase of evaluation after the first step, so after the first step one can observe the effects of the increase. Not only the impact on the achievement of the objective, but also the impact on the field of justice in the courts and the courts of the state, but also, of course, the impact on the law department in the courts of the State. If this evaluation, this observation, has shown this review that the above objectives have really been achieved, then it is no longer necessary to take further action. And I trust the ministry that it has observed very well here, very well evaluated whether the further steps are necessary or not. For if the objectives have already been achieved, then this draft really makes sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11220	I call Mr Jarolim. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11242	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! One can actually add to the very detailed presentation of colleague Karl very little. At the time, a staggering, a gradual adjustment of the value limits was planned to ensure that the number of cases in place between district courts and national courts was detracted. After an in-depth survey of the persons concerned by the Federal Minister, we have found that a situation has now been achieved in which a balanced relationship between the cases in question is ensured. Therefore, it is important and also courageous to make a planned innovation, which was already relatively controversial at the time – and that must also be said – simply and simply not to do so. I am a little sorry that Mr Schrangl was excluded from a flow of information, and I must say that we are always having appropriate preliminary discussions in the Committee on Justice, fractional and five- and six-party discussions. [[Abg. Schrangl: Do you know? Then tell me!]] For example, if you were to ask colleagues Darmann, he could, if he had been there at the meeting, give you comprehensive information as to why we are doing this today, which is simply and simply a positive view. The discussions always have a high level of information. [[Abg. Darmann: That's where I'd have to be invited!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Are the committee meetings or private rounds?]] At the time, the Federal Minister has already announced to us the visit of the group from Bad Gleichenberg, which I warmly welcome, and that has also occurred. So one can simply assume that one should make use of these institutional preparations, then it is good. Ladies and gentlemen! We have thus achieved something that is good for justice, namely good utilization. I am glad that this will work together, and I hope that the FPÖ will be involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11305	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11326	Ladies and gentlemen! To the motivation why it comes to this innovation of the novels – so you have to call it – a lot has already been said. It is about depriving itself of the utilization of district courts and national courts. This is not directly related to district court decisions, because the question of the value limit has nothing to do with the organisation of district jurisdiction. [[Abg. Jarolim: It's on the agenda tomorrow!]] This is on the agenda tomorrow, as Mr Jarolim says. The issue is that the utilization is such that it is enforceable both for the district courts and for the national courts. The desire not to further adapt these value limits came from the judicial system. This is a wish of the judiciary that has found that the value limit of €15 000 ensures that the labour burden between the national courts and the district courts is outrageous. Minister of Justice, the use of justice is a good topic. You know that the Council of Europe study on the efficiency of justice has been published last week. You have also enjoyed this study in a press release, but you have not mentioned a few aspects that have to do with the use of jurisdiction that you already have to mention. This study compares the different judicial systems in Europe and comes to a very striking conclusion with regard to the use of jurisdiction in Austria: If you look at how many judges there are per hundred thousand inhabitants in Austria, there are just over 18, but on the European average 21. We have lost 10 percent of all judges since 2006. If you look at how many prosecutors there are per hundred thousand inhabitants, there is an even more extreme misunderstanding: in Austria, a little more than four, Europe on average, eleven. That's a difference that's striking. Every prosecutor in Austria has 1,500 new cases per year, Europe on average is only 400. These are data that must already be of interest to us. – I know what will come now: However, the Austrian judicial system is fast in the process. That's right, but you have to ask yourself how long a system works that works on the limit. In the short term, we may succeed in the longer term, and we will discuss this in two, three, four, five years, I am absolutely sure that this ratio of residents to judges will not work and the duration of the proceedings will naturally rise. For a time it is always possible to intercept that. However, procedures are becoming more complex, they are becoming more difficult. We decide one law after another – that may be okay – perhaps some kind of relief from the criminal code – I don't believe it, and the judges will be less. That can't work! This cannot work, and we must therefore also talk about this aspect of justice, which you have less liked. That's why he wasn't in your OTS broadcast either. A functioning judicial system, rapid procedures, a sensible and necessary provision of justice ensure the quality of the rule of law, and that is our concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11363	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11384	Madam President. This now fits very well with today's decision-making: the withdrawal of another originally planned adjustment of the value limits. Mr Schrangl, you know that the facts and facts on which this is about are not a secret. They could have gotten them at any time, including in the judicial committee. That's not a subject at all. What's this about? – It is about data and facts due to an up-to-date controlling that we have of course. We're always looking at the court burden very carefully, and that's a good thing. As a result of this controlling, we were able to see that the goal of achieving a meaningful utilization of both the district courts and the courts of the first instance could already be achieved by the first stage of these value-border negotiations. Everything else is neither necessary nor useful. On the contrary, it would even be counterproductive. That is the only reason why we do not want to continue. Mr Schrangl, you actually have a mistake of thinking in your argument, because, in fact, what we are doing now is exactly the opposite of what you fear. We also want to continue to ensure that the district courts are used at a reasonable level. This has nothing at all to do with a threatening further wave of closures of dishes, as you have put it into the room now. This is totally missing, has nothing to do with it. In fact, the very opposite is true. We're trying to make sure we're using it. We want to ensure that scarce personnel resources, as already mentioned, can really be used to the best possible extent. That is why what you have said is not in itself coherent. I can assure you: What this is about today is absolutely nothing to do with any planning of further closures. It's just not like that, would it be illogical? Secondly, I am of course very grateful for what Mr Steinhauser has said. Yes, this Council of Europe study is gratifying to the extent that it is a good witness to the Austrian judicial system as a whole, not a question, but – I am now joining in what I have already said from this point of view –: We have more than 11 000 staff, and the majority of them are doing a great job, not least considering what the staff resources look like in international comparison. Yes, it's right, we'll need more resources in the long run. It is absolutely right what you say, but the more legitimate it is to say that what is now being done is really also internationally tangible. That is the positive thing; but in the long run, and I am absolutely right to you, Mr Steinhauser, I will naturally have to talk about how to optimize the structures on the one hand, but, of course, we must also ensure that the judicial system, where it is simply necessary for its optimal functioning, gets the appropriate personnel resources. No question! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11433	For the second time, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Schrangl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11454	Mr Jarolim! As you have addressed me in your speech, I will now also tell you something: The path of legislation is in the Committee and in this House, and not in any preliminary discussions, and neither the former Minister of Justice nor you have given me concrete figures. Mr. Federal Minister! I believe you have these figures, but you have not presented them to us. But now I'm going to ask her to come to you. Either I get them like this or just a parliamentary request. What I am interested in in this context is: If we had not had the 2013 closure wave, would the district courts have been so burdened that we could have increased to € 25,000? [[Abg. That's the point!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11489	Mr Magnificent came to speak. It's a kilnauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11510	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Perhaps in advance of the explanation, especially for the spectators: The rule of law is the law governing the exercise of jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the courts in civil cases. And a means of regulating these responsibilities is, for example, also the definition of value limits, from whose exceedance no longer the district courts, but the national courts are responsible. Mr Schrangl, by determining the jurisdiction according to the disputed value in the schilling version, there was a 15 percent higher utilization of the national courts. In order to compensate for this, these value limits should be increased. This 13 per cent to 15 per cent higher utilization of national courts is also reflected, for example, in the report of the Committee on Justice, which you hope for. I think we should be here. In order to compensate for this uneven utilization, the adjustment of the value limits to the two was made. Stability Act 2012 adopted. These have been consciously defined in order to better control and control the corresponding development of utilization. It has been found that the first adjustment of the money revaluation has already been taken into account and that the increase in the value limit in 2013 to €15 000 has already borne fruit in so far as Austrian civil courts are already burdened even more. This means, on the one hand, a discharge of the previously overstepped capacities of the national courts, but of course also a strengthening of the regional structures, because the greater number of cases, of course, also increases the experience and expertise, which makes it possible to make professionally sound decisions. Last but not least, the judicial system was occasionally criticised as regards the long duration of the proceedings. The novelle brings optimal utilization of civil courts at all levels. I am very sure that the value-limiting innovation that was made was a step in the right direction to further improve the efficiency and quality of jurisdiction. I also believe that the failure of a further increase is a just as correct step in this direction. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11555	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 298 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:52:10]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11614	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Winter has spoken. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11641	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The request for debate concerns matter fracking. I should like to say, in principle, that the FPÖ's position on this issue is: We are against fracking, and we are also opposed to this proposal. We are against this request because we believe that it is a mogelpa. ckung. If one uses the term “risk for drinking water” one has to say: In each EIA procedure, reference is made to the Water Law Act, and thus a risk of drinking water should in fact already be excluded. My colleague will then be carrying out more detail and more on this subject. What I cannot understand is why the Greens, with their pseudo-political or pseudo-ideological behaviour, have still agreed to this half-hearted request at least in the Committee. Just jump over your ideological shadow, and in this case agree to our request! Why we are against fracking and in what way, there are three points: First of all, due to ecological concerns, because in fracking, quantities of water are mixed with highly toxic chemicals and put into the ground under high pressure, which naturally produces enormous heat, so that the gas is spewed out of the rock, out of which shale rock. However, the contaminated water remains largely in the soil, and unfortunately there are no long-term studies – there can be no such studies – how this chemistry affects people, the environment, and how this chemistry may get into the food chain. There are no studies on this, and that is why it should be rejected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition: The chemical composition is unknown. It's only about known, because America is keeping this secret. They say that it is a means of production and its competitiveness would be disrupted if the exact composition were to be announced. Another point is an economic one. Economically, that is to say, a great benefit should be achieved with as little energy as possible and as little use as possible. But that is simply not the case. We know very well that America wants to go up fracking and spread in all directions, simply because America wants to achieve energy independence in particular from the Saudis, Africa and the Middle East. That would be understandable, but it is simply not an energy form that is sustainable. The third point is very important to us; it is not to be underestimated. Fracking is a US geostrategic chess train so that there can be no agreement between Russia and Europe. To this end, I would like to quote the online platform of the newspaper “Die Welt” in which on 9 October, I would like to quote the online platform of the newspaper “Die Welt”. It was written in June of this year: ‘Only fracking helps Europe against Putin’s gas monopoly. – That’s clear and clear! They ask: What does “The World” have to do with Germany and the USA? – We know that the Merkel administration is the administrative administration of the Obama administration, and that is the connection. It is still undisputed that oil dependence should be rejected, but this fracking is not an energy-politically valuable alternative in the long term. I would like to quote something: A few days ago, the head of the energy giant Total died, failed, died, died – you don't know. In one of his last interviews, he raised the question: Can we live in Europe without Russian natural gas?, answered: No, no, no, There's no reason for that, and there's no reason to pay oil in dollars either. – Some who have spread these thoughts had no life too long. In this sense, I ask you to accept the following request from us: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11725	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Winter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11786	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11807	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Unquestionably, shale gas-fracking is a subject that is partly very emotionally debated, especially when it comes to applying this technology in Austria or near our territory. To do this, you have to say: This technology and its application are very strictly regulated by law in Austria, far more stringent than the EU law in force. Nevertheless, as has been said, it is strongly discussed again and again. Hold on: There has so far been no approved shale gas extraction in this way in Austria, and there are no attempts at the moment to apply this technology, and we do not know that this would have been planned or intended in the future. Because the initial situation or the conditions are completely different from the American conditions outlined by my previous speaker. With us, the shale gas drilling would be at least eight to ten times deeper than that in America at the moment. Therefore, raw material winners currently have little economic interest in performing shale gas fracking in Austria. [[Abg. New builder: Say that you want it!]] In the research sector, however, we have the Montanuniversity of Leoben, which deals intensively with this issue, which is also a leader in mining issues worldwide in many ways and is on the way to implementing an eco-fracking in the field at the moment. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is a very exciting action, which is enforced, in which – and I would like to mention this briefly – in contrast to what my previous speaker said, not chemicals, but natural raw materials are used. That is, as has been said, the moment in which we are born. We don't know what that really means in the field experiment outside. In any case, it is interesting to know that there is also this in Austria. As I said, we have strict laws in the user process, especially as regards water protection. We have a strict law on water law, which is applied here, in order to protect and preserve the groundwater as an elementary value in Austria. We also have a very strict EIA law. Since 2012, when this novelle has been in the EIA process, it is an explicit EIA database that needs to be applied to unconventional oil or natural gas and, also explicitly, to all test or exploration drilling. That is, everything related to fracking must be subject to a strict EIA procedure in Austria. In summary: We have already thanked God very strict safety standards and very strict laws as regards shale gas fracking. There are no current projects or projects that are envisaged. But in order to be safe again – for above all, the protection of people, nature, the environment, water – we have made a request from the ÖVP and the SPÖ, in which we call on the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Environment to examine once again whether it is necessary to use stricter legislation to give absolute security to the people of Austria. On the other hand, we also carried out: Should this be necessary, we could also discuss and implement a temporary ban. At the same time, however, we do not want to deny the Montan University in Leoben the basis for continuing to make attempts in this direction in an environmentally friendly and environmentally compatible manner. In this sense, I would ask you to support our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11850	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Brunner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11871	Madam President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Values Advisors! I'll say it in advance: We did not agree to the request of the government groups in the Committee and will not do so today, for two reasons: First of all, because it's a messy-waschi content, it's a sham. We act as if we were doing something, but certainly we are not doing anything. Secondly, I think it is a strange opportunity for a Parliament to make a request to the Minister or to the government in which we call on the government to tell us whether we as Parliament need action. I think that is evidence of no particular self-confidence. I think we as Parliament are the legislator. That's us. The government is the executive and has to carry out what we decide here. I think that should make us more aware. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] In terms of content, it would be quite clear what to do. I don't think you'll have to check around for a long time. There are possibilities to exclude shale gas, and you can discuss eco-fracking or not. Mr Hoefinger, perhaps you could explain to us what eco-fracking is. Is there no CO2 emissions if this gas is then burned? Come out loud flowers? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] So I don't know what you wanted to do about it. I think the effects of shale gas drilling are well known. I think you can make clear political decisions. What we have in Austria, what has been decided here, is the legal framework for shale gas drilling – EIA has been addressed; but that shale gas drilling must also undergo an environmental impact assessment, such as windwheels, is probably the most natural thing. What's missing is a clear political signal: Has Scheibergas lost something in Austrian climate policy, in Austrian energy policy, yes or no? And just press yourself before that signal. I'll give you the opportunity again today. I think that today is a day before the European Council meeting in which the EU's energy and climate objectives are met. In 2030 it will be decided – with risk technologies emerging in this context, such as shale gas or nuclear energy – that we will come to the next item on the agenda – just one day before the meeting of this Council, it would be an important signal from the Austrian Parliament to say: For us here in Austria, shale gas is excluded in the future. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS as well as the Abg. Ing. Dietrich.]] We want to go a climate-friendly way, and there's nothing wrong with shale gas. There are hundreds of thousands of arguments against shale gas. For me, the first thing is: With all the technology that could still be developed – this is a fossil resource; and all fossil resources that are still in the ground have to remain in the soil for climate protection reasons. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a clear and clear policy stance that we want to draw your attention to a day before the important EU decisions and where we expect our support. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, the Pock and the Rejectors.]] The forthcoming European Council meeting: As has been said, in the next item on the agenda, we will also have the opportunity to discuss the role of Austria a little closer in this context. I would also like to appeal to you, Mr Environment Minister, to the German Chancellor, who will be represented there tomorrow, to the effect that Austria represents a climate-friendly, from a climate-scientific point of view, in order to prepare the EU for the next climate conferences. From a scientific point of view, this would mean: Necessary CO2 savings by 55 percent by 2030, energy efficiency: 45 percent target and increase of renewable energy by 40 percent. Austria has not yet achieved any of these sufficient objectives. On the Commission's proposal too, Austria has, with caution, very, very differentiated, sluggish, if not even counterproductive positions. Our request was not accepted yesterday in the EU's main committee. I'm appealing to you again today: Support It is at least the German position to contribute at least to the position of the EU Commission, namely 40 percent CO2 reduction, 30 percent renewable energy and 30 percent energy efficiency. That's too little, but at least do it! At least get involved in these minimum positions! That would be urgently necessary. And with regard to the developments of the last days and weeks, I am further deeply convinced: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e11980	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Brunner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12057	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12078	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The issue of fracking has been discussed very controversially in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – probably not in the depth, as some Members have repeatedly called for. In principle, there is consensus that the procedure is questionable. However, it has remained a bit unmentioned, which plays a role in the discussion: Slate gas is mined in America at a depth of a few hundred meters – with all negative effects on the environment. There the water, and large amounts of water are necessary, is somehow disposed of and devastates entire areas. In Austria or in Europe, this seems to be quite different, and in Austria, the presence of shale gas at a depth of 5 000 to 6 000 metres would not be economically degradable either; in Germany, it is 1 000 to 4,000 metres deep. There, however, the energy discussion is also held differently. It should also not be mentioned that there is a process developed by us at the Montan University in Leoben, which works with so-called additives in the water, which would be significantly more environmentally friendly. The whole procedure has to be finished, is not yet operational, not applicable for real use. However, I would also like to add that fracking or gas and oil extraction by fracking in Austria is negatively assessed by all parties. We have a very strong environmental impact assessment, thereby legally more handling and a stronger influence on the subject than in other European countries. The aim of the SPÖ and ÖVP's application is to bring in an additional legal barrier in order not to apply fracking at the moment. These concerns regarding environmental impairment have led to this request for a resolution to the Federal Government with a view to further legal limitation of fracking. I believe that this will, at least for a long time, remove the subject from the political and also polemic debate. With regard to the energy situation in Austria, but also in Europe, I would like the Greens not only to be against everything. This may make sense in the topic of fracking – you have to listen – but I would expect more positive access to the topics of necessary pipeline development and further development of hydroelectric power plants. [[Abg. Brunner: We're for something, you're against something!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12118	The next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12139	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I'll just have to say, Unfortunately, after the EU has failed to enforce and implement an EU-wide fracking ban, it is now at national level that we have to decide on it. We've seen that as soon as things become very complex, it's going to be emotional. We noticed this with the previous speakers. I shall now try to deal with understandable aspects of this issue. We've heard fracking isn't good for the ground and for the water. That's true, of course. Thousands of litres of chemicals are added: Mercury, arsenic, benzene and very, very many salts, the fivefold amount of occurrences in seas. We've always heard, it's being pressed in. That's not some water, it's an incredible sum. It is millions of gallons of water that it is here to press into the earth. And the created cracks are then filled with millions of litres of sand, so that you can continue to promote shale gas. So you see there's a lot of things going on. We've heard a lot about the water and the ground. We know that these chemicals are, in part, very harmful to health, carcinogenic and hereditary. What I've missed a little so far is: We have always heard of the environmentally friendly, so-called Green Fracking – that is not possible. Even if we were to ignore the chemicals – we don't have any studies on how these millions of litres of sand and water results in changes in groundwater flows. You must imagine: Of course, this incredible amount of water you pump into it produces something. That means that there is a great deal of consequences to be expected. There is also a study in the direction of earthquakes, because of course this pressure also has consequences. In the United States, in Oklahoma, it was found that in the areas where fracking happens, the earthquakes were not doubled, but were more than 40 times. So you see, there are some things you need to add. That is why “environmental” fracking does not come into question for me. [[In the case of the Stronach team and the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] We have already heard that fracking is, of course, an eerie climate stress, from CO2 emissions, but what we have not thought so far is: How do all these water masses, the sand, the chemicals, get to the drill holes? According to current experiences and calculations, up to 1,500 trucks need to be transported on and off water, sand and chemicals per drilling. So you also have an incredible climate impairment. Another point that the Austrians certainly do not want is the additional land wear. In fact, we have about ten to a hundred times as many drilling as conventional natural gas. This may be less of a problem in the US, because the country of course has more available, but in Europe about 70 000 fracking drilling is needed to get to the shale gas events of our continent. We heard: The comparison with the U.S. still has a little to do with this, because in the U.S., events are 200 to 300 metres deep, but in Austria, between 5,000 and 6,000 metres deep. That means that the bill of about €9 million per hole does not go up either. What has not yet been addressed is the disposal of these water-sand-chemical mixtures. Similar to radioactive waste, there is no concept here. But the most important point, which should actually be at the forefront, is that fracking completely undermines the energy turnaround. The promotion of shale gas opens up an additional potential for fossil resources. The dependence on fossil resources is thus extended and the conversion to renewable energies is thereby torpeded. This does not make sense for Austria either in terms of energy policy or in terms of economics. That means: Let's not press out the last reserves from our Earth, but: Full power ahead of us in the resources that we have much easier, namely renewable energies! A reasonable energy policy is without shale gas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12203	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lettenbichler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12225	Madam President. Estimated Minister for the Environment! High house! We now see in the ongoing debate that there is much agreement on the fact that fracking is not an alternative to the current methods of securing energy supply in Austria. At present, shale gas reduction in Austria is neither an economically meaningful nor an environmentally acceptable option. That's where we meet to a large extent. However, we differ in the way that we do not want from the government side that a general ban will bring technological development to a halt or at least make it difficult. And, to that end, we do not want to be given the chance for the future to continue diversification of energy supply. In this context, I should also like to mention – it has already been mentioned – that Austrian institutions, first and foremost the Leoben Montan University, have been and are extremely successful in the development of funding methods for fossil energy sources. A method was developed in Leoben under the direction of Professor Hofstätter, in which instead of the harmful chemicals already mentioned several times, only natural substances are pumped into the rock. I believe that this pioneering role, ladies and gentlemen, should be further developed. It is necessary to develop ecologically replaceable and, at the same time, manageable processes without technological constraints at the beginning of the research chain, even in order to have a wide range of instruments for diversification of energy supply in the future. Although these technologies may eventually not be used in Austria, a broad research perspective should be sought; in the sense of our scientific and technological location, this would be desirable. Ladies and gentlemen, you also know that the Federal Government, above all our Environment Minister, is committed to stricter regulations at European level, similar to those in Austria. They also know that Austria is on the right track with its energy policy. In this way, we are not only in the process of expanding renewable energy, but also in the future. riding – even though some may go too slowly, as well as me, especially with regard to the expansion of hydropower. In addition, Austria is participating in the expansion of the European energy infrastructure, thus increasing security of supply. Austria is there on a very good path, and I invite you to work with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12276	Mr Pock is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12297	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would perhaps like to address the eco-fracking, which Mr Höfinger mentioned by the ÖVP, in advance. Eco-fracking, bio-fracking, bobo-fracking, you can name it as you want it is not really a achievement if we take significant quantities of corn starch instead of the chemicals. It is located in about 50 football fields per test drill. That is to say, we are dissuading a discussion about chemicals, and we have the next discussion. At least how we deal with our basic nutrients is very worrying. What the opposition is all about – and as far as I understand it now is: It is now not a matter of actual processing in the field of water protection alone, but it is a common political commitment that we do not wish this technology in today's form in any way in Austria. We do not need any further examination, but we need only the courage to take this decision in sixth place. I would like to address two further issues: Of course, it is very much used in environmental protection when one argues why fracking is not a sensible variant. From our point of view, however, it also makes little sense from the economic point of view. Two points are always brought into the field. The first is the success story in the United States. That's where I want to go in detail: As a result of increasing support, the price of oil of the American variety WTI has fallen sharply. At present, a barrel costs about 92.8 dollars. Last summer it was 20 dollars more. With a current price difference between the North Sea variety Brent and WTI of almost 13 dollars, this spread is no longer at as high a level as long. The oil cannot be transported from the Middle West to the ports. The result: Inside the country there is an oversupply that reduces prices, making new investments more profitable, reducing participation and thus reducing the number of projects. In concrete terms, only 3.4 billion dollars were put in stakes in fracking areas last year. In 2012, it was still almost $7 billion, and in 2011 it was even $35 billion. This means a huge decline, including investment. But it's even harder for the fracking industry. A study by S&P Capital IQ concludes that the 80 largest energy companies have been investing even more than they are being washed into the cash registers since 2004 – a minus business. In the past year, therefore, a number of depreciations were due for many companies, caused by the declining energy prices and the disappointing promotion rates, as the financial agency Bloomberg notes. In other words, in the United States, we have not only one issue in terms of investment, but also the rates of support are clearly below the forecasts that are always communicated. Even the International Energy agency, which has taken over many business and state forecasts unverified, has a similar result. There is already a decline in oil production in fracking fields. The boom of shale gas and oil sands will not last over the 2020s, it is also said there. The fact that fracking technology is losing in importance again in ten years is almost undisputed. It is often said that the US is currently able to transport the surplus to LNG, i.e. liquefied gas, by ships to Europe and thus reduce the dependence on Russian natural gas. – That too is more than unlikely. The construction of corresponding liquefaction and port facilities would last for years and would hardly be profitable in view of the foreseeable reduction in the quantity of shale gas. This means that the argument of success in the United States is neither transferable nor really a success story in the United States. It must also be formulated relatively clearly. Last but not least, Voest and the industrial location Austria: It is always argued that the energy costs are too high for us and therefore companies actually migrate. Example Voest, new work in Corpus Christi: The voestalpine wants to invest around €550 million in the new plant in Texas in the coming years. This is a direct reduction plant for the production of iron ore iron. This is a very early stage in the production process, and in fact the gas consumption is very high. In addition to energy costs, however, the low CO2 costs, which the colleague Brunner has already mentioned in other respects, are likely to have played a major role in individual tax reliefs, access to the high seas and the short seaway to rich Brazilian ores. The requirements I have mentioned here cannot be implemented in the same form for an internal country like Austria. Energy, therefore, is not the only site advantage, and here we can take very strong care of and counter-tax policy and do not have to argue exclusively about energy policy. - Thank you. Good day!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12359	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. 3 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12380	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The arguments put forward here mainly against fracking are already well known from the months of discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which we have led to individual requests for opposition, whose treatment has always been postponed. The present motion for a resolution is also a result of this months of discussion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and leads us to a result - if we have already heard this is not wanted by the opposition. But at least the discussion leads to the possibility of temporary ban on fracking, and I assume that there is a relatively broad consensus here that this technology should not be used to a large extent in Austria. [[Abg. Brunner: Then don’t decide such a waschwashi!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The production of shale gas is currently clearly regulated by law in Austria, and in the course of the scheme – which, as Mr Höfinger has already explained, is far more stringent than EU law provides – such a projection is to be subject to a comprehensive assessment and assessment of the environmental impact in accordance with the EIA legislation. At EU level, Austria is in any case committed to ensuring that these current standards and the clear legal framework are also incorporated into European law. In order to increase security of supply, strengthen competitiveness and protect the environment, the clear focus must anyway be on renewable energy efficiency and the development of Europe-wide energy infrastructure, which is the far more sensible way to go; we do so without any doubt. Economically meaningful and environmentally acceptable – that has already been done – is not at present the reduction of shale gas in Austria, also due to the geological situation. In addition, I believe that a large majority of the Austrian population is currently refusing to reduce shale gas by means of high-volume hydrofracking with environmentally dangerous chemicals, which is not least reflected in the fact that at the beginning of the year, in Vorarlberg, over 60,000 people signed a petition against a planned promotion in Baden-Württemberg. But: The present resolution calls on the Federal Government, in particular the Minister of Economic Affairs, to examine the need for further legal changes, i.e., in addition to the existing EIA legislation, and even stricter regulations, in order to protect Austrian drinking water from possible negative effects of high-volume hydrofracking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] As has already been said, we also consider a temporary ban on commercial use of shale gas in Austria to be a common route and therefore request a broad consent to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12433	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12454	Madam President. High house! With regard to the subject matter of the debate, we have repeatedly held a very detailed, comprehensive discussion, last but not least, on 7 July. October, held in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which was actually very agreeable, as far as I remember. Here in the Hohe Haus, the novel to the 2012 Environmental Impact Assessment Act has already been established for the unconventional oil and natural gas promotion policy – you know it very well. In Annex 1(28), all activities are formulated and defined in this context. It's not like we don't have a regulatory stock here. A ban – you know – can only be imposed by the Minister of Economic Affairs within the framework of his responsibility for the mining industry in the Mineral Raw Materials Act. It is also important to me – and this is already true, as clearly stated in the debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, with a vast majority of the opinion – that research in this area should not be restricted, but rather, on the contrary. This has also been clearly stated by representatives of the opposition parties that research should, of course, be carried out in the direction of ecological use in order to improve technology as well. I can also tell you that during my stay in New York, in the context of the UN Climate Summit initiated by Ban Ki-moon, I welcomed a group of non-governmental organisations of the anti-fracking group and that a very intensive exchange of experience took place. I share the concerns about this technology because of and because of the significant environmental impact. The dangers to the environment, the dangers to soil, water and public health are obvious. This exchange of experience with representatives of environmental organisations in a country where fracking actually takes place has, in fact, reinforced and confirmed my concerns. I have therefore also been commissioned to examine, in the interests of the government's motion for a resolution, the extent to which the provisions of the Water Law Act are to be further strengthened or the possibilities to be further expanded. In this sense, I have already fulfilled, or in advance, the request or the content of the motion for a resolution of the government groups. As far as your statements, Mrs Brunner, on the climate objectives and the strategy for climate change in Austria under the European Climate and Energy Strategy are concerned, a detailed debate took place yesterday in the EU's Main Committee in preparation for the European Council, and we have also debated them in a very detailed manner in the Committee on the Environment. I would just like to stress once again that we are of course committed to an ambitious climate and energy strategy in 2030. I am also confident that, within the framework of the European Council, the Federal Chancellor will bring this position accordingly and that it will also succeed in defining an ambitious strategy based on the proposal of President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. Brunner: What position?]] I am equally confident that it will succeed in bringing in our position for an energy transition, for a mobility turnaround in this context. [[Abg. Brunner: What position is this?]] This is precisely what we need: an energy transition towards strengthening renewable energy sources, a mobility shift towards alternative propulsion systems. And let's take a look at: Who is actually standing on the brake when it comes to increasing hydropower when it comes to expanding the mobility turn to the e-mobiles in the urban area, for example in Vienna? It's the greens. It is your group that is constantly on the brake. I'm appealing to you: Leave the fundamental opposition and support the Federal Government as part of the energy transition and as part of the mobility turnaround! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12513	Mr Schmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12534	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Scissor gas fracking in Austria: These techniques, which are right and cheap for America, cannot be adopted by Austria in principle. Austria has environmental laws which must be complied with and implemented in principle. I think if we do this, we're well served. Slate gas extraction requires quantities of water. These are pure water, chemical and sand according to my findings. The yield is the result of the to offset costs and to be regarded with high probability as uneconomically uneconomical. Fracking is relatively expensive compared to America up to ten times more expensive in Austria. The OMC, which has been comprehensively involved in shale gas extraction, is known to have withdrawn from the project and the same applies to the application for authorisation. Therefore, there is currently no application for approval under the EIA law. It is considered to be proven that the production of shale gas with the state of the art results in consequential damage. It is appropriate to address the pollution of groundwater as well as agricultural land. It cannot be accepted that environmental damage caused by fracking is deliberately purchased. We, the Austrian family – including their policies – are called on to protect our water. There is no understanding that the environment in Austria is being watered down in favour of an Americanised EU. Austria has a more stringent legislation for the benefit of the population in numerous positions vis-à-vis the EU, so that the production of shale gas must be prohibited. It should also be ensured that the release of shale gas for study purposes cannot be opened as a back door. As a technician in the civil profession, I therefore support the request of the liberals, which results in a general fracking ban, and seek its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12576	Next, Mr Magistrate. Greatly speaking. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12598	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In Austria – we have heard this many times today – there is no economic-politically meaningful application of fracking, and also environmental-politically we agree that we do not want fracking in the current form. That's why I'm wondering: Why do we want a ban on something that we really do not want in the economy or in politics or elsewhere? [[Abg. Kickl: Be careful!]] I think we're gonna create another law that we can put on the files so we can say: The National Council was diligent, we have decided on a ban which does not interest anyone to put in the drawer! That is why the question arises whether we need it. However, the current proposal goes on. It is tried to strain the bow and say: What means do we need to avoid creating these chemical problems? And since these are currently in the room, we are also talking about a temporary ban on commercial use. I think that is also the right sense and reason why we should agree to this request, because perhaps in a few years it is different, perhaps the Leobens have researched so far that we want to use this technique, and to withdraw a ban is something very difficult. Accordingly, we cannot befriend ourselves with a temporary ban, with a general ban as the opposition demands. I also appeal to the liberal forces of the opposition parties, who are otherwise always opposed to such a flood of law, to stand here also to this liberal attitude and not to forbid everything that is not at all for discussion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12645	Mr Dr. Karlsböck has now spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12666	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about technology – fracking. And there's also been a lot of talk about how we really don't need a law. I would like to come back to the origin because it was not said at all why this is being discussed and why this great excitement exists in Austria. We are not now talking about any region in America or South America, where far and wide there are not human settlements, but about the cultural nation Austria, about the cultural area Austria, about the wine region Austria. As far as I am aware, the only or at least very promising random drilling has not taken place in a steppe or in an uninhabited area of Austria, but in the wine district. It is an insanity, especially in this region, to think about using such techniques at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Russia-Ukraine crisis does not help to accelerate and promote gas transport to Europe. On the contrary: We will face bottlenecks and the like. But this must not lead to a break in the mind to apply these techniques in such a cultural region. To chronology: As it has become known – and that was still very secret – that in the beautiful Poysdorf, in the Weinviertel in Lower Austria, trial drilling for a possible extraction of shale gas by fracking has very quickly become distrust among the population. Although at that time all the parties, from the head of state down to the Council of State, have already guaranteed: There's nothing coming, we're just looking at it once!, there's a popular uprising there. The dimensions of this protest have really been threatening, so that – and that has not been said – the head of state, when he was visiting, has been scrambled out. You have to imagine this: In the core country of the ÖVP, in Lower Austria, in a region where the ÖVP still has 70 percent plus, there has been a popular uprising in this one point! This popular uprising has then led so far that, before the country elections, all the possible assurances of the state, but also the federal policy, have been made that for all times fracking will no longer be used there. But what do we hear from you today, dear friends of the ÖVP?- Oh, my God! – It's really going around here, in Vienna: Let's see! Why do we need a law? We said it wasn't coming! We're supposed to be researching. Research must be allowed. – Of course, researchers must be allowed. The Montan University in Leoben has already developed methods and will certainly be developing more that are significantly more energy efficient than the already existing ones. Nevertheless: This is not about research, it is not about technology, it is not about a resource, it is not about bringing forward industry that needs energy, it is about protecting a cultural landscape. The region around Poysdorf is already suffering from the fact that both the state and the federal policies are around in the development of the motorway. Every day there are several kilometers of congestion in a region in which this was not foreseen ten to 15 years ago. This is an environmental burden. We have heard today how many trucks of water would be needed for fracking. Regardless of the technical effort that needs to be put into the ground and the infrastructure alone, it is already an insanity that in some form is only thought of moving forward fracking. Through gentle tourism, Poysdorf has really become an emerging cultural and also tourism region. It has developed this reputation of a cultural and tourism region for years and decades. It has worked, this concept has gone up today. In the wine-growing area, too, incredible things have happened there. There are several young winegrowers there who achieve record prices with their products, and that is why the approach to doing such methods in this region can lead to some damage. That's why, my friends from the ÖVP, don't get around, but a clear confession! We from FPÖ stand at the federal level, at the national and regional level for a clear no to fracking, especially in the wine district.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12733	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on the ban on shale gas fracking in Austria, annexed to the Committee's report 277 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 44.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. Winter, Schmid, Themessl and other Members on the ban on fracking in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christiane Brunner, Mr Michael Pock, colleagues on the ban on fracking in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[14:45:02]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 587/A(E) by Mr Hannes Weninger, Mr Höfinger, Mr Werner Neubauer, Mr Matthias Köchl, Mr Michael Pock, Mr Ulrike Weigerstorfer, Mr Colleagues on the future without nuclear power – To advance the Europe-wide nuclear power exit! (278 d.a.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 656/A(E) by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on legal action against State aid for nuclear power stations in the context of the competition examination by the EU Commission of the Hankley Point project (279 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12850	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Höfinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12877	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has been three and a half years since the intrusion of a terrible disaster over Fukushima in March 2011. Although the media reports have now become more and more silent and one cannot hear much at the moment, one has to know that a huge stretch of land has become uninhabitable for some time, that many people have suffered immense damage and that millions of tons of radioactive contaminated water have also flowed into the sea. The lasting damage caused by it is not yet estimated. On the European continent, Chernobyl's nuclear disaster from 1986 has been forgotten, and these negative effects are far from over. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria was and is a pioneer in acting against nuclear power in this form. We note again and again that, even if disasters, GAUs or Super-GAUs stimulate a rethinking in the short term, especially in many responsible ones, even in political dimensions, after a short period of time this visible will disappears again and again, as the atomic lobby is very often subjected to again. This is currently the case in the United Kingdom, which has already been mentioned, when it comes to setting up and promoting the Hinkley Point C nuclear milestone. This is the completely wrong way to cope with the future, both from an energy policy point of view and from its support approach. Nuclear power is neither environmentally friendly nor sustainable, and it is also not effective for a broad range of working people. The way for the future – and we are discussing this very often in Austria – can only speak of further expansion of our environmentally-friendly technologies borne by the diverse, renewable and renewable energy sources. It is a mix of sun, wind, water and renewable raw materials, which is available in an excellent way in Austria. Only with this mix will we be able to reduce our dependence on a certain energy supply in the future, to make value added in our country, to secure jobs, to protect the environment and nature and also to operate active climate protection. This is not possible with nuclear power plants. The supposedly environmentally friendly technology shall be exposed as non-environmental at the latest in the event of an accident or from the date when radioactive waste is to be stored between or end-of-life. I would like to thank you very much and also welcome these six-party initiatives, which we have jointly discussed and decided on in the Committee. It has succeeded here to forge alliances in order to be even more vehement and more successful against nuclear power. It is also important to ensure that the European Union is able to play a more active role both in relation to our neighbouring countries and in the European Union. I think we are committed to this, to our children and also to the next generations. I can therefore only ask you to agree to all these requests, and thank you for this constructive cooperation on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12928	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e12950	Madam President. Minister! Chernobyl is forgotten and Fukushima threatens to be forgotten, so consistent anti-CFC policy is more up-to-date than ever. This request is a clear signal not only to the Austrian Federal Government and the European Union, but also to Zig thousands of citizens in this Republic who have been committed to the use of nuclear power in Austria for decades. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. New builder.]] I would like to thank Mr Neubauer, who has come to me and has said that it would be a good idea to adapt the five-party proposal of the previous legislative period, to renew it, to update it, to renegotiate it, to renegotiate it, and to send a signal that all the activists see that the anti-AKW consensus in Austria's domestic policy is not only a sheet of paper but also a living policy. I would like to thank all those who have agreed in many individual discussions to participate in formulations which have made it possible to formulate this five-page, very comprehensive request. I also believe that the actuality, the direction of action of the Federal Government, but also our own actions, can be deduced from this request. I'm coming to the current point: Hankley Point. I have already heard in the last few days that it is questionable whether the Austrian Federal Government will really bring an action, whether all of this is done in a timely and timely manner and whether we can enforce it. – The request is a clear signal from Parliament. The Austrian Federal Government, in a letter to the Commission before the Commission decision, pointed out that it would not agree to a positive decision to grant a subsidy for the Hinkley Point C and threatened a complaint. It is all listed, we are now waiting for the Commission's decision, for the formulation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and then the application is filed by the Republic of Austria through the Federal Chancellery. I appeal, also in the sense of this request, that we not only be here in this House, but also at European and international level, wherever, on the basis of our functions in sister parties and bodies, we have the opportunity to become active beyond national borders in order to understand that the fight against nuclear power plants is to be conducted at European level, but also worldwide. We need support in other national parliaments, in the European Parliament and in many environmental conferences. With today's decision, each of us Members has an obligation to work for a world without nuclear power. Thank you once again for the design of this application and for the broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13007	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13028	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The last legislative period has been very positive on the anti-atomic movement here in Parliament. We have not only managed at that time – and today's decision-making process – to formulate an all-party proposal that has underlined the position of Austria since the referendum on Zwentendorf, but also to send a signal of a position in Europe, where we have clearly expressed what we consider to be an energy form of nuclear power. Unfortunately, the events of the last decades have led tragically to the fact that this is a very dangerous thing. Unfortunately, however, we have the problem that, with the expiry of the legislative period, we need, of course, a new decision in order to be able to continue this path that has been taken by Austria positively and successfully in the future. I am therefore particularly pleased that we have been able to make a request this time, too, in which all the parties stand in content and which gives us the opportunity to send a signal from this House not only to the really committed anti-atomic organizations in the future, but also to keep in mind the position of Austria in terms of nuclear energy in Europe as well. This requires the whole power of this House. We have also achieved this with today's decision-making. When it comes to agreeing on this issue, we must actually agree on the details, because it cannot be possible in the future that we are only against the existing nuclear power plants, we are calling for rehabilitation and security measures, but, of course, we also have to oppose new attempts to revive nuclear power. Nor can it be that we tolerate equality of nuclear power and alternative energies here, and not at all that we are allowing a priority to be given to nuclear power over alternative energies, as has unfortunately happened in the example of Hankley Point. I therefore also expect, not least because of this request, which is to be decided today, that our Federal Government will take an active part in this matter, to take these points to heart, which are in fact contained in this decision, so that in the next few weeks, it may give Parliament information on the state of the case filed against Hankley Point. I think the people in Austria are expecting this. In addition, one has to ask in the future what the origin of all of this is at all. The origin of what is currently facing massive challenges in nuclear policy is the EURATOM Treaty. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this House should also consider this, because the EURATOM Treaty was the basis for the decision for Hankley Point, even if Mr Glavischnig shakes his head. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: It's about time!]] The decision-making base is based on the EURATOM Treaty. As a House, we really have to think about whether we want to be a member of this EURATOM Treaty in the future, or whether we do not consider leaving EURATOM at least. I would like to stress that this does not have to be tantamount to leaving the European Union. Federal Minister! I hope you will support us.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13065	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported to speak. 2 minutes of speaking time before I interrupt the session to deal with the urgent question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13086	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Given the short time to Hankley Point three thoughts: What the European Commission has done in this interregnum phase, namely to positively assess this aid decision, to wink through it, is an unprecedented scandal! This is not just about environmental and nuclear issues, but it is about putting out of place the entire competition in the electricity sector de facto. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If one considers that feed-in tariffs should apply for 35 years! We are discussing with the renewable energy companies about feed-in tariffs of 13 years, which are still subject to inflation adjustment. I can only say: This is, according to the bank packages, a real nuclear rescue package in a dimension that represents the plundering of entire economies! If the school does, it means that electricity customers across Europe will de facto subsidise the expansion of nuclear energy in the future. This must be prevented with all powers. It is unfortunate that the Tories in the British House of Commons have come to such an extent that this has actually become a common concern with the French and Chinese plant farmers. But that the old Commission has yet to decide on this is an unprecedented scandal! I expect and hope that the action will be properly prepared, brought in in on a timely basis, and with all the legal punctuality that it now needs, it will be up-to-date in order to prevent the aid. It can't be a school. We are not just talking about a nuclear power station in the UK, but we are talking about twelve to fourteen nuclear power plants. In the Czech Republic, electricity customers are financing new nuclear power stations, perhaps also in Poland. We really need all the legal weapons to tip this aid scheme. The end of any market economy is the fact that a conservative party has such an effect at all. And that the old Commission has completely hidden this – so if we don't put our back legs there, I don't know what's happening. I hope that's what happened right now until 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13138	Thank you many times, it has been precisely assumed that we can start dealing with the urgent question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. [[15:00:35]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Gerald Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, to the Federal Minister for Health on ‘Real structural reforms and complete transparency for a single health system’ (2773/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13168	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2773/J. I welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Oberhauser. As the question has now been raised by all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13634	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Loacker is the first questioner to justify the request, according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13656	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciative by-laws and by-laws of the Court of Justice of the European Watch the gallery and in front of the screens! This urgent request, which we have tabled today, is the first one in your very short term of office, Mrs. Federal Minister, and yet we think it necessary to strengthen you here now, after your two-month term of office, and that with an admittedly large number of questions: on the one hand, because in the matter of the materials here – the word "care time" law, medical training – many important points are still very open or rather vaguely formulated and some have not been discussed at all; and on the other hand, because we believe that the subject of health reform has to be given much more space. Some of the key elements of the health reform are moving forward very slowly, and we NEOS do not have the impression that it is being handled and that something is going on. In the preparation of this urgent question, we have also examined the opinions and interviews you, Mrs Federal Minister, have made in recent weeks. In particular, with regard to the health reform projects, we have repeatedly encountered relativising and hesitant statements when it came to concrete implementation steps. Whether we're talking about ELGA, whether we're talking about the new telephone and web-based initial advice, about federal uniform quality standards or about the new forms of primary supply, it's always in one position or another: Please wait. Please don't misunderstand me. Of course, it's good to look forward to things. You have to think about it, you have to think through what you do, but if this attitude – and so it seems to us – turns into a mikado tactic where you are afraid to lose because you are moving – that is not wrong, because many health ministers who have moved have lost afterwards – then it will be problematic. We believe that movement would be the right attribute to health reform. We believe that this movement needs it, and we must not screw it back at the pace of the necessary structural reforms. Austria is cutting below average in the health and care sectors in particular. If you have had the opportunity to listen to the Alpbach health talks Olivia Wigzell – her sign the head of the department in the Swedish Ministry of Health – then you know what time frame the Sweden will give itself if they implement a major reform. Sweden takes five to seven years. You will need five to seven years in Austria until you have once talked to all stakeholders until you have come into the conversation with the federal states and the chambers and the cash registers and all those who are totally blocked from the outset are ready to talk at all. Now you could ask yourself: Why is it even the NEOS that the health reform has found so little rainfall in day-to-day politics and in practice? – It irritates us because we want this reform to succeed. That's what's surprised As a member of the government, perhaps when an opposition politician says: We want your reform to succeed. We firmly believe that it is also one of the tasks of opposition parties to drive forward government projects that are good and in the sense of the community. A structural reform in the health sector in Austria is such a large project that needs every support to be carried on. So we should climb to the gas pedal together, move on and change something for the better. Where it leads when structural reforms are tossed and delayed if structural maladies are not eliminated, this can be seen in a very painful example: Greece, for example. There, the drug wholesalers resort to supplying the hospitals only if they are paid cash, only the large hospitals will be supplied, and about three million people are no longer insured in social security. This seems to be far away now, and it may seem far-reaching to you too, but developments like these need to be countered early enough to prevent us from even getting into danger that this situation is at hand, by preparing for the essential issues – ladies and gentlemen of the majority groups – which are often referred to as the best health system in the world. If in these days, for example, the rehabilitation of the health insurance companies is praised in a word, then you have to look at how it came about. The fact that, over the last 20 years, the number of cash doctors has increased marginally, while the number of electoral doctors has tripled, this shows that – and I claim that for financial reasons – expenditure has been shifted into the private sector because they were no longer affordable in the public sector. If a five-year cost-free drug cost has been achieved, yes, then the costs have not exploded, but it must not be considered that this remains without consequence for the availability of pharmaceutical innovations in Austria. For the challenges we face – that the population is ageing, that chronic diseases are on the rise and that we have to deal with these challenges in times of close budgets – more and more countries are finding a similar solution, namely the expansion of the established area, in the trade language: Primary Health Care. Austria has already recognized this development. If you read the documentation on health reform, you can also understand that there is a correct explanation. In practice, however, nothing has changed yet. Austria is still one of the few red spots on the European map, in society not only from Ireland, Iceland and Luxembourg, but also from Hungary, Greece and Turkey, which the Netherlands institute for health services research, in short NIVEL, shows as countries with little primary supply structures. In Austria, the provision of services is moving more and more into the hospital area, especially at the end of the day, on the weekend, at night, and this problem has been known for years. This calls upon medical staff in hospitals, which overpowers the hospitals organisationally, but it also overshadows the overall system financially, because these services could be provided much cheaper in the established area. Nevertheless, little has changed. Federal Minister Hundstorfer always says yes, Mr deputies, that you have to make a constitutional reform and a federalism reform! – Well, then we need federalism reform. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He's already behind you!]] That can be good, and then we have to get these on track. We also need to implement a new service fee and improve the coordination of the established area with the hospital area. This is not easy because the national leaders would like to continue to decide autonomously where to build their hospitals, because the church tower policy in Austria is particularly deeply anchored. It won't be easy! A real reform is never easy, but to let it be the same from the outset, I think it is negligent. Where is the expansion of the new primary supply forms? – I still believe that it is at the very beginning. Apart from a concept – and this has not become better due to the intensive representation of the doctor’s chamber, I say – we still don’t see anything. To do this, you will only need the legal framework, Mrs. Federal Minister, if you are interviewed. We would like to know what the framework conditions are, until we can expect a decision here in Parliament and why, according to your statements, we must be satisfied for the time being, if by the end of 2016, 1 percent of the population gets the health reform. It is still stated in the target tax agreement: 1 percent of the population in each federal state; now it says: by the end of 2016, a total of 1 percent of the population. We need more than two years to reach 1% of the population. It could be concluded that you are taking 200 years to implement the health reform. I wish you were so old – I personally do not wish that. In the context of the health reform, other changes, which are generally welcome, are planned, such as the implementation of a telephone and web-based initial guidance service, so that patients can find a reliable contact person in any situation that helps to find themselves in a complex health system, and which may also help to relieve the hospital hospitals when a redirection of the patients can take place on alternative channels. With regard to the question of when one can go into operation, you said in Ö1 interview, Mrs Oberhauser, if you are optimistic, you will be so far in three pilot states by the end of next year. If you're experiencing such an energetic woman, rhetorically a fireworks – and then you're so little ambitious about what you want to do?- Oh, my God! I really have trouble with it, and I wonder how you put these two egos into one in your personality. [[Abg. Stroll: That's a word picture joke!]] You can't do that yourself to give yourself so much time. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You don't have to worry too much about the women in the government! They're doing it!]] – Yes, I wish that, Mrs. Klubobfrau! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Well, really!]] I wish that the Federal Minister implements her goals – but with more ambition and a shorter time horizon. She has my full support when it comes to what's on the papers. It is urgent because it seems to me that nothing is happening, Mr Katzian, because there are dates set in the year – and these are uncertain – and we set ourselves the goal of reaching 1 percent of the population at some point. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, no! 2016!]] Keywords ELGA: open questions, shifts, ambiguities. The doctor's chamber complains that she doesn't know exactly what the state of things is. The pharmacists complain that they don't know what the state of things is. Further keyword: federal uniform, transparent quality standards and quality measurement that can be understood for the population. – Even though implementation does not appear likely by the end of 2016, the federal government has agreed with the countries since 2001 that it needs a global Austrian quality system. So there are years and decades, and this makes us critically question whether this health reform can produce the effect that we want and which it should achieve when it is properly put on track. The interested public – and that is, of course, priority: Citizens – must be taken on a trip so that we do not experience any communicative mistakes that have just happened in other areas where good concepts – breast cancer screening – have also been underlying. A good reform does not help if one does not take the citizens on the journey. And then I wonder, Where is the primary supply? Have the new concepts arrived with the citizens? Who knows what's going on today? How many know how our health system will move and move in the next few years? Mr Pock will address this even more closely. Just as the political groups in Parliament are involved in the health reform, if they are not government groups, is a question that fills books. Let's work together. We work quickly, always with a careful view of the whole! The latter has often not been the case in recent weeks if significant health policy choices should be made. ==References== In October, a novel of the Medical Working Time Act will be passed on to the Committee and will be debated in plenary tomorrow. Since 2003, everyone has known that something has to happen at the time of medical work – and now that from January 2015 on, there are threats of punishment from the EU side, the law will be pushed around again in the last minute. We have known it since 2003, so we have been left for years, and then we have left out the review, and also a review, a committee opinion, as we have requested, has been rejected by the votes of the government groups. This wouldn't have delayed the procedure for a day. There are opinions from various institutions on this Medical Working Time Act, which have not been forwarded to parliamentarians. We know that there were some, because the Chamber of Labour Vienna gave us its opinion, dated June of this year. The project therefore concerns the doctors working in our hospitals, and we believe that a change in working time should not be made without public involvement and not without full information from the parliamentary groups. The long transitional periods – here again until 2021 – are well worth discussing. I repeat: Since 2003 – since then we know that we have to do something – so far – now we are introducing this with transitional periods up to 2021 –: 18 years to do something, that's not a speed! And all of this, we're isolated from a salary reform. So we regulate the working hours of the doctors and, of course, we know that the doctors deserve less if they do less overtime. The result will be that this opt-out solution, which is part of the law, will be used by many doctors because they have to use it easily in income. They must opt out of this working time scheme so that they can keep their salary level. The second law, which is in place here in the house for decision-making and is essential to the health sector, is the one that re-regulates the training of doctors and doctors. This is what I have already said to you in the Committee, and we think it is very positive. A reform is urgently needed in the field of medical training, but a very essential point is not yet on the table, namely the clarification of the financing of teaching practice. This has once again been pushed over to the main association, which should now deal with this with the doctor’s chamber – and we will then see what comes out and hope that the two sides will agree. If you make a law that does not clarify the financing, we do not think you have a very, very essential point. Both laws, in turn, have great effects on the hospital area as a whole, and the hospital area in turn is a vessel that communicates with the established area. What happens in the health sector again and again, we see here: We screw a little, screw a little there, and the big whole, the health care overall, we don't look at it. It's always just a little bit around, a little left, a little right. We would like to see an overall approach that not only covers the health sector, but also brings health and care under the roof. I have already mentioned federalism. So away from this wealth of individual measures, towards an overall concept and more transparency! We hope that, with your answers, we will also receive transparency, Mrs Federal Minister, which is also part of the event, and that is why we could start today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13754	To answer the question, Mrs Bundesminister für Gesundheit Dr. Oberhauser spoke. Mrs Bundesminister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e13776	Madam President. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the NEOS for giving me the opportunity, after seven weeks' term of office, not only to tour d’Horizon through the last ten years of health policy, but also for the next four years of my planned policy, about three ministries, about social security. I thank you for your trust, and I hope I can justify that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Mr Loacker, I am very pleased with your detailed interest in the Austrian health system, particularly the detail of the questions and, above all, the question which is more or less divided into the question of competence, i.e. the division of competence between ministries, but also within the framework of federalism. You, Mr Loacker, come from Vorarlberg, and we know that the further you move from Vienna to the west, the higher the demands are to a centralist system, which is mostly controlled from Vienna. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Honey.]] We know we probably have in you a champion against federalism. I warmly welcome you at the Austrian reform stage and I am very pleased that together we must convince the Vorarlbergers, but probably also the Upper Austrians – and probably the Viennans too – that: the federalism is dissolved and a centralistically controlled system should take place. So welcome, we'll try that together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have divided the individual questions in your urgent request Thank God to various topics so that I can try to orient myself to the headings at least in my introductory statement before I go to the answer of your 82 questions. They talk about health reform and the question of the design of health reform. We know that the Austrians are very satisfied with this health system. Nevertheless, we also know that there is a need for follow-up, especially in the question of how many years of life someone spends in health. That's where we know that we in Austria are in the back with all good care. That means it's safe time to turn on certain screws. That is why, in 2012 and 2013, the issue of the partnership target taxation contract was currently concluded by the Federal Government, countries and social security funds. The health reform is something that has for the first time ensured the crossing of borders between the established and the hospital and also social security. A number of years of detailed target contracts have been concluded, which one can see, that is, wherever one knows where to go. They are now asking me how we continue in the health system. One of the points you criticize is the question of the “Best Point of Service”. This means in which a package PHC, that is, Primary Health Care, in the second expression it is the family doctor and his team, which you also criticize, with the question of designation slightly different from the question of design. On the question of design, we know very well where to go, namely to a multi-professional, joint team. They also criticise the fact that this should be different in the regions. – I can only answer that: After God, thank you, it should be so, because if I introduce myself to a primary care centre – whatever you want to call it – in Götzis and one in Vienna, they will probably look different, and thank God probably the regional legislators plus social security plus chambers will also have the opportunity to structure it so that it is suitable for the respective area, and not to set up a centre that looks the same as that which would be suitable for Vienna. We have undertaken to improve the daily clinic. I think that's a big step. We were all either sick once or know people who were sick and needed hospitals, so we know that today it is different than before that some people simply want to go home a lot earlier. They want to be operated and then possibly go home right away. This means that there is clearly a need and a clear potential for improvement. This is also something that we consider to be a priority in the health reform concept, i.e. something that is also addressed. In your request, you address the question of quality assurance and ask why, unlike Germany, we do not manage to equalise in the field of hospital comparability. I don't know if you have been on the website www.spitalskompass.at before. This is a homepage operated by the Ministry of Health and the GÖG. In principle, you will find almost exactly what you find in the German pages: the hospitals, the services and the case numbers. That means we're... That's already so far. It's true, you just have to make it public even more among people, but we've already fixed a lot. We have A-IQI running, a project that is far more than anything you compare to individual operations, but a project that is running, within which hospitals supply data and then look at external peer reviewers and discuss with them whether these data they have are verifiable or not. That's already running. The first A-IQI report has already been published and we are working on the second. This will probably be published in November after the Federal Objective Control Commission. A second topic you address is ELGA. You know that at ELGA, the only one who can do this is not the League. We depend on the system partners – these are the countries, these are social security schemes and, last but not least, other health organizations, namely hospitals, doctors and pharmacies. You know that I formulated ELGA on two premises: I would have liked to secure data security and usability, and if that was so, then, I think, we will also move forward. They say that the unclear statement, when we move on, leads to an insecurity of the patients. Much more uncertainty among patients we had in the course of the campaign, which it gave, whether at ELGA Data security is given or not. They then ask a lot about the issue of cash recovery, the subject of health insurance and the merger of the health insurance companies. I can only tell you that the previous government has brought the local health phone into a precarious situation that the last governments have tried to compensate again. That is, we are now in a relatively stable situation as regards the health insurance companies, namely the local health telephone. We have shot around €1.2 billion in federal funds, but the health insurance companies have done a very large amount of self-sufficiency, with almost 3 billion exceeding the proposed and the proposed budget of 1.7 billion cost reductions by 76 percent. That means there was also a good start. You've been talking to the doctor's office. Rudi Hundstorfer is also present today. That's not my place. Nevertheless, I believe you are concerned about the working hours of the doctors, that you are obviously also in good contact with the doctors, because we find a lot of the questions you have asked me here today in detail in the request protocols that the doctor's chamber presents to us on the various topics, such as for example to ELGA. I tell you, however, that you can rely on chambers and trade unions when it comes to how doctors are honoured. There is already a degree in Styria, and doctors are also planned in several other federal states. It is a question of how to deal with the reduction of working time and the need to base a different pay schedule and other working hours on the basis of a very low basic content that doctors have. In other words, you can be confident that we, and above all the trade unions, are negotiating with the additional representatives there good wages accounts. So that I do not exceed the 20 minutes of speaking time in the abundance of questions, I can now do my utmost to answer your questions. Question 1: By the end of 2016, the objectives and measures agreed in the Federal Objective Control Treaty are to be implemented – these are in particular multi-professional and interdis- primary primary supply structures; the promotion of day-to-day services; the further development of competence profiles for professional groups; an increased quality of results; Health promotion strategy, strengthening of health competence; Implementation of ELGA and implementation of a telephone and web-based initial contact and advice service – the strengthening of rural supply, the further development of health and healthcare professions as well as other non-medical health professions and a ban on smoking in the gastronomy. On question 2: The results of the monitoring show us that we are very good on the road, both in terms of financial objectives and in terms of agreed measures. Question 3: The title is titled “The team around the family doctor – concept for multi-professional and interdisciplinary primary care in Austria”. The concept deals comprehensively with the topic of primary care and all the occupational groups involved, and not only with the family doctor. Question 4: The key points are determined by the concept and will be integrated into the relevant legislative drafts by the end of the year. Question 5: Talks have already been held with many stakeholders who do not, as you say, last five years, but we are already at the conclusion. The stakeholders were the Austrian Medical Chamber, the Economic Chamber, the Austrian Health and Medical Association and other representatives of health professions at the highest level. There are also ongoing discussions with countries and social security. Questions 6, 7 and 8: No, the reorganisation of the competences of the individual health professions will take place in the relevant professional rights. On the question 9: It is expected that this implementation can be realized. In parallel with the legal measures, appropriate approaches are already being taken and coordinated at country level. Question 10: It cannot be Termined as, in addition to the new legal conditions, the health professionals also need to be willing to organize themselves in primary supply structures. The further implementation steps towards a comprehensive implementation of these new forms of supply are the subject of further federal and national target management agreements from 2017. On the question 11: This is the subject of current work at country level in accordance with the national target taxation agreements, and pilot projects cannot yet be listed. Question 12: This is the subject of the work and negotiations on the legal implementation of the primary supply law. On the question 13: As part of the conception, patient representatives and self-help groups are involved. We will, of course, also inform the public at the time. Question 14: The definition of the “Best Point of Service” can only take place at regional level, taking into account regional circumstances and therefore only at regional level, and will require a multiannual period. Question 15: Yes. Questions 16 and 17: Yes. On the question 18: From the current point of view, there is no reason to worry that the financial margin could no longer be sufficient from 2016. The financial compensation is and remains the central possibility of a reallocation of financial resources in that Republic. The position of the expenditure for the “free gears” you have requested is taken into account in the Health Objective Control Act in the expenditure damping path. In question 19, I would like to refer you to the impact assessment in relation to the government template. Question 20: No, no, no, Nevertheless, the cash registers are currently on a good path. The Cash Rehabilitation Fund was undoubtedly an important instrument of cash recovery. However, the cash registers have also contributed much to the cost reduction. Cost reductions could be achieved, particularly in the field of contractual doctors, institutes, contract and election physiotherapists, medicines, remedies and aids and transport costs. In addition, I would like to say to your question of the transfer to the private sector of the electorate: You already know that if you visit an election doctor, you can apply for a cash refund of 80 percent of the rate. The tariffs may be too low for you, but people can call this back, and it is not a recovery from the completely private sector. On question 21: The implementation of aspects of health reform is always a central point of negotiation in every financial compensation, and this will undoubtedly be the case in 2016. On the question 22: No statement can be made about this at the moment. On the question 23: The European Commission's approval of the programme and therefore the release of EU funding is expected by the end of 2014. Question 24: A comprehensive quality measurement requires many building blocks and is a long-term project. We must not insure people with incomplete information. With the A-IQI we have already established a system of results quality measurement in the hospital area and published a report on the introduction phase. The Sys- tem is based on the result measurement of disease images and compares treatment, processes and structures. Improvements will be achieved with the annual peer reviews and a new A-IQI report will be presented at the end of 2014. On question 25: At the beginning of October, the Federal Objective Control Commission decided to establish an Austrian-wide uniform protocol-based expert system as a basis for TEWEB and to establish further framework conditions for the operation and use of this expert system. On the question 26: In accordance with the requirements and the applicable procurement requirements, the procurement procedure shall be expected to take about half a year for a period of time. On the question 27: As part of the piloting, initial experience in the operation is to be collected and evaluated, and a non-respect of federal-wide test operation would therefore be associated with scarcely projectable risks and potentially avoidable costs. On the question 28: ELGA is not only responsible for the federal government, but above all the ELGA system partners, the Federal Government, countries and social security, and the cooperation of other health organisations is needed. The core element, the ELGA authorisation system, is currently being tested internally. The extensive tests with the large Austrian hospital associations will begin in December and go far into 2015. The current schedule provides that the first hospitals will start with ELGA at the end of 2015, and all publicly funded hospitals will follow until mid-2016. On questions 29 and 30: In line with my current state of information, there is no reason to question the timetable for further rollout. On question 31: The usability of ELGA is a major concern to me as a doctor, as I have often said. For the integration of ELGA into the workplace software of doctors and pharmacies, recommendations are made for a user-friendly implementation, which are prepared together with representatives of the Austrian Medical and Pharmacovigilance Chamber, the ordination assistants, representatives of hospital associations and software manufacturers. On questions 32 and 33: The performance documentation KAL in its recently developed version is in implementation. These documents are used for ELGA. Further standards such as laboratory or X-ray are also set for ELGA. The terminology has been provided on the terminology server established by the Federal Ministry of Health since the beginning of 2014. This means that electronic processing and updating of federal terminology and classification systems is not only for ELGA, but also for other eHealth systems. In this case, the Court of First Instance held that the Court In Vienna and Styria, the full coded quantities are already guaranteed, and in the other carriers it is worked on. On questions 33 and 34: The interface for the registration and retrieval of findings for the hospital software is already available and is tested in the laboratory environment. As a result, further tests are carried out with the ELGA areas of the hospital associations. The connection of the doctor software to ELGA will be based on the releases of the e-card infrastructure. The development of these interfaces is at work. They will be made available during 2015. On question 36: No, no, no, The regulation of personalised access within the hospital will be ensured by the internal authorisation control. The sole identification of the hospital or department without personalisation is insufficient. On the question 37: In principle, decentralised storage is planned for data security reasons. For reasons of technical performance, we have opted for a central storage for e-medication. On the question 38: Yes, if there is a corresponding order from the interested party and the compliance with further requirements referred to in Section 10 of the ELGA Regulation. Question 39: All access to ELGA health data is logged in ELGA without exception. On question 40: E-card and ID card. Question 41: On all available data, but only with a read permission. On questions 42 to 44: In accordance with the resolution of the National Council, Parliament's ongoing information on the results of the target taxation should be provided for health. I will, of course, comply with this request, and as further measures will be completed in the near future and results will be available, there will certainly be an increased exchange with Parliament. Questions 45 to 48: By means of a corresponding early involvement of patient representatives, including self-help groups in conception, through the creation of attractive offers and appropriate information work on these results. For example, we have kept this in the process of developing the primary supply concept. The implementation at country level and the involvement of relevant representatives is the case of the partners at country level. Question 49: The criticism of the Fiscal Council is difficult to understand in this form. As the monitoring of the financial target management clearly shows, the financial targets set will be achieved or even lowered. Questions 50 and 51: The department's responsibilities are determined by the respective Federal Ministry Act and its annex, which define precisely the respective competences of the individual ministries for this legislative period. On question 52: Before that, no political agreement with the federal states was possible. On question 53: Yes, since the negotiating partners were only prepared by the time pressure built up by the EU to take away even greater counter-claims, namely from the indefinite opt-out and from the acquisition of the costs on the part of the federal government. On question 54: There were no secret negotiations. On the contrary, all the political leaders – the countries, the competent ministries –, all the social partners, the private and religious hospitals and the medical chambers were involved in these negotiations. At the time, I myself was still involved in these negotiations as a representative of the ÖGB on a huge round table. So it was all, just no secret negotiations. On question 55: There is actually no transitional period. The law sees as a principle the 48-hour week as early as 1st. January 2015 before. For those hospitals who do not succeed in complying with this principle, there are the possibilities to benefit from exceptions, but these are limited. On question 56: This question must be addressed to the health care providers. In question 57: Business agreements deal with other topics than opt-out. However, an operating agreement is essential for the individual consent of the doctors and therefore very important, as it protects the individual doctor from in principle having to sign something on its own without the agreement of the works council to represent the staff. Questions 58 to 60: These questions should also be addressed to health care providers. On questions 61 to 63: There are no figures available to me regarding graduates of medical studies and therefore no numbers of departures abroad, since it is the area of competence of the BMWFW and, on the other hand, the difference between the number of graduates and the number of young gymnasticians cannot be precisely linked to the departure abroad. As part of the EU monitoring report on the medical rate, the BMWFW undertakes an annual survey of medical students in the last study year. In addition, a limited follow-up survey of graduates was planned for 2014 and the results are currently being prepared at the BMWFW. On questions 64 to 66: The answer to these questions can be found in the project report submitted by the BMG to the National Council, which addresses the Austrian positioning in detail. On question 67: There was a total cost reduction of about €3 billion. The cost reduction is divided into the following: Contract doctors € 480 million, institutes € 121 million, contract and election physiotherapists € 28 million, medicines € 2.1 billion, cures € 219 million. On question 68: The question of ordinations: Organizations, whether individual or group practice, in 2000: 6 941 and in 2013: 6 994. Group practices have only existed since 2005. On questions 69 to 71: Yes. Statistics show that the share of public expenditure on the health system has increased from 2004 to 2012, which is the last available figures, even slightly, from 73.9% – share of public expenditure in 2004 – to 75 percent in 2012. As a source: Statistics Austria, OECD concept. On question 72: In the sub-division 24, you will find in the detailed budget 3 the necessary approaches to how you can read the documents from the Budget Committee. On the question 73: Around €2.4 billion of pure property. See breakdown by cash register. Please refer to the links on the homepage of the main association of the Austrian social security funds. On the question 74: Upper Austria: Bad Hall – Establishment of a rehabilitation centre for psychiatric and burn-out rehabilitation, commissioning in 2015. Lower Austria: Waidhofen aan der Ybbs – total number of beds constant, but conversion of existing recovery beds into the indication areas metabolism and neurology/multiple sclerosis. This project is being implemented. Burgenland: Extension of Bad Tatzmannsdorf, total number of beds constant, but extension of oncological rehabilitation. This project is being implemented. In question 75: All projects planned by the BVA in this sense are in line with the Austrian rehabilitation plan. On the question 76: In concrete terms 343 beds are to be built in four supply zones. Funding of €33 million per year in full development is jointly financed by social insurance and countries, with countries taking over a lump sum of €8.5 million per year. In the coming months, the four supply zones will be coordinated between social security and the developing and contracting countries. In question 77: Within the framework of the new governance system, target control health, this issue could now be quickly resolved between target management partners. On the question 78: The next draft of the Medical Law will include an amendment to the ASVG, which provides for the financing of teaching practice on the establishment, for example, of a fund by the main association, in which, however, hospitals, medical chambers, federal government and countries can also participate. In this sense, a financing model has already been established in Vorarlberg. Until the adoption of the medical education system, the stakeholders will also have clarified the financing. On the question 79: The funding volume for teaching practices depends on the number of doctors to be trained, on the amount of the salary to be paid, regulated by the collective contract concluded by the ÖÄK between the Curias. Question No 80: The issue of funding must be resolved between the Federal Government, the Länder, the Social Security and the Chambers of Doctors. On questions 81 and 82: A reform of health and nursing professions is currently being intensively worked. After these works have been completed, an appropriate legislative proposal will be presented. I hope I have answered the questions in a comprehensive way. We have decided not to say: It's not in my area! . Very many of the questions are not in my area. You see how well this federal government works together, that we even work together to answer your questions in such a way that you get the answers here and I don't just say: It's not in my area!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14523	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is the first to speak. I'll set the clock to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14550	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens in the galleries and at home in front of the screens! On behalf of my colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger, I welcome the class 6d of the gymnasium from the 22nd century. District, Theodor Kramer-Straße. - Where is she? - There. We're glad you're here! [[General condolences.]] Politics is the place – at least we define NEOS – where we make up how we live together. This is the task of politics, and we politicians are being paid to advance this work here. We are negotiating the question here: How do we organise the health sector in the future? This is a particularly important task because everyone and every one of us is affected and because we know, of course, that we are getting older – thank God, that's him. Happy – and that medically more and more is possible. The question involved is: How do we finance that? And we're in danger of coming to a two-class medicine. Our thesis is: We will be able to achieve this great objective, which we hope to pursue together, Mrs Federal Minister, namely, ensuring best quality care for all, only if we optimise certain weaknesses in the system, if we are to put off structural stupidities, I almost say. In order to bring this to a technical level, I would like to quote the Court of Auditors here, because – and your reply shows this; thank you for the many answers, Mrs Minister; I see that you are already well-informed, that is pleasing – in the Federal Government, I have the courage to have a completely determined renewal in the health system that is missing. And this goes hand in hand with the question of federalism, and I cannot see any change there. I would like to encourage you – that is the key question for the future – to: If we want to ensure health for all at a high level, we need decisive renewal, on the basis of federalism. I've read you, Mrs. Minister, go for a walk with your dog every day in the morning. And if you take courage every day, Mrs Minister, for renewal, for fundamental renewal, then you will succeed, but that costs courage. The Federal Court of Auditors provides you with the line of argument. You will find in the 2013 Federal Accounts on the question of whether we can finance the health system in the future, the following statement: "There is an urgent need for action in the area of the Austrian health system. This applies in particular to the complex and/or fragmented constitutional distribution of competence and intrusive financing structure, the fragmented organisational structure in the field of health care, insufficient human resources and service law and structural problems in the social security sector.’ So translated means: The landscape in the health field is completely fragmented, and federalism is a dog. And I'm a federalist, I'm a Vorarlberger, that's what we have in breast milk, you can't do anything else, but federalism in Austria means organized responsibilitylessness. That's the problem! We see this, of course, and especially in the health sector. If we produce a particularly blatant statistics, then this has to do with federalism, namely the hospital beds. Number of beds per 1 000 inhabitants in Austria: 7.6. The European average is 4.5. Now some will say: Let us be glad that we have so many hospital beds, that is of quality!, but I don't think so again. That testifies to federalism! If we take the leading drivers of European health systems in terms of care and patient satisfaction – these are the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark – then we see they have only half of hospital beds. However, they have made much greater progress or are much further ahead in the matter of low-slip care and also in the question of how the established area is organized. I know you have done a lot of things about this, Mrs Minister, but we are not really going to get in the way, because, of course, federalism is also taking account of us. The Landeskaiser builds monuments in the form of hospitals without considering the costs and without considering the question: Is that really the right thing to do in the sense of the common good? At the same time, low-end care is neglected in the settled area. Her great opportunity, Mrs. Minister, will come next year at the financial compensation – he will be negotiating next year, 2015. Therefore, tell yourself each morning during your walk with the dog: Financial compensation – my chance! And that is why I ask each Minister, because this is about the distribution of competence. That's the turning and fishing point! One thing must not happen to you anymore: You sent the Minister of Finance last time, Willi Molterer, I remember he went in like Popeye, he had an upper arm like Popeye, and after 15 minutes he came out, and the financial settlement negotiations were done. Creadbleich he got out of this negotiating room. The nine federal states have removed their pants from the Republic. And this is the problem of these two parties, SPÖ and ÖVP – I hope the Greens do not come in this area too – because they can no longer imagine Austria differently! You lack the imagination and therefore also the courage that we can organize federalism differently, namely responsibly, and I would like to encourage you to do so. Another federalism is possible, look across the border to Switzerland, where it will live. Good for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14648	Mr Spindelberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14669	Mr Strolz, I believe that the Federal Minister on federalism is the wrong contact person, but I am now trying to explain my point of view, as I see your question. In this urgent request, you talk about lack of courage, that certain problems are not addressed, and want to put everything completely on the head. Because when I read through your individual questions, I realize clearly what you want: a system that has grown for years and decades, a health and social system that we all can be really proud of, so that we will be envied worldwide, from today to tomorrow, so that no stone remains on the other side. In this process I say: Get away from this project, because we all know that health is the most important good of man. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Stroll.]] [[Abg. Strolz: That's my speech! That's my paper!]] With our structures, which can be found here in Austria, we do not have the best, but I say, at least one of the best health systems in the world. And with us, people are more than satisfied with the range of services available, as well as with the quality that is offered. [[Abg. Stroll: But the increase of the electoral doctors is worrying!]] But also – and here I give you absolutely right – if we have one of the best health systems, we achieve the most efficient – and there is a total of €35 billion, throughout the health and care sector. But now I do not understand how to stand here and criticise the Federal Minister and her predecessor, who are going to bring more efficiency into the system. [[Abg. Stroll: Encouragement! Strengthen back!]] Because our projects, which we have also decided here, are heading in the direction of managing the 5 percent increase rate and more in the future. But this is certainly not the way you imagine it, because you are promoting massive reductions in performance and you are promoting in your programme – I have already accused you – that in the future there will only be a basic provision on the part of the health insurance companies, and all those who increasingly use the health system should then get deeply into their own pocket in the future. [[Abg. Stroll: At the spas!]] We will be able to prevent this from happening as a SPÖ, I tell you quite clearly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then: We are going a completely different way to make the tried-and-tested system, which really envys us many countries, fit for the future challenges. Federal Minister Stöger – I have to quote him – has not only rehabilitated the cash registers in recent years, but has also brought the health reform to the stage, which is now to be fulfilled with life. It was not easy, we all know, to get federal government, countries and social security funds at a table and to develop a common construction, whether it is about the framework health goals, about the child health dialogue, about ELGA or about primary care. That certainly wasn't easy. Now, Mr Loacker, to accuse the Federal Minister that she is too little ambitious, that all goes too sluggish, is not right. I think she's a politician – and that's what she's shown us in recent years – who's alive with both legs, she's a real politician. We know that we need to address the matter in a solution-oriented way, and to do so, we need all those involved in health care at a table. [[Abg. Stroll: But also courage!]] This is important because I believe that we can only implement something that will only go a little further if we get to know the views of all those involved in health care. This has also been the decisive thing in the past. But just as you call for everything to be totally reversed, that can never work. What we want in contrast to you is not the demolition of the existing good system – I am really proud of this – but a tour – we need a paradigm change, from the disease orientation to the health orientation. This means that the future structures and medical and medical care – and that has not been mentioned by Mr Loacker – have to address the needs of the population, the patients, the insured. [[Abg. Stroll: Lowered area very important!]] In other words, we need a high-quality health system in the future. This is due to the fact that we also have to improve medical care and medical care in rural areas. The model in your request – we need health centres, and they must be the same in Vorarlberg as in Burgenland – is condemned from the outset to failure, because then we cannot take any account of regional needs at all. With all the differences of opinion between us both, we certainly agree: that we need to get under control in the future the 5 percent and more increase rates, as I said earlier, but not through reductions in performance, but through more efficiency. And this can only be achieved if we have improved coordination of all the partners, all health care players in the future, because double prescriptions, multi-examinations must belong to the past – that is, I believe, all consciously. It is also important – as the Minister said in her reply to the question – that multi-professional offers are to be supplemented by new networked structures, but this also includes changed opening hours of doctors and pharmacies. That's the hour's commandment! And for all these new structures, we also need highly trained staff. In this respect, the course has long been set. We decided on training for medical assistants here last year. Health and nursing training is now on the agenda. Tomorrow we will decide on the new training for the doctors, up to the working time of the doctors in the hospitals, which, of course, should also lead to an improvement, because I do not want to be operated by a doctor who is already in service for 70 hours. That is, we always have one thing in mind: improved structures for the population and an increase in the attractiveness of health professions. And that's why I'm intrusive, too. Let us not always talk about the solidarity-funded social security system, our health system based on self-management badly. We have a good system, and this will continue to grow in the future. [[Abg. Strolz: Court of Auditors!]] And I think that we all here are called upon to take the appropriate steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14811	Mr Rasinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14833	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! I don't know what I've done all my life, that I have to endure today. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I've been dealing with the NEOS election programme and I've thought that for at least a year a electoral program will hold, but it's practically no longer existent today. I've been preparing for it and I've been thinking: All right, at least they're going to drum their election slogans, but nothing! There was the talk of a cash register system, cost-neutral data management, one separates the precautionary care into private and public – I always thought man is one –, one creates a central organization. Now I hear again, it's federalism. Hospital instruction may only come through the specialist or the rescue; so woe if a patient comes himself and comes together in front of the porter! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Guys, let's get it to the point: What you're driving here is health-political spirit racing, it's nebula grenades! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am 20 years old in this House and have never experienced such a urgent request; I would like to leave the word “necessary” there. This is a medium-sized set, which has been supplied here, a collection of common places. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] You're quoting from anything, but the line's missing. So if you say, Okay, your program doesn't last more than ten months, what's the new programme of NEOS, what's going on? I don't know, I'm probably only mediocre, but I imagine I've at least tried to keep a line for 30 years in health care. The NEOS want to be close to the human being, therefore the question: What moves a person in health care? I can tell you, it's very easy: If you're sick, you're quick to want competent help. You want someone to listen to you, and you don't want the doctor – or anyone who works with you – to be stupid. By the way, that is the same world wide. This is also the same in Vorarlberg as in Vienna. But it should move us very well that life expectancy in the 20th century. ==References====External links== There is a single obstacle to health policy: the Danube Channel. I didn't know the Danube Channel was at risk for health. That is to say, there are factors in health policy that should be considered very well. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] It should also move us a little that life expectancy in cities is lower than in the country, despite other medical density. For example, it should also move us that depression, anxiety disorders and schizophrenia are more common in cities. This is applied health policy. What is the answer of health policy? We should let that go a little bit through the head. The first is once: don't get sick at all, so prevention. What I read from the OECD – which can be put to bed with you immediately – is pathetic! If a study says that the healthy years in Austria are worse than in Romania and Bulgaria, then I would like to lie down and cry, because this is the result of the question. If you ask a Viennese in the ordination: How are you?, he always tells you: Bad! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Otherwise he would not come into the ordination!]] This has already begun with “Mr. Karl”, and it continues today. For example, if they ask a Vorarlberger: How are you?, then you come to a completely different result. If you ask one Greek where the health care is really down, then you also come to another result, even if you ask a Romanian. Believe me, there are patients from Romania coming to me who say: Please, do anything! There's nothing with us! If the OECD says that it is enough to consult patients about whether people are happy, then that's okay, but that's really not a question of care. We need to see this clearly. The The second question is: What's expensive in health care? – The most expensive form of care is a hospital care. But it is not said that fewer beds are a great supply. There is a very nice study that says that fewer beds are not so optimal at all. That is, the ideal number of beds is, I think, lower than those in Austria, but probably higher than those in Holland. And if Mr Strolz, the new health expert – now he has gone out at all – who otherwise always struggles with Duracell activity, now tells me we need the Dutch or Belgian system, then I would like to tell him: I really don't want to be sick in Holland, because the Austrian hospital system is much better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] I have a problem in principle. Austrian health care, with all the political differences we have, is one of the world's best. I have always said: one to three, we agree on: one to five. I don't know when I'm sick where I'm going. I want to have emergencies only in Austria, because we have at least emergency helicopters. The "total" Finnish system does not even have an emergency helicopter. Where is the honourable Member Strolz, who promotes the Dutch system in this way? He's still not here. – Did you know that you can't go free to the specialist, just to the house doctor? I'm a great house doctor, I'd say, but only a house doctor would be a little too little for me. [[Rejoicing]] This is not the best point of service. But did you know that Holland has a single accident centre at the highest level for 10 million people? I'll tell you what that means: If you collide in Holland or a tractor over you, I wish you that this happens to you in Groningen, not elsewhere. – In Vienna we have only three or four with the highest level. Please don't compare apples to pears! And I'll tell you something: Minister Seehofer has already said that after the reform is before the reform. Essentially in health policy, time is spent for the patient and ability. And we really must try to reduce factors that rob time, such as bureaucracy or security medicine. I believe that Austrian health care has once again deserved a bit of praise. If you don’t even manage to mention the word “doctrine” in 82 questions, but only mention negatively and say, unfortunately, it’s just the “team around the family doctor” that shows me that you didn’t understand Vorarlberg. In Vorarlberg, the domestic doctors and the precautionary medicine were pioneers. It really hurts me that I have to tell you, as a small Viennese, who lived in the same street as Mr Strolz, that Vorarlberg is a pioneer country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14924	Without interfering in the debate, Dr. Rasinger, I am of course delighted with this praise for Vorarlberg. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mrs Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e14958	Mr President. Minister! Federal Minister! It is now a bit difficult to really address this urgent request, because it is a request that is all-embracing somewhere. There are health issues, there are social issues and there are issues in the field of science. Mr Strolz also suggested an administrative reform, a federalism reform, to the Minister for Finance. It's kind of a "crew and beet" question. I'm going to try to bring in a little bit of a thread for myself, but I have to say honestly now, it's difficult. The Federal Minister has been in office for a few weeks now. In other words, what is available at health facilities is not really responsible for it. One can say, of course, that she was present as a Member before, yes, that's true, but in truth she is now the building site coordinator and has taken over from her predecessor. I'm starting with the health reform, because it's always around here. My previous speaker, Mr Rasinger, said that after the reform is before the reform. Mrs. Federal Minister, you said in a radio interview a week ago, you expect that in 2016 1 percent of the population will feel something of the health reform. I do not entirely blame you for this now, but it does not sound very ambitious, because if it continues at this rate, we need another 100 years before the health reform is implemented. I don't think that can't be the right way either. But this may also be due to the fact that there is really no great reform, just as people have expected, a real structural reform, where, for example, financial flows are bundled. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been rejected by God. There, one has to say that the health policy of recent years has been a bit bluffy. Mr Loacker, even if you are looking in disbelief, but Mrs Oberhauser has only been in office for a few weeks, and she is not responsible for this alone. As has been said, it is restrictive: She was, of course, a Member of Parliament. Or also ELGA. Of course, ELGA is a construction site. ELGA has been postponed. We liberals have always rejected that. I'm also in favour of it, it's something I'd reject today. The fact is, it has decided by the majority of this House, a very large majority, one must also say. Our warnings that the data security is not given have been confirmed. This is also the reason why ELGA had to be postponed by one year. We will see if it can enter into force in 2016 at all, because this is not yet certain. That too was a punch that was delivered here, but that was also under another Minister of Health. Or the SPÖ election campaign project: the free gears. It has been decided here, but the funding is still not available. There have now been rounds of negotiations, but from a final result, from a financing one is far, far away. This is not the fault of the current Minister of Health, it was also a populist announcement of her predecessor, which he somehow tried to implement. At the time, however, he did not manage to regulate the financing here before the decision was taken. That is why this construction site has also remained for us. Or: the breast cancer screening program. Moreover, this was not introduced by the Federal Minister Oberhauser, but also by her predecessor. I admit that has been repaired; I also said it in committee. We only recently had a committee meeting where we could have discussed all these issues. And we've got a big health debate in here tomorrow. As I said, we have already discussed a lot of things in committee. There are things we still criticize in this breast cancer screening program, which, as has already been admitted, has been repaired. This has been done, as has been said, but not by the Federal Minister Oberhauser. She herself has also criticized it, long before the repair, she has said that the starting difficulties are enormous. She said that in her capacity as a Member of Parliament at the time and has now repeated her as a minister. So it's hard to keep this from her. To the lack of doctors. – The lack of doctors is certainly an important issue. Mrs Bundesminister, you said that you also answered all the questions to other departments. That is true, with the exception of a single: You don't know how many medical graduates there are. I believe that this is already an essential issue, especially in the future, especially in the light of the fact that tomorrow we will decide on the new Medical Training Act, which will aim to keep more young physicians in the country and to stop the deportation to Germany. In this context, of course, the number would have been interesting, and it is not quite understandable that you do not know how many graduates we have about. The fact is: We don't make up enough either. You know that we did not agree to this draft law or matter in committee. We will not agree with him here tomorrow either, because we do not believe that it is efficient enough, and above all because the funding of teaching practice is not given. I do not want to presuppose the discussion of tomorrow, but you may be able to get a little more knowledge and perhaps give us the figures tomorrow. The only issue of which Mrs Oberhauser was really concerned, because it fell into her aegis, would have been the case of Ebola. That could have made you a subject that might have been an interesting topic, perhaps not quite as technical as your urgent request. I felt that people turn off the TV at home, because they don't understand anything, because it's just going to be thrown around with any terms. I'm sorry. There is no doubt that we could have put a proper urgent question to the Minister for Health, but they could also ask what she is responsible for. For example, you have asked questions about the health insurance companies. There is, of course, a problem of competence, but a part is now in the social field and a part is in the health field. And you yourself write on some questions: In the Committee was... So you know for yourself that you have asked questions that don't belong here. What's not quite clear to me: We have not only the health debate tomorrow, we also have the social debate tomorrow. And you are asking a question that could actually presuppose these debates, but only half of it, because we do not even have the legislative instruments to decide here. It is actually a half-debate, a deplorable debate that does not go into the depths where you are trying to get something out, and I personally did not understand your intention, what you really want to know with this urgent request. So that's not quite clear to me personally. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would like to say now, because this is really my concern: I believe that if we already have the Mrs Health Ministers here, we should also talk about the problem of Ebola. I'm so sorry you didn't address this. The Federal Minister was very present in the media, because it is also a subject that moves people, that is, far more moving than the question of the benefits of Best Point of Service patients. These are things people can't start with. They want a good supply that wants the supply to be efficient and correct. I would also like to add a supplement to Mr Rasinger's comments: In Austria, every patient can come to a specialist within two hours, no matter what illness he has. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: That's right!]] And there is no other country in the world! That's something you should hold up! I have to tell you that with all the criticism that you can practice in individual health care. And there are many things that we constantly criticize, but overall the trend and direction of our health care are not bad. That's what we should be proud of together, I'd say. But in some areas we also need to improve it, which is absolutely right. But now it's Ebola. – Mrs Federal Minister, I was almost surprised that you did not say anything about it today. You announced it for tomorrow. It might have made this debate a little more interesting. I think there's a lot wrong with Ebola. What irritates us a little – and I hope you will tell us exactly tomorrow – was also the meeting of the EU Health Ministers, which was partly very critical. For example, a British expert is saying that fever measurements on the target airports are just a messy method to calm people down, and actually do nothing at all. These are just proposed measures to ensure a sense of security. The “time” is reported by the statement of an expert group around Kamran Khan, who says that this only gives a sense of security, but is actually marginal. It would be safer to control the source of the epidemic. That is to say, one would have to block airports in the three countries concerned. That would be in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. That would interest me – maybe you could prepare this a little for tomorrow –: Is there any EU effort to get in touch with the countries concerned, whether there is perhaps the possibility of starting off the disease at their source, so to speak, that people are already being checked there and not only at the destination after they have already been on the plane. I think that would be something that would certainly be interesting. – So much for this urgent request. I have more to say honestly, not because it is complicated. Thank you for your comments, Mrs Bundesminister, thank you for your exact answers. Perhaps tomorrow we can still learn how many graduates there are in medical studies each year.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15010	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15032	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I also had a little difficulty with this request, which asks so many different questions and at the same time also raises a lot of complexity, which is naturally available in the health system. What I have now noticed is that the Federal Minister should take meditative walks with her dog to realize that federalism is a dog. - Okay. So it's very multilayered. I would therefore like to return once again to what is in principle very important to me at this health debate and also at the reform debate. I think we have a central issue, namely: Should we remain in the solidarity principle and in solidarity funding, i.e. in the best possible health care for all, or do we go more and more towards economics and want to organize the health system according to market economic criteria? I also believe that this is actually at the heart of the health reform: There are good approaches, we have good concepts, we know about what the patients need, but all these concepts – as long as I am present – are always stuck when it came to solving the financing issue. We were never quite clear: Should we stick to solidarity and, for example, finance overall contracts, or should we go more towards quotaing, rationalization, privatisation? . We have experienced the last thing we have experienced at the primary supply centres, where it was concerned, the first proposal, financing through budgets and lump sum: Ration to get away and to get a form of funding that has not yet been clear. That is why the primary supply concepts are on, and that is why it has not yet been implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From my point of view, the health reform must not become a mogel package for savings programmes. I have nothing against saving, and I think we can also Talk about saving. But saving should not take place hidden. I now mention a few examples – this has just happened to me in the circle of my relatives –: What do we still have, and what does patients in the health system really burden? – Overcrowded hospital ambulances. If you need an MRI – I have hardly been able to grasp it – you have two months to wait to get an MRI on cash costs, even if it is a really difficult case, which should be resolved very quickly and well and where it can be dangerous if it is not cleared without delay. What's this patient doing? – He takes 300 € into his hand and visits a private institute, where he gets an investigation date within two days. We have now received statistics from the Lower Austrian District Hospital for Psychotherapy and have seen that hundreds of psychotherapy patients who should be in single psychotherapy are sent to group psychotherapy for reasons of savings. That's a professional thing about next door! You could discuss this for two hours in a professional way, but every expert, every specialist, will tell you that this is simple and simple one. It is accused of lack of personnel in the hospitals. Doctors as well as nurses are scratching at the edge of the burn-out. We have new quotas in the field of physiotherapy. We have a huge turn-on to the electoral doctors, which I do not find irrelevant despite reimbursement of costs. What does that mean? – The fact that those who can direct it are financially strong enough, who are socially competent, organize themselves the best health care and take those who cannot or are particularly ill, what is offered to them, including very long waiting times. Saving should not come to the patient, saving should not happen in such a way that we do not agree on how to actually be saved if it is absolutely necessary. Before we start saving the patient, I also think there is a lot to be done to advance the necessary structural reforms. For me too, it is not understandable why the expansion of day clinics and of primary supply centres is not going any faster. We know that these are the key elements of structural reform in relation to the expensive hospital hospitals, where so many unnecessary health services are offered, where doctors and doctors are extremely overwhelmed to deal with this anger to patients at all. These are the core elements, and they are not going that much further now. I too was afraid that by 2016 only 1 per cent of the population will be provided in the new primary supply centres. We already had the federalism debate, as well as the unification of the health insurance companies. We are not so much concerned with the potential for saving, but with the right of performance that everyone gets the same benefits and that it does not depend on where you live, in Upper Austria or in Salzburg. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I personally believe that a good health reform or even a reform that deeply affects people can only be done well if you communicate transparently about what you are talking about. This means that the population, the insured community, should be much more involved in the important health policy decisions, including through a fundamental democratization of the insurance system. I believe that we should talk about social elections and we should try to involve citizens more and more and in this way overall To ensure that we can say very proudly in ten years' time: We have the best health system in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15113	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15134	Ladies and gentlemen, this is like the health reform. [[the speaker raises the speaker's voice]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I believe that the first step towards a consistent and hopefully good health reform has been taken. We have a doctor as a Minister of Health. I would like to congratulate once again on this and express my joy at it. I believe that this is a very important step which will make it easier for us to discuss many things in the future and then make these things easier for us to put into the troubles of the level, which makes these things easier for us to realize. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] We know that the real chunks and the real difficulties will only come to us in the future. What we are now experiencing, the demographic issues, the structural questions, the European questions, are only prefaces of most likely extremely unpleasant and very difficult to solve scenarios related to demographics, nationalities, EU et cetera. But I don't want to lose myself in detail now, which would lead too far. I think it is very important in health reforms to address first those who have to bear these responsibility. These are all staff, all health care players. These people must be treated with appreciation, otherwise any health reform must automatically fail. It's no different. If we don't appreciate the people who are active and active in the health system, we don't appreciate the patients either, and that goes through. Yes, we still have a very good health system. The surface of what matters to the patient, what the patient feels, what patients experience in the hospitals is still good, but almost everyone is concerned with: What will be? What's up to us? What is our real problem in ten years? This means that under this still good surface, fears that are varied and have a truly multifactorial history of development. This has a lot to do with the financing of the systems, which has a lot to do with some of the problems that have already been addressed today, with the diversity of our systems, which are rightly praised by many, but which, on the other hand, also creates a lot of problems. Federalism, the various cash registers, this pseudo-competitive situation, federal membership, the birthplace, the place of work et cetera, et cetera, all these things that actually discriminate against one another and make it difficult for us to have a uniform access to good health care will in future have to employ us even more clearly and intensively, otherwise we will be able to carry this good health system that we still have and which we are proud of, if not into the future. From my point of view, it is very important that we bring together these dozens of systems that we have gradually. Today, it was said that NEOS is trying to change the health system from today to tomorrow in the direction of a single system. I do not see that, however, is also a friend of a single system to be designed in the future, because I see this as the only way to really have fair, fair access for all Austrians in the long term. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This diverse cash register system, which we now have, results from the Bismarck’s time, as we know, introduced around 1870. At that time quite different demographic conditions were given, which cannot be compared with today. As great as these systems were and still are, they will be so bad in some time. In other words, we have to deal with the real central issues of restructuring, restructuring and the evolution of the system. This will not be left to us, it will be one of the main tasks of Mrs Minister in the next few years. Today, the quality and patient satisfaction in the health system was also addressed, which is good. Also the quality is good, we are lacking only the measurement indicators and the comparable values that we could filter out of the system and which have already been carried out in a very significant way by the Ministry of Health. In 2011, more than 50 Austrian hospitals were compared; a very valid and well-made study carried out by the GOG on behalf of the Minister of Health at the time, both in methodology and in results. However, what happened to this study is a typical Austrian fate: She has been rubbed and has been in some sort of drawer in the Ministry of Health since then. There are thousands of data sets with thousands of information about more than 50 Austrian hospitals in this study. I would ask the Minister to finally make this data freely available. The study was presented in 2011 by then Minister Stöger in high summer and then again ad acta. The reasons for that? – I leave you the interpretation, I suspect, because the public hospitals have not cut off so much. But there is a potential of knowledge in it, of input, of really many data from which one can read where one of the dogs is buried in the health system. That is why I would like to ask the Minister once again: Release the data! I think this will be very helpful to all of us. Another point that was addressed was the t-web, this telephone hotline, where the patients can find out if they have a pain or maybe some trouble, you don't know what you have when you hurt something in your body. I think it's superfluous and a "plant" because when the patient goes online, he looks at "Dr. Google” after, this is much cheaper, more meaningful and you get more information. I don't think it's a good development to say this on the part of social security companies that it's so great and that it'll help us to do more efficient medicine. – I don’t think that, I think, the opposite will be the case, because there will be delays, irritations and an inflow that will only be quite increased to the already overcrowded ambulances. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Tag ELGA. – From my point of view, a crash project that will not take many obstacles and has not taken a lot of obstacles. You just need to look at England. The English have now set up a very similar project ad acta – it has cost over 1 billion pounds, nearly 1.5 billion euros – and it has re-started the whole. From my point of view, it would have been wiser to wait, because further developments in information technology, especially in the health sector, are in progress; there will be much, much more possible in the future than one can still dream of. Apple, for example, is at the front. No one needs to be afraid that this will end up in a health-monitoring monster story. Not at all! I think that's gonna be in the patient's mind. I myself can report from practice: A patient who was found via a mobile phone location survived because of the one who worked very fast over a chip; otherwise, he would have died. So: In medical chips and in information technology, which are much more advanced than ELGA can offer, there is survival in it. We should consider this and be open to these developments. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Federalism was also addressed by Mr Loacker. I am in part of his opinion, I believe that we should live and have federalism – we all want it – but I also believe that, as Mr Strolz said, we should look across the borders in Switzerland and be more oriented at the cantönligeist – which I do not mean now, but positive. This also includes the fact that federal states have tax authorities. If that were the case, for example, that a federal state like Lower Austria would have this tax authority, there would never be such crazy developments as hospitalizations in Baden and Mödling ten kilometers apart. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] They are completely useless from my point of view, do not make health economics any more difficult for the patient to choose. He has two hospitals where he can go, doesn't really know where he belongs and is sent between these two institutions. That actually happens every day. Others put that on their flags and think that's so great. [[Abg. You're Polish!]] Rehabilitation of health insurance funds has also been mentioned. I think we're sitting there with a fairy tale. Before the summer it was said that the cash registers had been renovated on their own initiative, today the “standard” was the big headline that was used for this purpose for €1.2 billion of taxpayers’ money. We know from these data that the charging systems, as they are now and how they are still working, will no longer work in the long term. Payment systems have the problem of wage-dependent contribution financing. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider something. We need to go more into tax financing and more into general basic structures. Last point. We need to take greater care of the forms of medical care. I think it is necessary to liberalize the market. It may and should be feasible for doctors to put doctors in place to establish GesmbHs and that doctors can also build centres in the country where they are free to design them. Otherwise we will experience conditions like 15 years ago in Saxony. Saxony was completely free of doctors after the turn. Saxony paid every doctor who went there in 1999 100 000 € for a five-year contract because no one was there anymore. They then have to understand that one has to pursue another policy, because otherwise the system will go down. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15213	Next word: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15234	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! At the beginning, I would like to replicate the comments made by Mr Spindelberger. I can't see him now; he's obviously gone out. [[Abg. Spindelberger: No!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - Oh, no, he's sitting there, all the better; thank you. We NEOS have said two basic things today. First: The health reform is a step in the right direction, but second, we have said it goes far too slowly. [[Abg. Rädler: Second?]] Secondly, we have said that the basic solution to the problem is to end organized irrationality and to establish real federalism. [[Abg. Wheeler: First, second?- Oh, my God!]] How did you answer? – You answered with untruths. They have turned out here and simply put out false claims. You know that's not true, I don't need to repeat it. What you are talking about is that you are spreading to citizens the fear of necessary reforms that this country and also our health system urgently need. But you called it a grown system yourself. A grown system – this is obviously the death-beat argument in this country that nothing can change at all. Maybe you better understand your argumentation when you know where you come from: You come from this system, you come from the chamber and you yourself worked at the local health insurance fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Spindelberger.]] I have always wondered what chamber officials are capable of managing social security schemes. But please, your argument is understandable against this background. It's not about patients, it's about your own grain that you'd lose in a real reform. That's why you're doing it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would also like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mr Rasinger. I have really tried seriously to hear contentious arguments, but I have found nothing except cynicism. [[Abg. Schopf: proposals!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amon and Mr Eßl.]] Of course, this is also very funny, but you should already ask yourself what your self-understanding as a politician and MP is: Do you want to give out words here that actually fit better for a cabaret stage, or do you take your work as a Member seriously? [[Abg. Prince: You didn't understand the speech!]] You should ask this question! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What I understood from Mr Rasinger was that we have to keep a line. We have to keep the line! What you're saying is that we just have to keep the course and do nothing in this country. This is – according to your self-understanding – the task of politics. And that's too little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] If this course is continued, we will go directly to the wall. It must be clear to everyone. Why? – Because the Austrian state already has a debt ratio of 87 percent. We know that much is hidden and that is only half the truth. 87 percent and Hypo Alpe-Adria, that can't go on. Keeping line, Mr Rasinger, is the wrong answer! But if you don't believe us, maybe you can believe it to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors and other experts beat in the same notch. The Court of Auditors, in its opinion of 13 June 1995, adopted a March 2013 points out that the problems that inhibit this health reform are quite clearly the following: the fragmentation of competences, namely that they remain unchanged, that expenditure, tasks and financing responsibility continue to fall apart and that no joint financing stop is reached. It all sounds a bit technical – let me now try to translate it: Each Austrian/Austrian has to look in his own budget at the fact that the tasks of budgetary management are covered by revenue from one's own job and that they are carefully kept in the same budget, which is to look at expenditure in the same budget. How is the Austrian health system established? – One has the task of managing the budget, but the neighbor on the left says where the money is to come from, and the neighbor on the right says how it is to be spent. It can't work like this. This goes through the whole Austrian system. As a final remark: One must, especially as regards federalism – I don’t really want to put the word “federalism” into the mouth, because we don’t have real federalism – if one means a responsibilities federalism, a real federalism, that also concerns it. Yes, this health reform is a step in the right direction. She's better than nothing, but she's still passing at the heart of the thing. You finally have to assign responsibility. Should it be the countries or should it be the Federation?, that is ultimately not crucial, but there must be clearly attributed responsibility. Building on private contracts is better than nothing, but it does not solve the problem in the long term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15384	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15406	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hable, I have actually felt that today's debate is very good, I have felt today's discussion is also very material, so I am very sorry that you are talking about "organized responsibility". I think you can be different. It can be thought that structural reforms are needed. I think – and this has clearly been said in almost all the speeches today – that it is necessary to reform the structures, too, but “organised responsibility” in the health system in Austria I firmly reject! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to explain why, Mr Hable and also colleagues from NEOS at all. It has been mentioned a few times today that there is one of the best health systems in Austria, and I would also like to explain why: If you're thinking that we've recorded 98 percent of all people in the system, you can actually say that we're world champions with that. We have a system that ensures that all people, no matter where they live, can have a health care. I think that's important and right – and no organized responsibility. We have a system in which people are also insured – and this is also a very important social benefit – and we have, and this is very important to us on the sides of social democracy – which is also addressed to you, Mrs Mückstein, a solidary funding in the health system. That's what we want in the future. We don't want health to be private. We want health to be co-financed in the future, because in our health policy – and I think that also with Minister of Health Oberhauser this will certainly be continued – the patient who places the focus on the patient. I found such a beautiful quote: “Planting together in the sense of the patients...” – This must be health policy: with the doctors, with the countries, with the federal government, with the health insurance institutions and in the sense of the patients. [[As a result of the vote on the request for an early vote, the Committee adopted a resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions ……]] That is why we have also launched the health reform, Mr Strolz. [[Abg. Strolz: The Court of Auditors is not satisfied with this!]] – I know that, but we have sent the health reform on the way, and you also refer to the fact in your request that you see it quite positively on the one hand, but on the other hand immediately complain that the Federal Minister of the Interior does not drive forward the structural reform. I would like to remind you once again, with all appreciation to the colleagues of the NEOS: Mrs. Oberhauser has been in office for 52 days – I believe that is right now – and even if she is working day and night and while she is walking with the dog still thinking about health policy in Austria, it is not possible to implement everything that is necessary during this short period of time. Not even Mrs. Sabine Oberhauser can do this, Mr. Strolz. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have looked at some of the criticisms of your urgent request and I just want to address a few. They have written as a criticism that it is only a concept to establish the new form of supply in the established area, and that it has not long been put out of dispute that all want it. I see this completely differently. For the first time, I think there is also a vote between hospitals and established areas with the objective control, which is also part of the health reform. This will benefit patients a hundred percent, and this is being sent on the way. You just have to give him a little time. And how, Mr Strolz, is it to be done otherwise than bringing all the partners to a table, as the Federal Minister Stöger did? This has been sent on the journey in 2014, and now you just have to give it a little time. - That's a point. They also know that the Article 15a agreement – which I am convinced of – has also begun to intervene in the structures and to change the structures a little. A resolution of federalism certainly not, but that one looks at the structures and looks where it can best be located, it has certainly also been sent on the way with this health reform. They also complain – and this has already been mentioned by the Federal Minister today – that the Best Points of Service should have different best points of service depending on the regional situation. I would also like to say, Mr Strolz and Mr Loacker: I'm very happy about that. I think it's responsible policy to look at: What do you need in the region? It can't be that you say centralistically, everywhere you need the same thing. It is also part of this target control that you talk to the local partners, where the best points are set up. I believe that it is also right that this structural reform should be given a little time. And I have to ask a question: You write – and you criticize it – that there is no principle decision where these Best Points of Service are offered. In your demand catalogue, however, you write that there should be an involvement of citizens in the reorientation of the system. So: All citizens should be involved, but the partners responsible should not be involved and given the appropriate time?- Oh, my God! – This is a contradiction for me. We can discuss once again how you really meant that. So I don't get too long. I would have written together what the partnership target management system actually means, namely that one has really looked at objectives and action catalogues, that one has considered strategic objectives together, operational measures, of course also monitoring, which is so important – if one sends a new system on the journey, one must also control it. And this too has been addressed, there is: All the central documents are published on the website of the Federal Ministry of Health, where you can always inform yourself as a citizen, as a citizen, but also as a service provider and service provider and know exactly where the system reform is. I am convinced that with Federal Minister Oberhauser we will bring this health reform to a good end. I'm really convinced of that! Our goal is to maintain a solidary, inclusive health system in the future. But I ask everyone to leave a little time for the reform and also for the Minister. This is also important in the policy, where you always need answers, if no questions have yet been asked. In this sense, I hope that we will continue to work together on a good health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15462	The next item is the speech by Mr Univ.-Prof. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15484	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request has at least one good thing: It shows in its inhomogeneity and disparity that health policy is really a multidimensional field that affects many disciplines, and that it is almost impossible to fulfill the desire expressed here, namely after a reform of a cast and a merge of all strands. So that's an unfulfilled wish. However, the urgent request involves many weaknesses which are not at all present in the Austrian health system in this density. It is – I agree with many previous speakers – one of the best in the world, in many areas: We have excellent medical research. Our medical universities provide research results that are internationally highly respected and are conceived throughout the world. This top-level research is also reflected in a top-level treatment – and this is something special in Austria – for every person. An homeless person is also entitled to it and can expect to be treated empty artis. This is really unique in Austria. The threatening scarcity that is always painted on the wall, I can now disprove with numbers. I'll save you a little bit of work, Mrs Ministra. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein wanted to know numbers – I have numbers. You can read them too. There is the Ministry of Science's statistical pocketbook – I've got it here from 2013, I've still published it myself. However, I have the latest numbers of medical degree degrees from 2012/2013 – they are not yet available from 2013/2014 –: There the MedUni Wien has 748 degrees, the University of Graz 452, the University of Innsbruck 341. That's a total of 1 541. In the year before, it was a little more. To these degrees are still some from the Paracelsus Medical Private University in Salzburg, which takes 50 students each year. And in the future, the finals from Linz will be added, where we will expand to 300 beginners' places. In total, we have 19.9 degrees per hundred thousand inhabitants in Austria. That's Europe's top! The closest country, far behind us, is Denmark with 16.8 degrees on a hundred thousand inhabitants. However, we have not only the largest number of diplomas – and I come to the same conclusion – but we also have the largest number of doctors on a thousand inhabitants, namely 4.8. [[Abg. Stroll: But there are many going abroad! You know that!]] The nearest country where you can say the numbers exactly is Norway, I think, 4.1. And then Germany, Switzerland, Sweden – they're already under 4. So we have excellent numbers here, and a lack is not to be feared. It is only then to be feared – and now I come to the objection to speak – if we fail to keep a) these graduates in the country and b) to distribute them in such a way that all sections of the population and all the settlement rooms also benefit from these medical densities. This is our problem, and I have a very concrete concern, Mrs Ministra: You know, there's a lot to do, and you also know what to do. Something to do very urgently is to finally liberalize the question of house pharmacies for established doctors. It is unreasonable that doctors can no longer conduct such house pharmacies if in a certain area there is another pharmacy. In rural areas, people who have been prescribed a drug may have to wait over the weekend until the pharmacy opens again, or use public transport and take a long drive to reach a medicine. This regulation should be liberalised. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It must be everyone Doctors have the opportunity to conduct such a house apothecary, where it is simply useful. I urge you to put pressure in this direction, including in the negotiations between the chambers in question. There is a need for policy. We must not leave this to the chambers alone. Otherwise, I think the Austrian health system is good. We must preserve its strengths and reform its weaknesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15526	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15548	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is an important one – and you have had a few times the opportunity to discuss it in this legislative period in recent times – and I am therefore also grateful to Mr Loacker for this request, because one cannot find such a complex subject in the usual short speech. to deal with two or three minutes' contributions. You can't handle it in ten minutes, or like you do in 20 minutes, but you can take some focus. I am also pleased with an objective discussion that is being held today. However, there is no point in discussing matters that we do not also want to criticise certain passages. The issue, as has been said, is important. We also see in every ranking that people think that health is the most important for them, as well as anything related to it. The tradition of our system, free access to doctors, the cash register system, access to hospitals and all these things are incredibly important and expensive for patients. We must all, therefore, try together to maintain this. But we also know, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we see some things very controversial here. We have recently decided on a health reform in the National Council – a so-called health reform – and we have heard a few figures from you now in the response to the question – and I hope I have written them right now: With regard to the cost-damage path, it is said that there were about 3 billion euros saved by the health insurance companies. And as a detail, you mentioned: €480 million for doctors, €121 million for institutes, €219 million for cures and about €2 billion for medications. That's a good piece. Now you're wondering: We all know, and the patients know for a long time that in the form of long waiting periods, in the form of long journeys, we have a lack of performance – and yes, we have these reductions in performance, even if it is only about the length of waiting times in our system – and we also know that we have a lack of doctors. I'll come back to that. The health insurance companies are not a savings club, Mrs. Minister and ladies and gentlemen. If the health insurance companies have actually saved so much and shot above the target, then you have to welcome it – it is to be welcomed – but we do not accept that the services offer will be reduced, but we rather want to see it in the structures. And we finally want the health insurance companies to be put together! The above result cannot conceal the fact that we could significantly increase the potential by pooling. We also need more established doctors, especially in periphery. We need all these things. That means we also need more cash desks. In dentistry, the situation looks such that we still have considerable self retention and a performance catalogue. This is a catalogue that lists those benefits that the patient receives at health insurance costs, and with which we can work dentists – I am a dentist myself. There we are in the medical, in the dental stone age of the fifties, because it comes from this contract. Mr Spindelberger, you said that you are not for reduction of performance but for efficiency. – We are quite of an opinion; perfectly clear. It has only just received an e-mail from a Mr. E., who has written and said that the two-hour specialist waiting period in Austria is a nonsense. - Yeah, that's a wrong interpretation. It was meant of course: Hospital specialist when he's in the hospital. – He wrote down the realities: He's himself. a specialist has waited nine weeks for a neurological appointment, for an MRI eight weeks, for an orthopaedic appointment twelve weeks. These are alarm signs, ladies and gentlemen, and we simply have to get to the bottom of things. We all know where the reasons are: Unfortunately, we have an blatant medical shortage in this system. And it is not at all obvious that in Austria, although it is desirable to study medicine, it is not desirable to work here as a doctor. It's absurd, ladies and gentlemen, for us to stop the young people from working here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Spindelberger.]] We need to reconsider restrictive restrictions on access – that is not your construction site either. It must end with commissions and working groups. We have had enough discussions that break everything up. We have to put an end to the problems. There is no solution either. The weaknesses are clearly identified, solution models are also seen. And since we have also talked about Ebola today, I would like to remind you, also for tomorrow, of something and ask something: We do not have L4 laboratories in Austria or L4 stations that would be essential for the treatment of these high-risk patients. Of course, we have the resources for two to three patients, and there is no need to worry, but if it goes beyond that, we do not have the necessary infrastructure that has been prescribed internationally for such crisis situations. I would like to talk about you tomorrow, if you would like to talk about Ebola, but I would like to get some answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15623	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15644	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Perhaps then to the colleagues and his statements on the long waiting periods – and I wanted to say that in the direction of colleague Königsberger-Ludwig: In certain investigations, for example, MRI investigations, if you have a first finding that is annoying, where you are afraid, where you are waiting, it is so often too long a waiting time, that it is simply not to be seen anymore, because it is also a mental burden and because it is urgently explained. And if we talk about having a solidar system and wanting to maintain it, then we have to do everything we can. In the meantime, it is precisely in such investigations, as I have now mentioned them, that there is a difference between those who can afford it, between those who have good contacts and relationships and come to an investigation faster, and those who are just outside. To that end, we must all insist that we – and there has now been a lot of talk about structures, about the system, about everything that is reformed – put in place where it is not directly about human benefits. This is essential, and my colleague Eva Mückstein also wanted to point it out. I actually wanted to talk about another point in the urgent question, namely where the interface between care and health is concerned. It is a pity that the Minister – and in so far as it was a beautiful picture: the minister responsible for care next to the Minister responsible for health – was now no longer there, because if he were present, we could have made this interface faster. And we should also make this out more often, because it is very relevant. I would just like to point this out by an example from my private environment, namely, my grandmother's example, which was difficult to deal with, which was so demented, that it was about to stop medicamentally. This was then done during a stay in the Geriatry, and, unfortunately, my grandmother no longer came out of this geriatry, because she was so hospitalized after the stay and had such a shock due to the change in the place that she came to the nursing home sometime directly from there. What do I want to do with that? – Namely – and there are many reports, not only the dementia report that points out, but also the Court of Auditors and many experts point out – that it is precisely these interfaces between intra- and extra-mural, as the professional language says, that there is no care and health care, that is, between what happens in its own four walls, and what happens in the hospital, in the nursing home or elsewhere. There is no outpatient attitude of medication – in that case for my grandmother. There is no advice – for my parents who should have known what could have been done better in that case. There is no case- and care-management, but we know that this is urgently necessary. It would be nice if we were to think together about this area and about these interfaces, about these transitions between care and health, as it sounds in the request, much more thought, in the sense that people stay healthy longer, can also stay at home longer and are better cared for there. There is always the idea that there is something like a family nursing system, i.e. sisters who are on-site, or caregivers who are on-site and look at the patients or people in need of care and see what they need. The dementia report, but also the Court of Auditors, found that there are no appropriate treatment paths, that there is no treatment guidelines in this context. I believe that this area is extremely important, and I am completely lacking in the discussion, because it is obvious that there is a “gap” between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health – in so far as the picture was so beautiful – so there is a gap that we should close and look at. A word – and this is also happening in the request – to the care professions: I also think that high-quality training is necessary, and I am waiting for an answer from the Ministry of Health, because there you are the competent minister: What does it look like with a high quality care training? – Although we have a system of various types of care and caregivers, from home care to technical high school education to nursing science, there is much too little in between, in the elevated area in care, and there is a need for appropriate training. But we also need an appreciation of the caregivers in this country, because, as we all know, the care profession is extremely strenuous, psychological as well as physical, and it belongs to support, not only in training but also in payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15705	The next item is Dr. Nachbaur's report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15726	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! There is no doubt that we have a good, but a far too expensive health system for which we spend about 11 percent of GDP. Other countries in Europe, which can be compared with Austria, spend about 9 percent of GDP – and each percent more means €3 billion more in costs. Austria is a hospital European champion, what the beds are about to do, and therefore we clearly say that we must clearly restrict this growing healthcare system to the benefit of the established doctors. Bedding is constantly being discussed, with more beds being built according to recent studies – on the contrary. Stationary medicine is very expensive and, in fact, not designed at all to constantly provide the patients in the ambulances, which would be much better removed from a settled doctor. The ambulances devour vast amounts of money and contribute to rural flight. But the people in the country need a proper infrastructure, and that also means: the doctor in the country. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Stroll.]] Health must be federal competence and, as the Court of Auditors rightly said, revenue and expenditure must come from one source. This applies in principle to our spending countries – not only in health care – because the countries always get into the pockets of the federal government, which seem to fill themselves with magic. This magic, dear taxpayers, does not mean anything but that taxpayers are asked to cash as always. That is why we say that this strange mixture of revenue centralism and expenditure federalism must finally be corrected! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Hable.]] The revenue and expenditure and the related responsibility must not be completely decoupled. Countries must be able to take certain taxes themselves – and then let us see in which kilometres they build their hospitals next to each other. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Hable.]] In order to strengthen the established doctors, we need to reduce bureaucracy and strengthen free entrepreneurship, as is the case everywhere in Austria: in this case, free entrepreneurship will allow, for only in this way can we ensure the supply of the country in the future. For doctors, they must be allowed to choose the best legal form for their practices – perhaps they want to choose the form of a GmbH – and each doctor must be able to choose his own, just as it must be possible for him to set up a managing director who then makes the bills for him. And doctors also need to be able to work with doctors. I was very surprised when I noticed in the research that doctors, for example, cannot choose the legal form of a GmbH for their practice. The reason, ladies and gentlemen, is quite simple – that is, typical Austrian –: If they choose the legal form of the GmbH, you are automatically a member of the Chamber of Commerce, otherwise they are in the Medical Chamber. In other words, this rigid chamber system actually means that patients are affected and at the expense of the population – and that is not a good system. [[Abg. Obernoster: But this is a good system!]] [[Abg. Obernoster: But this is a good system!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Doctors are expected to save lives, Mr. Obernosterer, but politics does not trust you that they choose the right legal form for their practice. I think that's kind of absurd. Only a high degree of entrepreneurial freedom and a significantly reduced administrative burden guarantee individual therapy and good medicine, because only in freedom there is competition – and fair competition always means quality improvement. The established doctor must finally be recognized as a fully responsible physician. He knows his patients and should not have to be prescribed by the head doctor in the local health insurance fund, how he has to treat his patients, especially since this chief physician has never seen a patient with a certain probability – and will never get to the face. The health insurance companies often make very different specifications. There's almost a chance to suspect randomity. We need to ensure that our health system remains financeable in the long term, so that people can get the best possible care – and especially in the country. The system needs to be much more efficient, we need to work more cost-effectively and we need to see that people live healthy longer. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] This is only through less bureaucracy, more freedom and more confidence in people's own responsibility. This also applies not only to our health system, but also to the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15816	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is completely undisputed that a health system cannot be changed from today to tomorrow. We don't want NEOS either. It is absolutely crazy to believe that we are so far away from real policy. [[Abg. Schönegger: Well, well!]] Yes, there have been many steps taken, but on a subject, Mr. Cot, has not been discussed yet, or has been talked about, but one has not trusted himself, except Christoph Leitl, who raised this again before the summer, and that is the question of the aggregation of social security funds. It is quite a current discussion, because like the colleague... – Now we need to discuss it again. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, that's exactly what we're saying: That is exactly what we need to discuss again, and that is why we make the request. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Franz pointed out that, even today, Peter MacDonald's “standard” was premeditated as the head of the main association, and he took over the restructuring of cash registers. The “standard” calculates: € 1.25 billion, this rehabilitation has been done through tax money – by tax money please! That is to say, the taxpayers have ultimately rehabilitated the cash registers. The problem is, however, that these taxpayers are squeaked out, and that is why we must take further steps here. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] The forecasts are not rosy. The cash-flow structure fund is running out, VAT on drugs is paid back only to the extent that they are actually paid back. 2016, the “standard” writes, again threatens a financial hole of €161 million, while at the same time there are new strains, such as now due to the free gears, that is simply to be mentioned. At the same time, as you mentioned in the reply today, deposits worth €2.4 billion – not in all cash offices, but in some cash registers. I would like to ask myself why we are not talking about the structure of social security funds in Austria. Of course, we can turn to small wheels, but our approach is that this country needs greater structural reforms, and this, of course, also concerns social security schemes. I'll tell you something: I was on the road a lot in the summer in Vienna and met a Danes with whom I had chatted. She told me that she did not understand why there are so many different social security schemes in Austria. In Denmark this was also the case. The exact number she couldn't tell me – I'll end up with. Today, of course, there is only a public checkout in Denmark. So this utopia exists in other countries, which are not so far away at all – and Matthias Strolz also always points out in the field of education. The problem is that the system is unfair, because the criteria for deposit into the various social security institutions are the same for all, but the benefits are not the same. It can, please, not be that the profession and the federal state decide what services I actually get. You know how different the service catalogues of the health insurance companies are, and then tell me that's fair?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Stroll: This is unfair!]] It was mentioned that consideration should be given to regional conditions and specificities. – Yes, sure, but it can’t be that the regional particularity is that for example, blood decreases are paid differently from in Vienna for doctors in Vorarlberg. That really can't be it, and that's also misunderstood federalism. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Again: This is not a reform from today to tomorrow, which is perfectly clear to us, but it is a question of our wish for a strategy and even the commitment: We want to go in this direction. I say something to you about Denmark – we have researched this –: Do you know how many checkouts there were?- Oh, my God! – Around 1900 there were over 1 300 cash registers. In 1960 there was 18 and now there is only one. So it's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e15974	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16046	Next speaker: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16068	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! High house! What my colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger has forgotten about this is the addition of the number of private carriers in such a country. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: How many are there? Do you know?]] – I don’t know about Denmark, but in Bavaria there are 101 health insurance companies – and a legal one, thank you. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But there is also a public!]] A demand from NEOS, a painful topic, is always the combination of the Austrian social security funds, as you have easily noticed. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not just NEOS! There are several!]] In principle, as we have heard more often and rightly, we have one of the best health systems in the world in which social insurance companies play a crucial role. So what is behind the permanent closed demand of the opposition parties – and I mean all of them – after the merger of social security funds under the cover of cost efficiency? - But I'm still coming to that. [[Abg. Stroll: Attention! The Minister of Finance is calling for this too!]] You do not need to believe that regional insured persons in Austria would be better cared for if there were a single social security fund. You can't be serious! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But you don't have to believe that they are being cared for worse!]] Now on cost efficiency: The administrative burden of the social security funds in Austria is on average – over all the institutions in Austria – 2.8 percent, sometimes even below 2%. So much to your supposed bloated system. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: 22 presidies with limousines, directors – you know how it is...!]] If we put this good system in private hands, as it often seems to be your insidious approach, the administrative burden would mean at least 10 percent, but up to 16 percent. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You will create completely new additional jobs, which did not exist before!]] This means, in concrete terms, that: In the current system, an insured person gets back over 97 percent of performance at 100 €. In the private system, the same insured person would in the best case receive 90 € in benefit. I have the impression that the NEOS – perhaps a little better today, but now also public – are rather pursuing economic interests in their demand, because a related reduction in performance to the insured cannot want anyone, at least none in social democracy, I can tell you that. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] According to an APA report mentioned by NEOS today, there is also the accusation in the room, as we have already heard, that additional means of taxation have been used for the cash recovery. Now to the correction: In the past, however, what you may not know, because you were not yet in Parliament, there have been supplementary benefits prescribed by social security, but which were not sufficiently covered by the budget – that is a fact – and thus actually caused the deficit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] The cash-flow fund already set up for this purpose has only corrected this misstatement under strict conditions for the use of the social security funds concerned, and you should know that! [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: With means of taxation!]] In order for political change to happen, it is more than negligible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My observation is that once again social security bashing is being carried out and therefore economic interests are placed against a freely accessible, solidary health system. I am sorry for the approximately 25,000 employees in social security, who are constantly under arrest – and above all not justified – over and over again. Therefore, as NEOS, but also other opposition parties, you were written in the main book: Dear self-management by insured persons as a highly paid private manager! [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] The e-card should continue to ensure common access to the health system instead of the credit card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16246	The next word comes from Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16268	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm allowed to have a couple of students. Welcome from the school of Wasagasse. Welcome! I'm glad you're interested in the issues in Parliament. [[General condolences.]] I also miss the urgency of Mr Loacker's urgent question. Parliamentary Rasinger has already said that apples are mixed with pears, and I have the feeling that grapes are also taken into account. You have certainly read the government programme carefully, but perhaps you do not deal so well with one point or another. A written request might have been sufficient. I would like to comment on a few points: It's always talked about the lack of doctors. In Austria there are certainly enough doctors trained, we have the second highest medical density in Europe. What we really need and what is a problem is medical care in rural areas, and I know what I am talking about as mayor. I just talked to a doctor recently. He told me that although everything is good and beautiful, the doctors also expect a certain quality of life. They wish themselves, for example, if they live there, all the school forms for their children, a good cultural offer and a good infrastructure. You also wish for a regulated working time and, of course, a cash agreement and, finally, a decent salary. Unfortunately, it is very often the case that doctors choose to go to Germany or Switzerland for these reasons, because there they deserve at least a little more. A positive development, perhaps I would like to say, is certain that more and more women are drawing to a medical education. The compatibility of family and profession is still difficult. There is certainly still a lot to do, we do not need to talk about it at all, but thank God there are already many possibilities there. A word on health care. The quality of health care also affects the end of life. The expansion of hospice and palliative care is a major concern of the ÖVP. Collaborator Aubauer and colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg are committed to this in the newly established committee of inquiry “Wwerde at the end of life”. My support is safe for them. Thank you for your commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: Our health system is indeed a very complex system and often also a difficult matter. In part, it is still associated with much bureaucracy. It is certainly a great task and challenge to improve this system and reduce bureaucracy. But it is a good system, and many countries would be happy if they had such a supply as they do in Austria, even in their countries. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We are looking forward to good discussions and good cooperation in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16337	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16358	Mr President. Minister! High house! First of all, Madam Minister, I should like to thank you once again for the very constructive cooperation in the Committee. We are very happy that we have again a doctor as a competent health minister. I think that's a very important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this urgent request may be justified, but – and that is what some previous speakers have meant – it seems to me like a mixed salad without vinegar. The importance of this issue is out of question, but I simply cannot see the point on which it comes. [[Abg. Stroll: That's the problem!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What this federal government conceals from the population is the following: There is less and less money for the treatment of sick and injured people. And especially in the field of precautionary care there is a bad development. It threatens to reduce performance and even more bureaucracy. What this Federal Government also conceals the doctors, these are even more bureaucracy in the ordinations and hospitals, even less time for the doctors for the patients and a state premeditation. The planned health reform was the largest savings package in the Austrian health care system that this has ever experienced, and it is at the expense of the patients. In just four years, public health expenditure will be saved €3.4 billion. Our health system threatens a massive reduction in performance – at the expense of patients, at the expense of employees and at the expense of doctors, nurses and nurses in the hospitals! In return, ladies and gentlemen, bureaucracy and administration are being bloated and the administrative buildings are getting bigger and bigger. On the other hand, the number of hospital beds is reduced and stations are blocked. This has not deserved our country and our people. We strongly reject such developments! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16398	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16419	Mr National Council President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear audience! I would like to begin by congratulating you, Mrs Health Minister, for taking over your new role. I'm glad. Thank you. In connection with the urgent request made by NEOS, I would now like to make a few remarks on the structures of change in the health sector. An important point is health care. Every person has a right to health care – whether thick, thin, small, disabled or not. We must not forget these people. In particular, people in the acute area are affected by barriers. I would like to give a few examples of this. An example is the possibility of emergency calls. And that's... My father, who was sick, who was a nursing case, once happened that he fell out of bed. That was in the middle of the night, at one or two o'clock in the night. I couldn't make a phone call because I'm deaf. I had no way to wake up a neighbor, because it was in the middle of the night. I couldn't reach a friend and no friend either, had to wait until six o'clock in the morning until I finally reached a friend and finally he could get the rescue. Or another situation: My mother's heartbroken. There is the possibility in the Ministry of the Interior to send a fax in case of an emergency, so that the rescue will come in the future. I really had to wait two hours until Someone came. That was an acute situation that many people have to contend with. I have to say: Very, very often it happens that people, that people are not at all cared for and do not get any information. In the ministry there is a possibility of an emergency call. You can send a text message or a fax. Do you know who's in charge? - That's the police's radio station! I think that's an impossible situation. If people are in distress, you should be able to reach doctors directly or directly, for example, reach the fire brigade, because if that is not possible, then you really lose valuable time. An emergency call – this is really a situation where a solution has to come quickly! As you can remember, we have made a common request regarding accessibility. I think that we could, together with the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, bring about a solution. That would necessarily be necessary. - That's one. The other concerns the situation when someone is admitted to the emergency room and the doctor has no opportunity to talk to the patient because there is no interpreter at night. What are the possibilities? – In particular, deaf people or deaf people or people with migration backgrounds and people from abroad must also be given the opportunity to communicate. A 24-hour headquarters would be the solution. One could call the headquarters, and there would be an interpreter sitting, and he would translate the conversations between the patient and the doctor simultaneously. That means that the interpreter wouldn't sit like mine here now, but would be in a central position. Such a solution would be essential in order to ensure equal access to medical care. Another example, and we must not forget: Buildings have different barriers, and it makes the choice of the doctor difficult if the doctor is in a building where there is no structural accessibility. The National Action Plan is under Action No. 209: Preparation of a phase plan for accessible health care. This means all hospitals, all buildings. That sounds wonderful, but it also says that the plan should be completed by the year 2013. But I didn't hear about it. Have you, Mrs. Health Minister, heard of it? I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if you would support me – in the sense of all patients – in the realization of accessibility. In my opinion, it should be a matter of course that everyone has a right to barrier-free health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16484	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16505	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Health and care, these are two areas that cannot be separated. We have an ageing society. The ÖROK study, which everyone is sure to know, also says that by 2030 the number of over 85-year-olds, the elderly, in some regions will double, in others will even triple. Such an ageing society has different requirements for the health system than a young society. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need is a very close link between the health system and the care sector. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of NEOS.]] We have a huge concern about rural areas. We are concerned that there will no longer be enough domestic doctors in the future. We are concerned that there is already a huge shortage in the specialist field. I can't confirm the numbers I've heard today, because I know specifically about a case where someone had to wait a year for an ophthalmologist's appointment. Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly 11 months too much. Here we need action! We need to see that there are more specialists in rural areas, and we need to see that the agricultural doctors are preserved. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The problem of federalism has been discussed very often today. We cannot afford this federalism anymore. Not only that we can't afford him, he doesn't make any sense! Or is there anyone here in the room who can explain to me why in the care area, for example, a Vienna only needs 14 square meters of space, a Carinthian 18 square meters? These are insanityes, that's no longer modern, we need to change the system! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Not only is the system no longer eligible for funding, it is also reluctant. Take, for example, the social assistance sector! One country has object promotion – like Salzburg in the nursing homes – the Styria has subject promotion, and then there are mixed systems. There is no clear structure there! We need to think about how we can create a transparent, simple, well-financed system. If we do not succeed, then we have the problem of dissolidating society. That is to say, the boys will no longer be ready to finance this old, overpriced system, and at some point will cancel solidarity. That is why it is our party's concern to introduce a care insurance scheme. We want the care to be financed quite clearly, easily and transparently and that the boys do not say in several years: Well, they take so much out of the tax pot, we're not ready to pay the whole thing! Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for action! We can't pretend there's nothing to do. We also need to take a closer look at the care area. There are many professions in the care sector, but on average all employees stay there for only 17.5 years. In other words, the pressure of performance is so high and people are required so much that they can no longer exercise this job for more than 17.5 years. At this point: All those who take care of our group thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of NEOS.]] They do great things! What would help our society without those people who are willing to help other people, especially in a situation where the caregivers are suffering? Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of NEOS.]] As far as care is concerned, we know that we must do everything we can to maintain the independence of the old people for as long as possible. We need a lot of new concepts, we need ideas, we need new facilities. Fortunately, we have part-station facilities such as day centers, such as caring living, caring living, short-term care, housing communities. There are already some in this area. many things, but we also need to think of new concepts as part-time care is much cheaper compared to full-station care. In this sense: We all have very much to do that society remains solidarized, and we need the highest level of action. Let's get it started! Let's reform the state! Let's think about federalism again! And above all, we are considering the areas in which it is useful and in which areas we should abolish it as soon as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16613	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16635	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Before I go into the debate – I will focus on citizen participation in the health system in particular – I would like to address the statements made by two previous speakers. Estimated colleague Rasinger! You have proven that you did not understand our program, because our program has not changed since the election. Although we have developed it further and added one or the other, nothing has changed in particular. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] So far, you have been noticed by special proposals concerning the professional clothing of national councillors. I would like more content input and not pure NEOS bashing. In the direction of the FPÖ colleagues: Yes, it may be that our request appears to be herb and beetroot. But this is not our intention, but our system is set up in this way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler]] We represent a comprehensive approach, we say health and care belong to a roof. And if we want to highlight all aspects, it is a very extensive request and concerns several resorts. We have not invented this system in its complexity. Here, please contact the Federal Government directly. I would now like to look at the possibilities of citizen participation in the health system. Participation means the process of involving those concerned, i.e. those who are actually affected by our decisions – and that would be all people living in Austria. Participation has incredible benefits, especially in the health sector. We have heard a lot about the principle of “Primary Health Care”, a multi-professional primary care, which can and can relieve expensive hospital infrastructures, especially in rural areas, as an interplay of various health professionals. This is quite common in other countries. I would like to give you a brief example from Canada, where the participation of citizens works exemplaryly and has come directly from the needs of the local population of health centres, which are still regarded as an absolute success story in this area. In 2009, patient reports identified areas that needed the greatest improvement in a Canadian province with nearly 1 million inhabitants. In the meantime, there is no day when not thousands of people benefit from this successful common path. They go to the doctor in their health center, which they have developed themselves. They call on a health shotline that they have thought in themselves, and they consult a parish nurse – sometimes, I assume, also a parish brother – and this concept was also developed by the population. It is therefore about health advice, preventive care and, of course, also about treatment when problems arise. All health services have just been developed together and implemented step by step together. This means not to fill in a survey paper afterwards on how satisfied one was with the care, but to describe in advance what problems exist, where there are special concerns, and that means to implement this step by step together, for example by congresses, by conventions, in smaller cities. I am not talking about metropolises now, but I am talking about communities that in our order would be district capitals, market communities, where I gather, invite people and discuss them together. It works very well. However, the participation of citizens in this process brings much more than satisfied end-users in this system, it strengthens people's confidence and the relationship with these institutions. And these are essential prerequisites for the success of the preventive and health programmes. This process of civil participation makes the health system different. It may end up with the same thing, but it is no longer perceived as the health system, which is perceived by the government, which is the policy set by the state, but it is perceived as the health system of the people. It is perceived as its own health facility in the region, and that is simply and simply the truth. It is not we who determine the health system alone, but our customers and the people who finance it are all those who pay taxes in Austria. Now there is a very interesting paper by Gesundheit Österreich GmbH. So back from Canada to Austria. Here you will find important inputs for citizens' participation procedures. They clearly explain why such procedures are important and correct. In any case, here we need much more publicity and publicity of these projects, so that on the one hand many people can participate, but on the other hand many politicians also have the courage to encourage such processes. To conclude: How do we imagine that? – Of course, it can now also be started in a model region. It would be appropriate if no volunteers were to move forward, of course the only metropolis in Austria, Vienna. As a result, it would be possible to hold citizens' conventions in all districts, once the inputs have been collected: What are the concerns? What are the ideas? How can you do this most easily? and take people step by step here. This, of course, also means an appropriate evaluation and implementation. Even though this participative process binds both human and financial resources, common solutions, borne by the citizens together with the political representatives, are the best investment in a future that offers stable social networks for all: That means grand fitness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16708	The next item is the report by Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This urgent question is the first urgent question to our new Minister of State Dr. Oberhauser – and She has shown that she is competent and that she can fully bring in her expertise here as a political representative of health care. If someone answers this urgent request in 20 minutes as she did, then, I mean, this deserves great respect and a warm compliment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points of the urgent request, first of all those where the working time scheme is criticised, namely, in concrete terms, that according to § 8 of the Hospital Working Time Act, where the possibility has been granted, in exceptional cases, which can and will always be available in medicine, to continue to exceed the weekly working time of 48 hours from 2021 onwards. My question is: How do NEOS imagine this because they criticise it? We still have the regulation in § 4 of the Hospital Working Time Act in the calculation period of 60 and 72 hours respectively. How do NEOS imagine this when an unforeseen event occurs, a mass accident where a large number of doctors are needed in the hospital, or surgery takes longer than planned? Then the doctor needs to stop operating, another doctor continues to operate, or what to do with the patient? I believe that this working time scheme is flexible and brings benefits to patients, but it also brings many benefits to the doctors, because from 2021 on, 48 hours are laid down, which should generally also be observed, with effect from 1. It is mandatory in January 2015 that replacement rest periods should be granted in the case of additional work. I think that is an essential point. It can be seen that the government is taking into account the doctors, that this regulation increases the attractiveness of the medical profession, and that, of course, it is also an essential point for patients to have a much greater degree of certainty that the physician she is treating will take care of. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also, the opt-out model or the option of opt-out is criticized, where the doctors can decide for themselves whether to provide the extended services or not under certain conditions. I see this as an essential step towards greater co-determination among the staff concerned. I would also like to take a brief look at the measures of medical education in the Medical Law. That is, as I think, a milestone towards a modern, forward-looking medical education. We will deal with these issues in the Committee on Health tomorrow. To conclude: Mrs. Federal Minister, you are in office for a short period of 52 days. If I could use a medical expression for your performance up to now, I would say: The treatment has gone very well, the surgery has succeeded, the patient is well on it. In this sense, warm congratulations, Mrs Federal Minister, continue to be a great success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In short, on the comments which deal with a request concerning the appointment of doctors to doctors. I think this is a very complex issue. As the forthcoming health reform requires new discussions, all partners need to work together. It's about funding, federalism. I don't think that's easy. The fact that we are not going to agree now is clear to everyone, as I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16803	Next word: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16826	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This urgent request by NEOS is quite remarkable. On the one hand, of course, from its scale, it shows that NEOS have really dealt intensively with the government programme on health. On the other hand, their 82 questions also clearly show that they have not yet understood much of them. In addition, there is no real urgency in the question, and so the whole question is not really urgent. Mr Loacker, you are not always consistent in your argument, either, because on the one hand you rightly complain that much is too expensive in the system. On the other hand, however, demands are set up which would bind immense funds. I think there's something going on here. It seems to me that there is still a lot of need for discussion, but the health committee would certainly have been the right place for this issue. Some of your demands are already outdated, because in reality we are discussing tomorrow the Medical Law and the Hospital Working Time Act, an important step in the right direction, as I mean. That also corresponds to some of your demands. Your demand for a merger of responsibility in the areas of care and health can be prevented from reducing the number of key and disbursing jobs to seven places by means of the Care Money Reform Act and the Care Fund Act.This has led to an important step in the right direction. Personally, I am also deeply convinced that we should now also give some time to the target group in which the representatives of the countries, the federal government and the social insurance companies cooperate, in order to achieve a result. Vorarlberger Landesrat Bernhard, who is responsible for this area, assured me that in this discussion one is very, very far and a lot to expect. Your demand for financing from a single source is, in fact, an archival requirement for the countries, especially the state of Vorarlberg. This is where the funding of the established doctor and hospital area is to be regulated. The question is still about financing, i.e. the contributions of the social security institution. But that this regulation must be in the hands of the countries seems to me personally logical. For who, if not the countries, knows best how to use these funds most efficiently. In fact, it is a pity that your urgency has not been used for a very urgent topic, namely Ebola. [[Abg. Stroll: Health!]] On this issue, people are currently being informed by the media a little bit unilaterally. And I believe that we have already taken good measures in the country to be prepared for this crisis. I am thinking only of the emergency plans that have been drawn up, of the intensive training of the staff in the hospitals, in the hospital hospitals. On a broad basis, doctors and medical staff are informed. The necessary insulation equipment and equipment are also available. These would have been messages that we could have given to people from this point of view and that could have taken something of their concern, which they naturally have because of the media coverage. [[Abg. Stroll: Financial compensation, that's urgent!]] We, Mrs. Minister, rely on you as a doctor, as an expert in this field and also on the expertise of your home to ensure that you set the right measures for the safety of the population in Austria in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16876	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16897	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you very much, Mrs Minister, for the extensive answer to our questions. It is quite remarkable that you have not somehow lengthened away by reference to your competences. I respect that very much. With a few other speeches, Mr Spindelberger, colleague Dr. Rasinger, I was struck by the former Minister of Economic Affairs Bobby Graf, to whom an opposition politician called: I don't understand! And the Bobby Graf said to him: Now think about why you don't understand! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The complexity of the system is the cause of the complexity of the catalogue of questions, and therefore various cross-sectoral issues have also been part of history. On the question of the Best Point of Service, Mrs. Federal Minister with a rhetorical volte has tried to stamp me as a centralist. It's not about whether the Best Point of Service is always the same, but it's about us: There is no definition at all of the Best Point of Service, neither for rural regions nor for urban areas. If it is built, we wanted to abolish social security, then, I believe, the colleagues from the SPÖ, Mr Königsberger-Ludwig, did not take the time to read our request and listen to my speech before her speech. As we wish for structural changes, I would like to make one more motion for a resolution. We need to bring more dynamics into the health system. This is about structural issues. Today, the professional worlds are changing. We need the possibility that doctors can employ doctors. Therefore, the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The health reform project is sent from the station, but should quickly come to the target station. And we wish you all the best and good luck, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e16964	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17019	Preliminary word reference to the following: Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17040	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the case of the NEOS, the As a matter of fact, the urgent question has opened up a number of possibilities and, of course, gives our new Minister the opportunity to present herself once to explain the key points of her health reform and, of course, to discuss the important issue of health. Whether this is necessary in the form of a urgent procedure is put forward. But of course we trust you, Mrs. Federal Minister. You are a doctor, a practitioner, a professional, and in this case it is of course very important that we have you and can rely on you. But, of course, in the health sector, there are many construction sites that belong to them. Some have remained lying. Of course it is. But if we're just thinking about last week, I'd like to congratulate you, Mrs. Minister. As far as Ebola is concerned, with your information offensive and with the specific precautionary plan, you have the baptism of fire, I think, very well passed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I would also like to wish the new head of the main association, Peter McDonald, in his new role, all the good things that, in his former role as head of the social security of the industrial economy, has created a future model with his precautionary model. I think he will also do his job as Chief of the Association very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Of course, I would also like to congratulate our Federal Minister Hans Jörg Schelling, who has brought the health insurance recovery to the rails. I think that was a great task, and it is a matter of respect to him. Tomorrow we will decide to redesign the medical training in the House. Together with the Medical Chamber, a milestone has also been achieved here, because the new Medical Law and the Hospital Working Time Act will bring substantial improvements and guarantee a high quality of medical care in Austria in the future. Unfortunately, the NEOS are not there, which I cannot quite understand. The NEOS, as I believe, is not about improvements in terms of content, but about vague criticism of the transitional periods of the doctors' service. But in general one can say, and there, I think, I am speaking for everyone that we are taking a first important step with the Medical Law to ensure medical research in the established area. Because the alarm bells are ringing at me. In many communities the post-occupying of domestic doctors is a major problem. These medical offices are often called out, even several times, and are espoused throughout Austria, because one no longer finds successors. It is therefore all the more important that we develop a practical family doctor model that makes it attractive for young doctors to move to the country. A comprehensive medical care in the country also has a lot to do with the problem, and there I am with my previous speaker daughters to do the number of pharmacies: which the house pharmacies are falling and which the normal pharmacies are increasing. That's a contradiction. Of course, it is also the case that the house pharmacies are a reason for the doctors to settle down. If we cannot solve this question, that is a problem. Some doctors may not be able to move to the outskirts due to the provision that 6 kilometres to the next pharmacy, making it all the more difficult for people to come to them. Medical care in the country needs particularly practical solutions. As a model, I would like to mention here the pilot project of Perg and Schärding, which ensures the emergency care of people in the regions around the clock. The emergency doctor can be reached 24 hours a day together with a medicament and on the way as part of the house visits. In this way we ensure medical care, especially in night and weekend services, and the willingness is given. There is still much to be done in the health sector. But we're not going to be left with pity and nostrils. It is important to implement the proposals already on the table. Let's take it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17116	No one is reporting on this. I will close this debate. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on the merger of social security funds. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the appointment of doctors by doctors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. [[17:59:26]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17171	I will resume the negotiations on points 7 and 8. Mrs Vringerstorfer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17195	Mr President. High house! From the health issues back to the original debate: We were with nuclear power and the processes of the last days. First of all, I would like to say in general that I welcome it very, very much, and I think it is very exemplary that the House should be closed here against nuclear power, and that I would also follow the case before the European Court of Justice with the claim against Hankley Point. That, I think, is a very, very beautiful sign, which is also in the sense of all Austrians. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] So here we have a clear Austrian line. I do not see this line very clearly in the EU. In March, in an opinion on the British nuclear power plant plans, the EU expressed a critical view of distortion of competition and trade impairment. The Nog-Energy Commissioner Öttinger referred to the guarantee contract – i.e. the 35-year guaranteed purchase price of 111 € per megawatt hour, and the whole also inflation guaranteed – even as a Soviet. That was the opinion in March, and as you know, the divorced EU Competition Commissioner finally recommended the Hinkley Point project. His recommendation was followed, though scarcely. This is a decision which, in my opinion, is quite disastrous, a very bad, negative sign, namely with regard to further energy measures, with regard to the energy transition. I also have a bit of a question mark as to the behaviour of our Austrian Commissioner, Mr Hahn, who, although voting against it, nevertheless left out the opportunity to make a request for a shift, because this project would have fallen within the competence of the new Commission. I think that the new Danish Commissioner for Competition would have been much more critical in this case. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Right!]] So here I have to ask myself why we have not acted differently, especially in the sense of the Austrians and also of this unanimous opinion that we have here. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] As a general rule, it is not only a power plant, it is also a clear precedent for me, which shows a decisive change in the EU's energy policy. Because of this, it has now come so far that the Czech Republic suddenly again loves to implement the expansion of Temelín. Originally, this has been laid down because of an economic ad acta. While we are discussing the development and possible new construction of nuclear power plants, unfortunately a fundamental problem will continue to be overlooked. We have once again the bridge to the previous debate on the issue of nuclear waste disposal. According to the latest reports, possible storage sites are being examined in the Czech Republic not far from the Austrian border. A look at the security question that is still unsolved in the framework of the milking process should be taken into consideration here. The EU decision on Hankley Point is – I can only mention this once again – an absolute evidence of poverty for our energy transition!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17244	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17265	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Yes, there are two agenda items being discussed under one. As soon as possible to the common anti-CFC application, all political groups: We also support this, of course, NEOS. We hold much of the right of self-determination of the national states and do not want to impose on the Member States of the European Union, but have a positive effect on them that they are actually in line with the energy transition. The main thing in the day-to-day discussion is from my point of view Hankley Point C. As we have already heard from my previous speakers, this is the clear subsidisation of a newly built nuclear power station in the UK, designed for 35 years: 11 cents per kilowatt hour. In fact, I think it is critical if we are here on the one hand here in the National Council to ensure that we make renewables marketable, says that they can exist on the market without subsidies, while other Member States are re-entering directly into the strong subsidisation. Now, of course, there are arguments for saying: The British market has little impact on Austria, which is an island. But this can, of course, also serve as a model for the Czech market, for the Polish market, as the Green Club has already mentioned. It is extremely necessary that we, as Austria, work towards the European Commission to ensure that there is no new subsidies in principle, since any subsidy in this market is a distortion of competition. Instead, we must try to reduce existing subsidies in a reasonable time frame. In the course of the discussion on nuclear technology, but also on the previous item on the agenda, namely fracking, we have another concern, namely the field of annual reporting, the technology monitoring and risk assessment. Tung. In the German Bundestag there is the Technology Impact Assessment Office. We have a clear trend here in Austria, and we also generally agree with NEOS that we take technologies out of the market, that we demonstrate the political will by saying: Certain technologies – no, thank you! In our view, however, it is necessary to report annually to the National Council how these technologies are developing, not only because we want to use them at a later stage, but also because of the fact that neighbouring countries are using these technologies and here the National Council should make much more evidence-based policies in the future. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17308	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17329	Mr President. High house! In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have held a very comprehensive debate on anti-atomic policy. I am very glad that, in turn, an all-party agreement has been reached on this motion for a resolution, which strongly supports the anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government through the whole of the House. This also gives us the opportunity to really speak with a clear, clear voice. I myself have repeatedly expressed my view on the question of nuclear technology as an energy reserve. This is a high-risk energy system that is ultimately not responsible! Even the Commissioner of the current Commission, Öttinger, has called this energy system a high-risk energy system. Unfortunately, Fukushima and even earlier Chernobyl have manifested this in a terrible way. I am very glad that we were already able to present a study by the Federal Environment Agency in March of this year and by GLOBAL 2000 on the issue of "Emission from Nuclear Energy – From Vision to Reality", which clearly underlines that the exit from nuclear energy can be achieved in Europe by 2030, if the energy systems are determined to be renewable, renewable energy systems. Austria, especially when looking at the power supply, is really a pioneer in Europe with a share of 65 percent of renewable energy sources. I have expressed very clearly, also in the debate in the Environment Committee, that Austria was, unfortunately, the only Member State of the Union which had already delivered a clear negative opinion in the aid procedure, supported by an analysis of a law firm which we commissioned very early. I also held consultations with a number of Member States' environmental ministers shortly before the European Commission's decision on the verge of the climate conference in New York and tried to stop the Commission's aid decision and also discussed together with Commissioner Hedegaard the possible strategies for shifting this decision. Unfortunately, in the end, I have to say this today, it has come to the decision of the European Commission to approve this aid. That is from my point of view – and I have already quite clearly qualified it – the most blatant wrong decision of the Barroso Commission. We have made a very quick decision in the Austrian Federal Government that the action is going to be brought against the German Chancellor's Office/Constitutional Service, which is currently being prepared and will accordingly object to this decision. I am also involved – and I hope, in a conversation with my German colleague in Berlin tomorrow too – in bringing the German Federal Government to the conviction that it is also joining this invalidity action. Barbara Hendricks has also publicly expressed her intention to pledge the cabinet to this line. The Luxembourg counterpart has also expressed himself in this direction. So we are no longer alone as a member country on this issue. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To conclude, let me express my appreciation that it is important, in my view, for the European Parliament to show a clear flag here too. We should all work in our political groups to ensure that the European Parliament cannot also take note of the fact that, as it were, the old Commission is prejudicing the important question of creating an energy union, which must be one of the main tasks of the future legislative and executive at European level. Such a decision must not be prejudicial to this ques tion. Therefore, from my point of view, the European Parliament, in the form of an own-initiative proposal, must also take a clear decision against this aid. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17380	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17402	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for the clear words about the Hankley Point, this South-West English initiative to build two nuclear power plants in addition to the two existing ones. Here, in fact, only the European Parliament or the courts can help us. If you were against nuclear power from the beginning, often against the line of your own party, then you have to consider it a serious setback. It is not only a setback for the initiative against nuclear power, but also for European thought in general, because this will, of course, again call a lot of critics of Europe on the agenda, and one will be mixed with the other. On today's topic: We have an initiative, namely, “A exit now”, with about 70 000 signatures. This confirms the desire of our country to stand up for this exit in the hands of the European nations. Austria has been and is still in a pioneering role with the action plan on renewable energy, with the Energy Efficiency Act and has shown that it is also without nuclear power. However, we know how weaved networks are in those countries, I am thinking only of France, which does not want to give up this dependence on nuclear power at all. All the more so, we must insist that we strengthen the security systems, including the safety systems for disposal. This morning we heard in the news about the drilling tests along the Austrian border, which the Czechs are planning and where there are so many similar attempts: This will be carried out only in 2025, and by then the environmental impact assessment and the environmental impact assessment have been completed! – So this is another threat scenario where we have to take the plan. He's possible, the nuclear exodus by 2030! The German Chancellor Angela Merkel has very bravely taken the lead also in leaving the Federal Republic of Germany, which is certainly a model for other countries and European nations. Austria has ventured its way into renewable energy – that has already been mentioned – and has already been implemented very successfully; we are on half-way. 32 percent of our energy is already from renewable energy, with electricity being about 65 percent. That's where we have to go. If an economic delegation is currently on the move in China and there too, with these Green Jobs and the potential that Austria has in research and development in renewable energies, this is a good proof, I believe, that we have carried out the pioneering role of “Raus from the nuclear current and into the new thoughts on renewable energy”. We're on a good way.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17447	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17468	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to start by thanking the SPÖ Group spokesperson in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Hannes Wenningerrichter, who has made the initiative on this all parties comprehensively and has put it to a good conclusion. And I would like to thank all the groups present and represented here very much for being so close to this issue. This closeness of the Austrian National Council is a decisive signal. Why is that so important? – This is so important because there are still many countries within Europe who see nuclear energy as a proficient form of energy in order to reduce the greenhouse effect. They consider nuclear power to be cost-effective and a future strategy. The exact opposite is the case! Austria is driving a clear anti-atom course. Austria is also entering alliances from its tradition and is really trying to bring other nuclear-critical states into the boat to join forces and offensively join forces for a non-atomic Europe. As I am just talking about alliances, I am allowed to report on yesterday's meeting with numerous ambassadors from Latin America. Many of these ambassadors yesterday expressed an offensive and vehement interest in taking initiatives against nuclear power together with Austria. This is also a sign that Austria is really a popular partner in this matter too. The fact that alliances are important can be seen from the current discussion on Hinkley Point, for which the UK has been trying for billions of government bonds to the EU Commission. It has indeed given the green light for it! What does Austria say about this? – Immediately after the decision was taken, Austria has assessed this decision as totally unacceptable and will also bring an action before the European Court of Justice. Energy must be subsidized, yes, if it is renewable energy! But subsidies for nuclear power must be strictly rejected, especially since this would be subsidies for a risk that is incalculable, invincible and, above all, unacceptable to humans, animals and the environment. [[Demonstrative applause with the Stronach team.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many have obviously learned nothing from Chernobyl, from Fukushima. But we all know: We do not want a bright future, neither in Austria nor in Europe, nor worldwide! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17535	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17556	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I am pleased that, I believe, for the first time, a request from the opposition or at least from us Greens has been accepted directly by the Environment Committee, not on the way through all-party negotiations. The request made by my clubwoman Eva Glawischnig and my colleague, Anti-Atom speaker Matthias Köchlzu, to the complaints in the case of Hinkley Point, has received direct consent. I think that is more than justifiable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As an energy speaker of the Greens, I can also gain something positive from all these attempts by the nuclear lobby to obtain subsidies. We see how competitive renewables have now become. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] I do not think that any investment in renewables has ever needed as many subsidies as nuclear power after decades of research and support is still requested and obviously needed. I think that's actually a huge success for the renewables. Nevertheless, it is inconceivable that these days such a thing is still being discussed, that whenever it comes to costing energy customers, they must keep renewables – by the way also here in Austria. And I would simply like to have an honest and objective debate here. I think it is positive that the government will bring this action into line, hopefully also seriously pursue it. But I also have to hold critically: This is now an individual case, which is of course also exemplary, but decisions on important framework conditions will fall in Brussels tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. And if Austria represents a position there at the climate and energy targets, which opens the door and gate to nuclear power, a complaint alone is relatively of little use. As I said, Parliament does not know what the official position of Austria will be for negotiations on the EU's climate and energy objectives by 2030, which Federal Chancellor Faymann will lead in the Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I think it is a political scandal that Parliament, despite Question not being informed of what the government is represented there. We know about detours now. And I can understand why you want to keep this secret, because this is certainly not to be presented in Austria. I have already mentioned that we Greens demand 55 percent reduction in CO2 emissions, 45 percent energy efficiency, 40 percent share of renewable energy. – Unfortunately, the negotiations are far away. This is the Commission's proposal, which reads as follows: 40 CO2 reduction, 30 percent energy efficiency and 27 percent share of renewables, which could be increased to 30 percent. And Austria supports this 27 percent and no more. Germany, for example, uses 30 percent, which is still too little. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Why actually?- Oh, my God!]] For you also to discuss: What does this difference mean between 27 percent and 30 percent? – By 2030, that means exactly 20 HKW blocks of Hankley Point. I can also predict it to you. The difference as to whether we have a share of 27 percent or 30 percent of renewable energy means 248 terawatt hours of energy, if we compare it to an average nuclear power block, 1 600 megawatts of Hankley Point, over the year 12,8 terawatt hours are produced there, then the 20 nuclear power station block is Hankley Point. And this represents Austria tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the European Union. I consider this to be the absolute low point of Austrian environmental policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor Faymann will drive tomorrow. Mr Minister, I urge you to do the last possible thing to change this position of Austria in order to achieve at least 30 percent of renewables for the objective. We now need a European Union decision for the success of the Climate Change Conference, an ambitious decision for a global climate agreement next year. I ask you to do that. But we also need an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17627	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17648	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In November 1978, the Austrian people said no to the TKW Zwentendorf. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Why not 30 percent?]] In 2011, the Austrian Federal Government adopted an action plan for an international rethinking from nuclear energy to renewable energy and energy efficiency. And today? – Today, the Austrian National Council adopts detailed points in the form of a six-party application for implementation of this strategy. The reason for this is that the British government intends to grant state aid to the Hinkley Point nuclear power station, which was declared permissible by the EU Commission. Today's decision is therefore binding and underlines the decisions taken so far. We don't want any cars in Austria. We don't want any cars in Europe. And we don't want any cars around the world. And that's good! The objectives of this action plan will still call for all of us, on the one hand, in international negotiations, on the other hand in Austria, when it comes to increasing energy efficiency when it comes to renewable energies, when it comes to new technologies need to be further developed, and even if we want to implement new projects. Many questions are still open here. I can assure you that we will face these challenges together. And, Mrs. Brunner, we'll be successful together. On this path, I wish us all the best, all the best. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17683	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17704	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I would like to start with a quote: ‘Whoever opposes the market is punished by the market.’ That's what the "Eiserne Lady" Maggie Thatcher said, and that's quite well suited to the current debate. I can imagine her turning around in the grave, if it knows how nuclear power is currently being promoted in the UK with fixed tariffs at 35 years. This has nothing to do with the market economy at all if nuclear power is promoted by the triple market price per guaranteed feed-in tariffs. We agree on this. And we can be proud today that we have a great consensus in the House on both requests that all six parties are largely in agreement. This is not a matter of course, one must honestly say, if one looks around in Europe and sees what is happening in other countries. When one sees that nuclear reactors are being built in Finland and that the project is already heavily debated with cost excesses, when one sees what is planned in Hungary, where billions of credits from Moscow are being expanded, when one sees what is happening all around – even in Belarus just recently a 10 billion dollar credit to expand nuclear power in Belarus – then one knows that Austria is quite alone in this issue and we really have to make a real effort to advance nuclear exodus across Europe. The more crucial it is today to have this unanimous consensus, and the more I am pleased as a green anti-atom speaker. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is it about nuclear power? – In the field of nuclear power, we finally have a debate – many have not fully understood – between central and decentralised, namely a debate between a central supplier, monopoly, also market power and decentralised solutions, in which we can get 2 million photovoltaic plants on the roof around the same money that a reactor is built in Belarus. That's actually the fight. And it is also the debate between the decentralised solutions of the citizens and the state power. If you look at Germany where you need the police for all Castor transports, then this has something to do with it. We are more committed to solutions in which citizens need to generate energy themselves and not protect the state power with police equipment. We have not only seen the problems with nuclear power since Chernobyl and then also at Fukushima. Fukushima is very critical in that the population density in Japan is about 40 times more people suffer, around 40 times more people are affected, because Japan is densely populated. And if you see that a high-tech nation like Japan has a huge problem with it and if you finally clean up the dirt there, you become very thoughtful. Many may not yet know who is at the end of Japan to clear away the dirt. It is often rental workers who are addressed by the Japanese mafia – because they are actually in the truest sense of the word homeless – directly at the parking areas and brought from there to Fukushima. They live in mass quarters with up to 2,000 people, clear away the radiant garbage, with masks – which has looked very good on the photo – which in reality are flu protection masks, and in protective suits, where it is often not possible for hours to take a glass of water, despite the heat problems – because you finally work in the reactor area. So these are the most unworthy of human conditions. There are now new terms such as “nuclear Gypsy” – disposable workers. That's something cynical you have to imagine. People are really exploited for 88 € a day. These people get 12 000 yen paid to clear away the radiant garbage – 88 € a day for this dirty work! However, it is now known that the same or similar conditions are also present in France or Germany. In the meantime, there is a whole army of people moving from nuclear power plant to nuclear power plant as rent workers, for hunger wages, partly for 1 000 € per month in France, partly really with cleaning cloths and in radiant areas, and who are self-interested in removing the radiation meter, because, if they have exceeded the maximum annual dose, they become unemployed. This is the system of this corrupt, mafia nuclear economy. That is why we as Parliament must be all the more proud of the fact that we have achieved this six-party agreement today. Thank you once again from this point on to the thousands of people who are currently clearing away the nuclear waste worldwide, who are preventing worse, and who are taking the risk of their health. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17780	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not say a word of closing. We come to the vote, first on item 7 of the agenda, the resolution on the future without nuclear power attached to the Committee's report 278 – the Europe-wide R & D exit! I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 45.) Vote on item 8, the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 279 of the Supplements concerning legal action against State aid for nuclear power stations in the context of the EU Commission's competitive assessment of the Hankley Point project. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E 46.) [[18:31:55]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 60/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Hauser, colleagues in relation to the long-term increase in National Park funding (280 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17847	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17874	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thematic change: from nuclear power to natural power. I had the opportunity to give a brief guest game in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on a subject that was discussed and discussed at my initiative. The aim is to increase funding for the national parks or in the case of the Hohe Tauern National Park, because this funding by the federal government has remained the same since 1992 – which is at least 22 years. No inflation adjustment for 22 years nominal means that this represents a real loss of at least 50 percent of the funding amount. And that's natural. It is a sum which cannot be made so easily in the regions concerned. You must not forget the following: The national parks of our influence – not only the Hohe Tauern National Park, but also the national parks in Austria in general – are also habitat and economic space for the affected population, wherever the population lives, have to earn income and, of course, have to cope with these conditions. In principle, a national park is an extremely positive institution, which is also appreciated by most of the population. But, once again, we must not forget that it is the habitat of the population affected there, which is also associated with certain non-uses. That's easy to see. These exemptions for certain economic developments have also been paid accordingly in the past. It is also made throughout Austria with great pictures – for example, the eagles in the Hohe Tauern National Park – always tourist advertising for Austria abroad and domestically. So, of course, the national parks are generally a wonderful landscape for tourism advertising. What's the problem now? . I think that the Committee has reached broad agreement on the fact that the National Park is a positive institution that it can be useful. But with that the commonness ceases. I could not achieve that the National Park funds have been adapted – once again, since 1992 no value adjustment, no valorization. However, I hope that a joint initiative to increase funding for all national parks in Austria will be on fertile soil in the future. Under the rule it's me, we don't care where the money comes from. It is important that in the future the necessary money is also available for the affected population in the national parks, so that you can also manage in the living room, in the National Park economic area. So I'm gonna hold on to it again. The task of the National Parks is now a considerable one. It is, starting from nature-saving tourism, through the conservation and maintenance of the cultural landscape, through education – which is becoming increasingly important – the cultural sector, science and research, the protection of nature and public relations, a huge area that is now covered by national national administrations. This requires the necessary financial donations. Finally, one last comment must be made: Unfortunately, God’s support has not been valorized since 1992. The Hohe Tauern National Park has achieved the same amount of funding since 1992, which the country of Tyrol, the Federal Government and the European Union have been spending on certain project financing, with at least €100 000 from the country of Tyrol last year. – For the national parks, the country of Tyrol has gone ahead with a positive example. Finally, I hope – Mr Minister, we had a constructive discussion today – that we will succeed in achieving an increase in financial resources for all national parks in Austria in the future, so that income can continue to be generated in the national parks for the affected population.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17933	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e17956	Mr President. Minister! Above all, dear representatives of the municipality of Bad Traunstein at the gallery, welcome to Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Visitors at the galleries waver to the speaker.]] From his point of view, Mr Hauser's request to increase the funding for the Hohe Tauern National Park – he lives in this region, he is mayor in this region – is quite legitimate. I also think it is positive that he is committed to this area. However, one has to say: Much has happened in the area of national parks in recent years. Since I see Niki Berlakovich right now, I would like to mention three or four points. A sustainability strategy has been drawn up between the Federal Government and countries, which in fact means nothing but enhanced cooperation, especially in the three areas of education, research and innovation. A roof mark has been created across all national parks, called the National Parks of Austria. This is primarily about a common appearance and the efficient use of resources of these national parks. As a third point, the National Park Ranger training has also been harmonised and optimised. This means that guests and tourists in the National Park are optimally cared for by uniformly trained staff in these national parks. I repeat once again my complete understanding of Gerald Hauser, who made this request, but it is always about financial conditions. Yes, it is true that the funding has never been increased in recent years. But you can turn it around: The funding for the National Parks has never been shortened by the federal side in recent years. And I can imagine that, having had contact with the country of Tyrol, the budget 2015/16 at least on the Tyrolean side for the Hohe Tauern National Park may be slightly adjusted – increased –. The funding of the European Union budget period – which has been confirmed by Minister Rupprechter in the Committee – has been increased in favour of the national parks when it comes to the 2014 to 2020 budget period. Moreover, from my point of view, it makes no sense to pick out the Hohe Tauern National Park and then give it a promotion. If so, you have to do this for the seven national parks in Austria. However, we all know the budgetary framework, the budgetary situation that is currently in our hands, and therefore we will not join this request and reject it. Again: The proposal itself is quite legitimate. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18008	Next word: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18030	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr. Rauch is perfectly right when he says: This applies not only to the Hohe Tauern National Park, colleague Hauser, but to all national parks. We have today tabled an appropriate proposal, a motion for a resolution which we are calling for to be debated; it is also distributed as far as I know. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely about the fact that the national parks are also affected by the Austrian environmental movement, civil society, the Expectation of citizens over 20, 25, is now being initiated, implemented and has also become a success story for 30 years. I am thinking, for example, of the Donau-March-Thaya-Auen National Park, of Hainburg, the resistance there, of the Calc Alps in Upper Austria, of the Hohe Tauern. These are successful projects, which, as my colleagues have already said, are also of economic importance. Some products even advertise to be from a national park region. This is also very important in the area of tourism. Federal Minister! What about the new rural development programme? – Yes, there would also be funding for national parks and are also promoters in this programme. Mr Federal Minister, I believe that we already have to look at what the criticism of the European Union is. There are 176 very critical questions from the Commission, and Members have not yet answered them. For example, the Commission says quite clearly about Natura 2000 and the measures to: There are no land targets and no budgeting in your programme submitted in Brussels. – This is currently under negotiation. At the moment, the final negotiations are taking place. Today we have heard: It is €1.1 billion a year, and there are also funds for nature conservation, for the national parks, including Natura 2000. We want to make further improvements in this programme area, Mr Federal Minister. Are you ready to do that? The loss of biodiversity is not only a problem in Austria, but is a very crucial issue worldwide, which we must actively devote ourselves to, if I assume that the possibilities of this programme are the promotion of the activities of national parks, including Natura 2000 areas, also of nature conservation measures, for example, the promotion of organic farming. Mr Rupprechter, you have not yet been willing to provide any information on whether you are willing to expand organic farming. The European Commission has made very critical comments on the 176 issues, and it is time for you to take them seriously. Mr Umweltminister! These are effective measures, and these are non-bureaucratic measures. We therefore call for: sufficient disbursement and valorisation of resources for the national parks, € 200 million more for environmental and climate protection measures in rural development – yes, that is possible by re-implementing investment promotions – clear land targets for organic farming. 750 000 hectares in Austria – that would be a real alternative, an active policy for the protection of biodiversity. We want concrete simplifications of overly complex measures that you or the Chambers of Agriculture or whoever is responsible for in the ministry. The Commission has also strongly criticised this. After the almendeaster, the next disaster, namely the single tree digitization disaster and chaos with the single element digitization threatens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Mrs Fekter, it is really a question of digitizing a single tree, i.e. taking a digital view. That's just completely overlaid. We want to change that too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister, act! Explain You today to the House how far the negotiations are, and finally let the honourable Member know what you have answered to the EU Commission about these 176 questions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18105	The motion for a resolution, tabled by Mr Pirklhuber and presented in his broad outlines, which has now been distributed, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18213	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18235	Mr President. Values Representatives of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are discussing today the motion for a resolution on the allocation of funds to the Hohe Tauern National Park. Conservation and protection of nature and the environment have always been of great tradition and importance in Austria. We have in Austria, and this is known, six national parks, of which two are cross-border, one of which is the National Park Neusiedler See – Seeshop. 16 percent of the total state area is protected, as a nature park, and is subject to a general national park protection function and is also a protected area of Europe. All activities in the national parks are governed by the National Park Act. There is no community, no property, no land that does not have the appropriate say in the establishment of a national park. There are also management plans for all national parks. I can mention that the National Park Act and also the management plans will be evaluated. I also support the fact that the financial donation for the national parks – for everyone, not just for one, but for everyone – will be subject to an evaluation of at least an inflation adjustment. I should like to mention that in the 2014 budget, which we decided here in the House in May, there are 12,5 million euros at national level for national parks and biodiversity activities. Furthermore, with regard to the new rural development programme for the new funding period 2015 to 2020, some €15 million is available. Here, too, the national parks have the opportunity to submit appropriate projects via the LEADER programme to the local action groups. It is therefore necessary to take an initiative of its own. The national parks also create jobs, secure jobs. This is particularly important for less-favoured rural regions. Value added particularly for these regions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, and this has been a tradition for decades, all the local authorities, whether that is the federal government, the countries or the municipalities, are doing a lot to preserve nature and an intact environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This benefits the people and our tourists, who come to the country very many times. This will remain the same in the future and is a challenge for us, and will continue to provide an intact environment for natural management in the national parks. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18289	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18310	Mr President. High house! We have discussed very thoroughly the request made by Mr Hauser in the Committee on the Environment. I think that some kind of misunderstanding we have already been able to clear out, even in the conversation we have held today. This has been very agreeable. I would just like to say that, in spite of a very restrictive budget in all the areas of my section and a very tight budget, I should like to say that I should like to say that it is only for the sake of completeness that, despite a very restrictive budget, it is for me in all areas of my department and a very narrow budget. Korsets was also important for the coming years and it is a great concern for me not to put active savings or budget cuts in the budgets for the national parks. Since the beginning of the current funding period of the Austrian rural development programme, since 2007 to 2013, the Tirol National Park Fund Hohe Tauern has been able to finance additional EU funds in the form of project funding of a total of €900 000 exclusively by my predecessor's federal funds. The rural development programme also triggered around €370 000 for cross-country species protection projects exclusively through federal funds, for example for the conservation of the Gypaetus barbatus, the beard vulture. The cross-border cooperation of the three shares of the Hohe Tauern National Park is funded by my department with an annual cost of around €220 000, of which Tirol benefits by about a third. In the next planning period for the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, as Mr Preiner has just described, I was able to achieve a significant increase in EU funding for the promotion of Austrian national parks and will make them available for high-quality projects, such as the co-existence with the large carnivores or the large predators, predators, which, by the way, also make a very significant contribution to biodiversity. I just had a very detailed debate in Beijing, yesterday evening, with the President of the World Conservation Union, IUCN. You know this very well, Mr Pirklhuber. On the accusation by Mr Pirklhuber that he did not know the answers to the 176 questions raised by the European Commission on our rural development programme, I should like to say the following: At the end of July and at the beginning of September, we held a meeting with the agricultural speakers of the parliamentary groups, in which I have been very detailed about the questions and also the answers to questions, and you know very well, Mr Pirklhuber, the only political speaker who was not present, that was the one of the Greens, that was you. [[Call the ÖVP:Oye! That doesn't look good!]] Furthermore, I should like to point out that we have held a very detailed debate in the Committee on Agriculture. I therefore reject your statement that the House, that the Members of Parliament do not know our answers to the 176 questions, is the most decisive because it lacks any basis. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Are you an environmental minister or not? Are you responsible or not?]] I'm appealing to you: Do not take this course of fundamental opposition, which your group has obviously taken in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18371	Next word: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18392	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! - No, I'm gonna put that up. [[Call the ÖVP: Put on glasses!]] As far as the Greens' motion for a resolution is concerned, we have two problems. But I should also like to say to the Minister: I was in the committee, but I did not get 176 answers. Perhaps I was in another committee, at least he called it a Committee on Agriculture and the Environment. The problem is that we are already discussing all day long, because we are voting in the choir of the toothless if Natura 2000 remains a country issue. So we can do little to help, even if we agree to your request here, and that is not possible at the moment. Yeah, right now we are. The NEOS, and you know that, have many same opinions in this regard. We support future-oriented and environmentally-friendly agriculture, and in this respect we are on the road very well together. In your application a lot of questions are raised, many individual applications are inside – similar to a bunch of herb and beet. This is not to be resolved in a horuck action today, and we cannot therefore now agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18429	Next word: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18450	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Three brief comments on Mr Hauser's request. I would like to say a few words about the commonness, the tourism and the national accounting court of Tyrol. I was surprised that support is only required for the Tyrolean part of this request. It is always very difficult to establish cross-border and cross-border units. It's never easy to do that. And now suddenly the promotion only for one part. If you know that the idea for the common national park was created in 1971, then two federal states joined in 1981 and 1984 and Tyrol only in 1992 then you can see how difficult it was. The Republic is certainly a very big concern for the national parks. One of my previous speakers has already pointed to the common roof of National Park Austria, pointing out that there is a common interest here. The second aspect is that the application also says that tourism could benefit from it. This is, of course, very difficult in practice, because there are also different interests. This was also discussed at the annual meeting of the Austrian National Parks. There is, of course, a conflict of interest between the protection objectives of landscape conservation, the expansion of water and wind power and the development of tourism. In the public work of the National Park Austria project, gentle tourism is promoted, for example in the guide that has been laid down. One is to meet nature, the treasures of nature gentlely. Last: I find the report of the national accounting court of Tyrol very interesting. In its recommendations, the report notes that a lot of air would still be open up at the national park in Tyrol. The report also notes that, in the meantime, the National Park Fund has several institutions and that significant non-bookable assets are owned by it. For the reasons set out above, we cannot accede to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18490	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 280 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues, on sufficient funding for national parks and Natura 2000, nature conservation and biodiversity measures in the context of rural development 2014-2020. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. [[18:58:02]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on Amendment No 666/A(E) by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues, on 'Bürocratie reduction now' (282d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (186 D.B._Other Organiser Economic Partnership Agreements between CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part (283d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (261 e.g._Other Organiser Interim Economic Partnership Agreements between Côte d’Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part (284d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18575	We now come to points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Haubner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18605	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, red tape is our topic, red tape is something we all want. I would like to thank everyone from all political groups for supporting our request. We all have the same goal together, and we need a certain degree of success in order to support our demands accordingly, because the entrepreneurs are moaning under regulations, under bans and under barriers. As a legislator, we are also required to present reliefs. I also say quite critically: If we decide new laws every day, we certainly always mean something good with it, because it is supposed to move something. But if you look at the practice, it is a fact that the good news doesn't always bring the desired success. That is why we have put forward this initiative that we support the Federal Government in its programme of red tape reduction and that we have made a request from Parliament. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Surveys show that this redundancie is what the companies are most bothering – of course, in addition to high taxes and taxes, but that is another thing. I think we can move something together at red tape. That's why we're proposing. There are many examples in this area. I don't need to list them all for those in the economy. For example, there would be the transporter who has to drive a carriage through the area and distribute the gravel just on the axes. If this gets confused while driving, he has an axle load check and then it is found that there are problems, then he has to do so. pay the penalty. I think that's a little bit overlaid. That is why we need to remedy the various areas. Of course, there are also penalties for late notification of staff to the local health insurance fund. There is a problem in the monthly evaluation of the workplace that it is carried out on a permanent basis. I think we simply have many examples of areas where we can move something by curbing this flood of regulations. We made this a program. I think it is good that, I believe, all parties support our initiative. If we bring something together in the red tape, this will also help entrepreneurs and thus also workers. Because the best business can do is to manage and do something, and we should not limit them too much. It is also gratifying that the government decided yesterday on the Council of Ministers to facilitate the recording of working hours and breaks. I think that's the right way. Our aim is to allow companies more time for what they can best do, namely create jobs, generate growth and maintain prosperity in our country. That's why: Less bureaucracy brings more freedom. In this respect, thank you for supporting our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18659	Mr Matznetter was next spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18681	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is clear that there must always be a wealth of rules in a civilized country. The problem is just: The majority of all of our enterprises we have in the country today are small and small enterprises. Often enough, our regulations are such that we introduce something that is well meant. For a large holding, it is not a problem then, but in the majority of the farms this must be fulfilled sometime at night, possibly by the farmer or the farmer. And in truth, it is a requirement for bureaucracy that is not in relation to what the operation could actually do if it did not meet that. Many of our micro and micro-enterprises crack like the emperor's collectors under the bureaucratic effort. Really! [[Consenting Nicken des Abg. Peter Worm.]] I have earned two decades as a tax advisor by taking away many of these things from the clients. And I'll tell you, too. When you issue the honorary note, you actually leave something behind because you don't know if you can afford it at all. Much of it is useless and pointless from the point of view of the farmer or owner. I therefore believe that such a measure – which has already happened in many small areas in recent years – is the right one, that is to say, reducing this bureaucratic effort using the IT capabilities. I have to report on the progress made in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] No, I'm a witness to that. When I became tax advisor at the age of 26, everything was done with hand forms. Every single report had to be made elsewhere. Today, through FinanzOnline, we have created a wealth of opportunities to significantly reduce this. A lot has happened. [[Abg. Stefan: Go, go, go!]] Mr Notar said that he himself had a significant reduction in the bureaucratic burden by means of electronic commerce. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that you are going along. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We are doing something really good for the companies. It is not a simple project, and we will do everything we can to continue along this path with a wealth of legislative changes. In this context, I am looking forward to the cooperation between the government parties. These were the incontrovertible points we had. I believe that Austria still has a long way ahead that will bring a lot of things. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz.]] Very briefly to the two other points: I am glad that in the CARIFORUM State Agreement we have come to know this essential principle that mixed agreements are to be ratified in Parliament. In the light of our discussion on TTIP in particular, where the Commission may feel that it would be a purely trade agreement, we say: Joint agreements are included here. And we will once again intensify our position, which we have in the joint motion for a resolution. If there is to be a free trade agreement with the United States, it must be ratified here in Parliament, as well as this agreement with the Caribbean States. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18741	Mr Themessl spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18763	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing before: We will agree to the request because we agree to any red tape reduction. Any initiative that reduces the burden on entrepreneurs will receive our consent. On the contrary, over the last six years – and it has become blatant with the outbreak of the financial and economic crisis – we have repeatedly submitted our own applications, which were, however, a little more precise than those of you. Mr Haubner and Mr Matznetter, if I read your motion for a resolution in this way, I must ask you: Do you have absolutely no confidence in your own government? [[Abg. Haubner: Full, full!]] If you call on the government to speed up the red tape reduction, it sounds like a slight joke, because in the government programme of this Federal Government there are many, much more points to red tape than you are proposing here. And if you now demand the government to push it forward quickly, that means: You have now had relatively little confidence in this government during the first year of this government, in which it is in office, because it obviously does not agree with your support for red tape. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have repeatedly submitted applications to many things in recent years and we know that many things in this area are like a construction site. Mr Matznetter, that the Austrian economy is mainly made up of micro and small businesses, we do not know only since yesterday. We have known this for decades, because it has actually grown in Austria. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] That this is the case in the United Kingdom, Over the past few years, it has not improved, but has worsened, is also quite clear. Ask a small or small business operator what problems he has to deal with. You'll wonder what you'll get for the answer. We have always pointed out that there has been nothing done in the last few years in the field of operational transfers. Operating permits have not been adjusted. The trade order is still a construction site, nothing is done. The number of officers in the companies, even if the attempt to reduce them has now been made, is still far too high. We know that the approaches you have had that were well meant, such as the craftsman bonus, have exactly the opposite of what you want to achieve with your application today. The craftsman bonus did not provide for red tape, but caused additional bureaucracy of 600 €. This has led to the fact that the craftsman bonus is already a pipe-creper, because only 40 percent of the funds have been used up to date; because no one wants to do this bureaucratic effort for a promotion of 600 €. Then he can make it “black” as before. There he has the same potential for savings and has no effort. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] That sounds so simple, and that's exactly what I'm telling you, it's going to be done in practice – unfortunately. With the wage tax reduction you have taken a good step, because you have reduced the additional wage costs by 0.2 percent. Do you know what your chairman is doing in the Chamber of Commerce of Vorarlberg, the representative of the industry, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Christoph Hinteregger – that is the head of the company Doublemayr – has said? In order to create more jobs in a sustainable way, it requires a reduction in additional wage costs of 5 to 10 percent. That is to say, the Federal Government had a number of very good approaches in its government proposal or in its government programme by 2018, only to implement it. For six years we've always heard the same thing. It seems that the representatives of the government parties know very well where it is happening or where it is missing, but it is also in favour of implementation, and the implementation does not come about. I'm excited when she's coming. You always have our voice when it comes to red tape, when it comes to facilitating small and micro-enterprises who have been around for decades and not just since yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18821	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18843	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to Mr Haubner and Mr Matznetter today, you might think they are both representatives of parties who have been in the opposition for years and decades, and not those who have so to speak been sitting on the government levers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] That is why today's request is really rare, because an initiative by representatives of the government parties is going to call on the government to finally become active. But from the principle it is a wise request, so we will support it. Of course, it is necessary to move ahead with the red tape, to unravel the trade order, and there are many, many examples of this. For example, the "Ku- ==References== June 2014 on the issue of red tape quotes that the bureaucracy costs the Vienna companies to €1.2 billion. ==References====External links== May 2013 shows the example of a young entrepreneur who is fighting and quoted with the chamber state in Austria: “I’m about to go out of breath.” – This entrepreneur conducts a cake business. And then we're going to go on: “The craft baker is one of more than 80 regulated trades in Austria. Say: Without trained confectioner, there are problems.” These are absurdities, here you have to remedy and take the appropriate steps. Of course, it is important to shape the framework conditions in such a way that they are not prevented and hindered, but that they are made possible and strengthened, and that is what is long overdue. The bureaucracy and the trade order are currently a milestone among companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, the EPUs and the start-ups, so this is long overdue. We'll see that at the rankings. For example, in the Doing Business Report, Austria is 138. When it comes to the question of how long it takes for someone to make the way into self-employment; that is, until everything is done, from the commercial application, the registration into the trade register to the tax matters. This is far above the European average. These are also examples that clearly highlight the need for action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] Nevertheless, I would also like to give a positive example in this context. At the initiative of the President of the Council, we have an exhibition entitled “Digital Austria in Parliament 2014”. And one of the examples of the Ministry of Finance is the e-calculation, which is more and more established and, for example, has already brought the federal government a savings of €4.5 million. I know a lot of companies that welcome this very much. What they do not welcome is the payment morale of the public hand, which usually carries it very away. There is also a need for action. Ladies and gentlemen! We are happy to help the ÖVP and the SPÖ on this issue, and of course we will support the request for the reduction of bureaucracy, for the shattering of the trade regulations in this form today and will have an accurate and keen eye on how quickly and quickly this is actually implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18916	Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur spoke. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e18937	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! As we know, we in Austria unfortunately have a sad record unemployment. There are as many people without work as never before. Good jobs in the private sector are the most important in the country. The State cannot take care of all and employ all at taxpayers' costs. The State must create a framework for entrepreneurship. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, our government and, in particular, the EU almost always do exactly the opposite, and I would like to give you three examples: The first is the excessive bureaucracy, the second is the lack of funding for businesses, and the third is the anti-performance policy that now wants to drive the last industrialists from Europe through CO2 certificates. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: But go, Mrs. Colleague!]] Now, I'm glad there's a red tape package. It could be more ambitious, but in the need the devil eats flies, and we will, of course, support that. It's not far enough. We are thinking of the rules of commerce, of the calculation of wages, of the Member State of the Chamber of Force. We think this is particularly up-to-date, also to our host operators, to whom the EU-Kochtopf inspectors now salt the soup together with the Austrian Federal Government. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Peter Worm.]] According to one study, 80 percent of Austrian executives believe that the bureaucratic environment has deteriorated over the past five years. That means, I'm very grateful to the government that there's still a lot of work in front of you, even if you're now going to say goodbye to this package. Second topic, financing for entrepreneurs: 92 percent of the managers surveyed in the same study indicate that investments have been prevented or delayed or delayed in the last five years. This is primarily because the EU has adopted Basel III and Austria, as always, takes all nonsense without criticism and, of course, also implements model schooling in Austria. The US has not even implemented Basel II. They're not so stupid that they're killing their own companies. This seems to be particularly good for Europeans. In fact, Basel III is a huge bureaucracy and expense for our banks, which, through the new regulations, can hardly yet be granted, and if, then, especially expensive, loans can be granted. Those who really believe that it is the banks that pay the bank tax probably also believe that insurance taxes and breweries pay the alcohol tax. No, ladies and gentlemen, we know that, in the end, everything pays, of course, to taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] But how can one now see that one comes to capital for entrepreneurs, especially for young entrepreneurs? Austria is a country with one of the highest savings ratios worldwide. The savers, and this is primarily pensioners, but they are constantly suffering a real purchase value loss, and on this loss they also have to pay capital income tax – actually rather absurd. And the purpose of the exercise is that the sovereign debt that this red-black government has continuously built up over years. This broken, constantly losing capital on the savings books should be better used. There should be an alternative. That is why we say: It must be favoured if it is invested in non-listed companies. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] This helps investors, which helps entrepreneurs, especially young entrepreneurs who are hard to reach because Austrian companies are notorically undercapitalised. Austrian companies are typically low in their own capital. And why are they own capital weak? It's not because they're in a bad way, but because the eaty state's actually bullying everything away from them. And if you have too little equity, you also find it very difficult to get credit. That is, it's a diabolic cycle in which many entrepreneurs are in here. When it comes to financing companies, we see how absurd our government is actually thinking, because debt making is rewarded taxly. That is, if you take up capital, make debt, then you can, of course, deduct it from the tax, while building up equity is taxed. Therefore, our demand: We need a functioning equity market in Austria! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My last point is that the environment, which is very important to all of us. We all breathe the same air and drink the same water. But first, the economy needs to work, and then you can also protect the environment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Europe and, of course, Austria seem to be heading towards a new recession. All economic data show down, and precisely in this climate, there is now a climate change summit in Brussels. In my opinion, an economic summit on the reduction of EU bureaucracy or the fight against record unemployment would have been more effective and failed than now to threaten our entrepreneurs and industrialists with further CO2 certificates. [[Abg. Brunner: Buy the too!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: Money can't be breathed and drunk!]] Environmental protection is very important, but now that we have the biggest world economic crisis since the Second World War and this is not over for a long time, I believe it is the completely wrong way to put the industry in additional chains. [[Abg. Brosz: We freeze this with climate warming, in the meantime!]] It would probably be most environmentally friendly if we were to lock up the whole EU, stop the operation of the industry as a whole, remove traffic, then the 10 percent of global CO2 emissions coming from the EU would probably be gone. [[Abg. Lightenecker: But go!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: We have more modern ideas!]] But if our companies then produce elsewhere because they have to, this would put more CO2 emissions into the world, and that is little targeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19085	Mr Schellhorn has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19107	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Peter Haubnerist, I think, fled. [[Abg. Lightenecker: No, no! He's here anyway!]] - Oh, that's it. He's already sitting there. The last time Mr Matznetter fled the committee. According to the instructive words of Mr. Rasinger, as the NEOS give themselves after a year, I must say: Respect for the fact that I congratulate you on this fresh request! [[Abg. Amon:! He can't defend himself!]] We will agree. He is also young and fresh, just as your party is in the government. I thought you were having breakfast with the Kasperl when I read the request. What prevents you from making ÖVP and SPÖ a form of bureaucrat? What prevents you from doing so? What have you not done so far? [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] You've been in the government for 10 100 days, you've been sitting in the government since 2007, and you haven't brought anything further and have no place at all, you've just made a few requests, and I think that's pathetic. I believe that you are depriving the citizens and the entrepreneurs of this country. It does not prevent you from reforming anyone, and it excites me as an entrepreneur, what you're doing here. What is it about? Can anyone explain to me why you don't bring in a form of bureaucrats? Why Make You don't? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] For these reasons, I have to say quite honestly: I even believe that this is a call for help from the Economic Union and a call for help from the S & D Economics Association, because you are no longer going through your political groups, because the standstill in that country is so far away that you yourself – those who are supposed to represent the entrepreneurs in their political groups – are not going through at all and are now making this request as the government party Red and Black. I find that embarrassing. And I find it embarrassing that I am an entrepreneur that you are making a request for trade reform before the summer season. We have heard enough examples. We are now making a proposal to you: Ask the President-in-Office, who is sitting back there, and ask Mr Moser, President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, ask the former President of the Court of Auditors, who likes to sit in a convention inside, in a committee, in a Commission. Ask the following: How can I make one out of nine laws? Why do I need nine Youth Protection Laws? Why do I need nine tourist laws? That's death in this country, that's the standstill you're constantly promoting because you want your country icons and your country princes. Why do we need nine laws on spatial planning? - Not so that we can bring about a form of bureaucrats. You need that, with your country owners. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] As a special chuzpe, I feel it should be said by President Leitl that the bureaucracy sample should be pushed out. – He should begin with the business chamber elections, that he can drive this monster out and bring in transparency: How do elections work! How do I do something? It can be avoided in its own stable. This is always the most successful thing: Start with the others, but not with yourself! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Madam President, unfortunately, Mr Jank is not in here, but is still unanswered: What has become of the Chamber of Economics-Pension speculations? Where do we find out? Where's transparency? – That is why it is important for you to set up a Commission, and that is why it is important that we support this request, but we will knock your fingers on you. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19196	The next item is the report by Mr Mahrer, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19218	Madam President. High house! It is excellent that I can speak on this subject. I would like to start by saying a few words on the subject of responsible policy. I may start with a few basic positions after a few exciting things have been addressed before. Order policy requires policy if it is made right that it also regulates. There can be no regulation-free space in the economy either. Reasonable order policy is a policy that generates as much entrepreneurial freedom as possible, on the other hand has a focus on as much social responsibility as possible and, in the sense of an eco-social market economy, also has a sustainable ecological orientation. The piece of art is to find the right balance in difficult times like this, as the pendulum always beats in one direction or the other. Therefore, in conjunction with all other local authorities, the Federal Government is called upon to reflect on the following: Are the rules that exist today the right ones? Are they still modern? Are they quality? – Because it is not a question of the quantity of the regulations, but of the quality of the regulations. Are the regulations smart, are they correct, are they modern? Let me say, on the basis of my impression from the last Council, that: We are all facing major challenges – and I mean Europe as a whole and not just Austria’s economy – when we think of developments in Industry 4.0. These are developments that all the value chains in all sectors of the economy can totally throw over the pile. The combination of digital telecommunications networks, energy management networks, logistics networks will require us all – I mean the economy, society and politics – a lot. We have already debated this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is necessary to accompany entrepreneurs – and, it has already been addressed, whether they are very small or the very large – in this transformation process and to provide them with relief on the regulatory side. You know that we've been in the 20th century. The first report was presented in September 2014 by the Commission for Reform and Deregulation. The Federal Government has adopted a 30-point package within the framework of the government clause, the “Bürgernah State Action Package”. I could mention a few of the measures, but you know that they range from A to “appropriate family aid” to Z, like civil service procedures. This is just a first step that is necessary. We will introduce smaller packages over and over again in this legislative period. But we have to evaluate first. Certain groups are like me always for evidence-based policies. That means we have to let the facts speak and say what is right and meaningful today and what is no longer. And if we have evaluated this, we will introduce these packages step by step and take action together in the Federal Government, as yesterday, and say: That's to do now! There you can create reliefs for entrepreneurs! The package presented now includes about an annual simplification of €36 million. You can say: Well, it may not be much for the overall economic performance! – But you have to start somewhere. This is mainly a matter of reducing the registration requirements of rest breaks or simplifying the record records. This concerns at least 70 000 jobs. In the case of fixed working hours, the record can be completely lost – at least 1.38 million cases. By the way, this is the largest chunks with a discharge of about €22 million – and, and, and. Therefore, in the spirit of the request: The Federal Government takes this very seriously! The Federal Government acts responsibly, and the Federal Government also feels it is an obligation to continue to do so regularly. We ask the House to measure our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19273	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19294	Thank you very much, Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We are living at a time when agriculture is facing major challenges, and yet we are able to produce quality products for the whole world. They are valued all over the world, and they come from Austria. We'd like to say more about that. Under the European Regulation on the designation of origin, we would like to say: protected geographical indication, protected geographical origin, such as Parma ham, or possibly the Dutch Gouda. There were many products in Austria, wherever that would go. [[Abg. Krainer: Waldviertler potatoes!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Weinviertler Kraut!]] But we have wonderful provisions that make life difficult. That's why: What do we mean? If we want to use this European regulation, because we say to people: Look at where it comes from, then it should be true. And that's what we do very, very precisely in Austria. If someone really wants to use it for himself, then he has to go somewhere and register it. Probably the applicant is an association. Where are you going? – Not to the “Salzamt”, no, to the Patent Office. They're probably responsible for food. That would be the first thing you're thinking about, and it's actually right. In the Federal Ministry of Health one is also responsible for food: There one checks whether what is requested is also semi-serious and in order and whether there should be no additional requirements. Well, they need that in the patent office, because they themselves don't understand anything about it. But you have to draw up a control plan to control the whole thing. This control plan is necessary, because later on there will have to be an accredited control body dealing with it. In order to know if all of this is done and right, you will of course also get comments from other ministries. Who else could be responsible for food? – For example, the Ministry of Agriculture. Right, there's a question. And when you're finally ready, a lot has already happened, that has cost a lot of time and money. Then someone comes up with the idea and says: Well, where's the control station now? – Yes, it has to be accredited. Who's doing that? – This is what the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics is doing. If that had actually happened, it could work. But because this has not yet been done because a legal basis is still missing, there is only a temporary authorisation for two years. But now it's all been more than two years. It has now been abolished, now there is a temporary authorisation without limitation. And: We still need this control body to be accredited. There's still no such thing as that. - That's it. The problem is, if a new one comes up with the idea that he wants something to be protected, for example, then at the beginning he would have to make his control office known, in order to make it easier for them to do so in the Patent Office. But there's no such thing as that, and I can't. And so in Austria, with the protected geographical indication and the protected geographical origin, we have only a few heroic entrepreneurs who have done so, and therefore only 14 products where there is that. For comparison: In France there are 219, in Italy 266 and even in Slovenia they have 20 products. We have 14. At a time when we are proud that we have quality for the whole world, we stop ourselves with such absurd legal divisions. [[Call the Greens: AMA seal!]] [[Abg. Themessl: Who could change that?]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need an intelligent red tape reduction – and we know how it works. [[Call the Greens:Are you the opposition?]] A good protected geographical indication of origin is the Green Veltliner, wine four- tel DAC; this works. And do you know how that works? – We don’t need a ministry, a control station, food inspector, because there’s the basement inspection – and the thing is done. [[Abg. Themessl: Why don't you change that?]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we can bring this together for other areas too, because we already know how it is going. That's why I said to you: Weinviertel DAC, prost, we'll do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19402	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19424	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! As an entrepreneur, I have a very personal perspective regarding red tape reduction. As an entrepreneur, I have to do with it in person almost every day. And as an entrepreneur, I also know that bureaucracy is a hugely important competitive factor. This applies particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises, because too much bureaucracy causes a high amount of time for entrepreneurs and also costs – especially if you no longer see the provisions in front of loud paragraphs. That is precisely what my previous speakers said, especially the smaller undertakings. Summary: bureaucracy is salt in the soup, necessary, but in measure! I am particularly pleased that today we want to find a consensus across the parties that lets us reduce the bureaucracy. The red tape is also part of the government programme, as we all know, because for companies the bureaucratic barriers represent a huge administrative burden to be reduced so that economic, efficient and successful work can be done. As a Social Democratic, I am particularly concerned that the economy can work efficiently, economically and successfully. In summary, this means in the clear text: Deregulation and removal of bureaucratic barriers! An Austrian standard strategy, particularly for SMEs, the continuation of projects to reduce administrative costs, joint training and uniform audit standards, and last but not least the need to force the principle advice instead of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19457	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19478	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I am trying to present something more intrusive than Mr Schellhorn, and at the same time I would like to point out that I fully agree with him in terms of content. I also agree with Mr Matznetter when he notes that many of the regulations we are currently having are useless and pointless and that small and medium-sized enterprises are moaning under bureaucracy. That's what I'm asking myself, though: Who, then, has made the laws and rules that are responsible or that cause SMEs to groan? [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of the representatives of the NEOS.]] We have here, as it were, a self-proclaiming request to reduce the bureaucracy that we will, of course, agree to. What reasonable person does not agree with a request to reduce bureaucracy? This implies, however, the finding that there is too much bureaucracy in Austria, that is, a fact. I would now like to pick up a little more and list some other facts before I come to the procedure, the dramaturgy of this request and the state of the political framework for which you as a government have been responsible for years, for the economic location of Austria. The facts: Since 2006/2007, we have been in the fall of Austrians internationally, in many areas in the fall flight: in the fall of flight, as far as international competitiveness is concerned – free, yes, almost free fall flight. [[Abg. Amon: Free fall flight or what?]] As far as productivity is concerned, as far as innovation dynamics are concerned, we are also clearly proof of this. As far as the research and development rate is concerned, we are not in the fall of flight, because we cannot fly down, but we are starting to be permanently ashamed, at a low level. On the other hand, we are in areas where one does not necessarily like to be world champion or European, world champions and Europeans, namely at the tax rate. World and European champions or at least in the leading field, we are at the state spending ratio. We have an extremely low actual retirement age. We have a very bad quota for those who work between 55 and 65 years of age, which is, of course, expressed in an exploding pension system. We know that we already pay €18 billion per year in total, i.e. a hypodesaster in maximum annual proportion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We don't even have that under control. We have exploding public debt, and we are also world champions in terms of the cost of bureaucracy. Switzerland has a third cheaper economy. [[Abg. Amon: But they have lower pensions!]] I'm wondering now: What to do Is it really about these points, and in particular about bureaucracy? – You are sometimes philosophy about property taxes, and you are asking yourself to do something. We haven't seen anything in action for years. It starts with the 2013 government program, where you announce extensive red tape forms. [[Interlocutory calls from Amon and Schönegger.]] You can read the following very often when you look at this very carefully: We want to set up a Commission, we start a process, we set up an expert group, et cetera. This goes on with a request from the June 2013 Economic Parliament, which you are sure to know, which sounds flowery: “Less bureaucracy, more freedom”. Here, too, the Economic and Social Association is already calling on the Federal Government to reduce red tape, of course, subjugated by the ÖVP economic colleagues, Mr Haubner and Mr Jank. However, it is a little surprising when it comes to showing seriousness when you reject the almost word-identifiable request made by the Freedom Party in April. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I don't understand, you have to explain that to me. [[Abg. Amon: Don't do anything!]] It's no longer clear to me if you ask yourself to cut red tape in October. In addition, the points are much less concrete than the points you have already made in your announcements in the government programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] So what are you doing? – You announce, you ask yourself, you vote against your own calls. Nothing just happens. This is just a conglomerate of empty words, announcements and so-called nebula grenades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: (in the direction of Abg. Kickl) But didn't you write the speech?- Oh, my God!]] The economy is already so desperate that it sends calls for help, you obviously don't care. These are people of the Chamber of Commerce, of the Young Economy and of the Industrial Association, so there are no people who are now absolutely close to FPÖ. President Leitl speaks of the bureaucracy sample, the Young Economy Vienna expects young entrepreneurs to spend more than one day a week on bureaucracy and administrative work on average. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] The Industrial Association is entitled in its October issue: “More money burning? State administration as a barrel without soil.’ On the weekend, the “Kurier” conducted a survey – this one has already been quoted by colleague Nachbaur – with the result that 80 percent of the managers surveyed say that the state of bureaucracy was worse than five years ago. [[Abg. Amon: all managers from the state lights!]] It would be so easy. For years there have been concrete proposals from the Chamber of Economic Trustees, which is that Chamber of Tax Advisors, which, I think, is a little closer to the small and medium-sized enterprises every day, more than some others. They require a uniformization of the basis of social security and wage tax, which require centralization, a collection only by an authority that proposes to the plant finance office, which require a reduction of social security contribution groups from 360 to three, which require a aggregation – which has already been the subject of today – of the local health phone to one to a maximum of three institutions requiring a total reform of fees law. [[Abg. Schönegger: Good idea!]] This is not required by a FPÖ-near institution, but by the Chamber of Economic Trustees, which, as I said, is close to the small and medium-sized enterprises and which very well knows where the shoe is pressing. What are you doing? – You just don't do anything, you announce, you ask yourself. I'm sorry, that's all there is, and that's too little. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] I can announce the pages of the liberals after we had already arrived in September with our colleague DDr. Our tax reduction model has also presented that we will further refine our programme in the economic field and give an even clearer, clearer signal to the economy and the providers of our society. This will be the case at the beginning of next year, because the economy and the service providers are now being abandoned by the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19639	Mr Köchl is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19661	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciate spectators and people in front of the televisions! Estimated bureaucrats! Estimated bureaucrats! It is already somewhat significant that those who have built up bureaucracy in Austria over the last decades are now calling for themselves to eliminate this bureaucracy. [[Congratulations with Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] I think you misinterpreted the word “self-management”, the word “self-management” actually means something else. I was talking to Mrs Windsteig just a few minutes ago, which I would like to greet officially on the TV. She's a small- who operates a small garden, a small store and sells flowers to the hospital in Friesach in Carinthia. Mrs Windsteig needs four business licences. It logically needs a commercial license for gardening and floristics, it sells drinks and cigarettes in addition, so it needs one for the trafic and, because it sells flower fertilizers, also one for the trade in drugstores. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] That's what the Chamber of Commerce prescribes. And in order to set up the entire bureaucracy and what the Chamber of Commerce proposes, a little bit of the i-tüpferl, it must solve the business permit for the cemetery garden for a few months a year, because the other commercial license allows it to sell and place flowers, but not to pour them so to speak. That is, Mrs. Windsteig needs to be added so that she can also pour the flowers, another, a fourth commercial license. – I am only telling you about the economic structure of the ÖVP Chamber. I don't want to do much more. [[Congratulations with Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Another example – we will certainly still accept it, as I will now be quite practical – is the calculation of wages. Performing a wage bill correctly costs, I inquired, 18 to 25 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] What do we do now if, for example, at a small store in Villach – and there are thousands of such shops in Austria – a woman is in the business alone and sometimes has the need of a representation, for example, because she wants to visit the grandmother in the hospital, or needs to pick up the children from the kindergarten, and would like to ask the girlfriend to put herself in the shop for an hour? – It's not possible, it's not registered, it's just a problem. That is to say, there is currently no legal solution to perhaps organize a representative for an hour in the circle of friends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Of course, you can register for the wage calculation, which costs 25 €. I would like to suggest that you can think of something, perhaps something similar to the slightly muttered service check. There's something you need to think about. [[Subsequent calls by Amon and Schönegger.]] – Please don’t always talk in between! We are not in the ÖVP club, I have already made you aware of that, estimated ÖVP! [[Congratulations with Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] It is important to me now that we have wage accounting, financing and also this Chamber of Commerce. Because the NEOS today also make an application that is more or less heading towards abolishing the Chamber of Commerce: Unfortunately, we will not be able to agree to this for a very simple and banal reason, and I would like to explain that. You have not yet put forward a better proposal who should represent the self-employed if not the Chamber of Commerce, and you also have to say to your demand that the one-person companies should be able to leave the Chamber of Commerce, that is exactly what the Chamber of Commerce wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] The one-person companies pay relatively little of the economic chamber contributions, which the big ones pay, but once they went to the election, they would have the great majority in the Chamber of Commerce, so the one-person companies would actually be a huge power. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] And if you want to abolish the Chamber of Commerce from NEOS now, I'll ask you what's next: Then, when the Chamber of Labour comes, does the high school come in? – So the request is even more thoughtful. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19774	Mrs. Dr.ck has now come to the fore. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19795	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am now a little surprised by Mr Köchl's speech, because the Greens are world champions in Golden Plating, and in terms of consumer protection, they always see the consumer as an unmistakable citizen who needs to be protected from entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: Not at all, Mrs. Colleague! Who are you talking about?]] The issue of the Chamber of Commerce has perhaps not fully understood that we are a minority of entrepreneurs and therefore we need a strong representation of interests, a vote and not a two-, three- or four-class society. The Chamber of Commerce is a solidarity community in which small enterprises receive the same benefits as large enterprises. Small enterprises often cannot even afford the benefits they need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But true to the motto ‘less is more’, we can certainly invest more time and energy in innovation, research and development, thus also creating more jobs and increasing our productivity if we reduce bureaucratic barriers. With this request, we support our government, our State Secretary and our Minister for Economic Affairs, who have prepared a package of measures of 33 individual measures for the tangible discharge of citizens and businesses. This package includes not only measures already adopted in the Council of Ministers, but also simplifications in the investment procedure, the extension of the exemption from approval, the facilitation of the commercial application, but also the reduction of publication obligations. That's a first package. There's still more to follow. Mr Haubner has already done so, and it is also important to implement the transparency database, the field of effect of work inspectors, and to review standards and regulations on SMEs' suitability. Mr Mitterlehner, Minister for Economic Affairs, also promised to put the debureaucratisation platform back online, because only in this way can debureaucratisation packages be designed in practice. Only if we manage to create an entrepreneurial climate through red tape can and want to invest companies and are also young people willing to go the way into self-employment. That is why the motto of Mr. State Secretary and our Minister of Economic Affairs is "housesight instead of office". And we fully support that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19836	Mr Kirchgatterer came to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19857	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are all concerned with the reduction of red tape, which is a very necessary and urgent issue. It would have been very wise to discuss this subject alone. That's not the case. Mr Mahrer, I would ask you to separate the issues next time. We are negotiating three agenda items under one, in addition to red tape, the Economic Partnership Agreements between Austria and the EU and the Caribbean and with the West African country of Ivory Coast. I would like to make a brief contribution to this because this issue is very important. On the one hand, as Mr Matznetter has already mentioned, we are voting on these agreements in the European Parliaments. This is very important in terms of democracy. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that, when we think of the Caribbean or West Africa, when we see the pictures of the children there, the joy of life that they sprung, the very natural joy of life, also raises the questions: What will happen to these children once they have grown up? What training do they receive in their country? What is the health system in these countries? The Economic Partnership Agreement is therefore necessary because it expires so far. It brings improvements, it includes combating poverty, it also includes environmental standards and social standards. These are also important points. With regard to ivory coast, it is worth mentioning that the neighboring country Liberia is fighting with the deadly disease Ebola. More than 4,000 people have already died of this disease. And for decades there has been a dependence on a single economic factor, namely the market of cocoa and coffee. The country is dependent in this area. So these are issues that Europe must also be interested in. The reason why all the parties voted in the Committee is that these agreements are constantly being evaluated, are always being sought improvements and, of course, is also seen to ensure that the objectives of poverty reduction, environmental standards and labour standards are respected or improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19900	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19921	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My previous speaker has already dealt with Agenda items 11 and 12. These are economic agreements with the so-called CARIFORUM states in the Caribbean and an economic agreement with Côte d’Ivoire, the Ivory Coast. In principle, I can only say that we are in favour of these agreements, because any removal of barriers to trade can, of course, be supported. However, I have noticed in the discussion of these agenda items, particularly with regard to the economic agreement with the CARIFORUM States, that it was already on 31 December. ==References====External links== This agreement has been in force since the 29th century. ==References== That is, for six years – I do not know why, but for six years – we have had time here in Parliament to ratify this agreement. In other words, for six years it was somewhere in a right-hand room. After a question in the Committee, I have received the answer that 16 out of 28 countries have ratified this agreement, including the Federal Republic of Germany – which is a significant part of it – as the EU's major economic engine. This could lead to the conclusion that the national parliaments do not care about this agreement at all, they are doing everything that suits them. If you do not ratify such simple agreements in good time: What is it like to have more important agreements? – I am now thinking, for example, of the ESM treaties, where we also have a change to discuss tomorrow. Or: I recall the Treaty of Lisbon. It has not even been ratified by all national parliaments, and the no-bailout clause has already been removed. I think these are some examples of the fact that both EU bureaucracies and, in part, the government of the European Union have such an apprehension that you should not be surprised if there are low voter participations if people give up their right to vote and if there are a number of angry citizens in the forums. Therefore, I believe that it is also necessary to find clarity because, at the end of the day, clarity in the process would be a way to a much needed red tape reduction.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19966	I call Mr El Habbassi. I'll set you up for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e19988	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's all about bureaucracy. Too much bureaucracy prevents jobs. If you look at these guidelines and the discussion of the last few minutes, you can only wonder again and again. It is not only the government's task to ensure that the bureaucracy of wild animals is not out of the way, but it is the task of each of us here, including officials, but above all of us Members here, to pay attention every day to the fact that we are not building new bureaucratic barriers, not to cause more administrative burdens for our businesses and entrepreneurs, and thus also fewer jobs. That's all our task. We can discuss very carefully here, beautiful speeches swing, but the workers and the entrepreneurs who spend a working day every week, 8.5 hours on average, doing any bureaucratic obstacles or administrative tasks are relatively little interested. It is not rare that the opposition has repeatedly expressed its wishes, which at the end of the day would cause us to create even more bureaucracy. We will be confronted again and again with the need to ward off these things. It is not only about how much bureaucracy one has created, but also about how much one could prevent from doing so. I believe that in the past the Federal Government has contributed a great deal to the fact that many bureaucratic obstacles have not been introduced, which many here would have wished to see in the house. [[Abg. Kickl: For example?]] I can take this example after you. Unfortunately, my speaking time is limited, I would rather set an example for young entrepreneurs who, for example, because they have 16 square centimeters of space in the office, could not hire a new employee. Or: There is a tourist who took over the operation of her parents, did not change the name, did not change the legal form, but had to spend 40,000 € alone for any bureaucratic change and other things. This prevents innovation, which also prevents job creation. In this sense, we are not hurt when we keep reminding ourselves that it is better to reduce bureaucratic obstacles than to build new ones. We should also continue to implement this as a motto for this house in our daily work.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20022	Mr Katzian is speaking next. I'll set up two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20046	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I have now been very interested in the debate on red tape. I think we all agree that something should happen, but some have gone through the horses a little bit. When I heard what was subsumed under the term “bureaucratisation reduction” in some examples and topics, I was strengthened in my opinion that when implementing all of these things, one must look very, very carefully so that one does not pour out the child with the bath. I am just looking at the example of colleagues Köchl: Yeah, let's find a way to help the lady in her business for an hour. But it can't be that there's something going on there without a game rule again, because at the beginning it's an hour because you're going to the hospital and visiting someone, a week later it's two hours; at first it's the neighbor or the cousin, two weeks later it's any other people. - I can't. We already need clear rules of play and also an inclusion of exceptional situations in social structures. If you don't do that, then, as you say in Vienna, we have given the dirt a cart, and in reality, we have not achieved anything, except new problems, which it will then be remedied. That can't be, and that's why I announce: Yes, we will do all of this, but, of course, we look very closely, because red tape cannot be called social reduction. I'm just saying that so that this has been pronounced once too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A lot has already been said about the Economic Partnership Agreement. I believe that the agreement here in the House also shows clearly that no one is opposed to international trade agreements, but that it is also about creating rules of the game – rules of the game, as we agreed together with our common request, which received very high approval, for example to TTIP, a few weeks ago. There is a clear line, and this is now to be implemented, especially since it is clear that it is Parliament that ultimately has to ratify it, and not anyone else. I am very pleased about this, and we should do so together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20085	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schellenbacher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20106	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! It has been said very much that there is broad agreement that the reduction of bureaucracy is an essential feature of a future positive development of SMEs. However, I believe that at least one important or more important fact is that there is a financial crisis and that there must be a major improvement for SMEs in order to facilitate day-to-day work. There is a statistics of the Chamber of Commerce and the AWS, in which it is shown that companies that were founded between 2011 and 2014 are financed only 17.7 percent. The problem is, if you want to do the day-to-day business, you need your own equity. According to this study, the equity transferred is 37.2 percent. The capital invested is transferred by entrepreneurs from saved, already taxed money to the companies, i.e. that they are exposed to a debt trap, i.e. to: In the future, these reserves will not be available and the first difficulty in the company will, as it were, come to a halt that is burdening the company and it as a person socially and economically, or even ruining it. Therefore, my request to the Federal Government: It should be pointed out that this precarious situation is improving. Banks should do what they should do for businesses, that is to finance them and thus ensure the focus of SMEs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20143	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20164	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to begin my debate on red tape with a practical report, not just to theoretize. I come from a region where five municipalities have established an intercommunal economic park. That is, they have to establish a GesmbH, have made a commercial application, have bought a property, have made open roads, have had to provide water supply and disposal, have even had to do a flood protection project. That is to say, there were the most extensive administrative procedures necessary, and all these administrative procedures went over the stage very quickly, very quickly and quickly. The success story continues: Three farms have settled in this economic park within a short period of time. This, of course, required a construction process, a plant approval procedure and many other procedures. In the meantime, 150 employees have found a job within three years, and all procedures have really been completed as quickly as possible. And that didn't happen somewhere, but it happened in Austria. I am very pleased because there are also these positive examples – in addition to the legitimate criticism of the bureaucracy, which we all want to change. It is therefore a great concern to thank the authorities once, and this is a good opportunity, because we were really accompanied by the authorities; these are primarily the competent departments in the county headquarters or, of course, in the municipalities. The starting point for reducing this too much bureaucracy in Austria has already been very well outlined by Mr Mahrer, as I believe. This is a process that needs to start, it will take place in small steps. This will be a sustainable process, only then will we achieve a sustainable outcome. Another topic, which has not yet been edited, is certainly the topic of e-government: 24 hours, 7 days a week to be able to manage administrative routes. We haven't reached the ceiling yet. This also has a lot of potential to implement red tape in reality. However, if we want to introduce e-Government across the board – and with this I come to a topic that has been discussed more often here in the House – then of course we also need a comprehensive broadband expansion. I am very pleased that movement has now come into this subject. I would also like to make a plea that these networks, the passive infrastructure and the fibre-optic networks, remain in public ownership. I consider that to be very important, because – and this is the most important thing – if we already have the technical possibilities for the Internet, it will also need the right prices for it. That is, we are. There is also a need for a durable internet, and that will only be possible if appropriate competition can take place over the networks. Removable Internet for everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20212	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20234	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Sweet Matthias Köchl, don't worry, we don't want to take away the Chamber of Commerce! We just want the Chamber of Commerce to act entrepreneurially and not simply manage contributions. There are over a quarter of a million EPUs in Austria, including many start-ups; we have a small, thriving start-up scene. How are these welcomed by the Chamber of Commerce? – With a license for the chamber housing. And here we find it fair only if there is an opt-out if these achievements of the Chamber of Commerce are not really retrieved – first for EPCs and in future for all companies. In this sense, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20293	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20372	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall vote on Agenda item 10, the resolution on 'Bürocratie reduction now' attached to the Committee's report 282 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 47.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues, on the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chambers of Commerce. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Call the ÖVP:A whog z’weng!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Economic Partnership Agreements between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, in 186 of the Supplements referred to in Article 50. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimous and therefore accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Interim Economic Partnership Agreements between Côte d’Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, in 261 of the Supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. [[20:11:42]] 13. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/11 (III-93/281 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20445	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr. Moser. The first speaker to speak was Mr Preiner. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20475	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors examined public passenger transport in the federal states of Carinthia and Salzburg in the period 2008 to 2012. I am very grateful to the officials of the Court of Auditors for the detailed report. I should like to mention that, in my opinion, the report for the country of Salzburg, as regards the management of public transport, is more positive than for Carinthia,as noted in the 2008-2012 report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler]] In both federal states, more than 20 percent of public funding has been used to maintain and expand the public transport network. As far as Salzburg is concerned, both the traffic volume and the number of passengers increased. In Carinthia it was exactly the other way round. There, passenger numbers fell by 9 percent, and traffic volumes fell by 6 percent. A curiousness concerns the townships of Klagenfurt. There were problems regarding the integration of the urban plants with the surrounding Carinthia transport network due to the lack of mutual recognition of the issued tickets. Accessability, density of the public transport network, number of passengers transported and ticket prices are important criteria to ensure that public transport works, and not only that, but also that it is also adopted accordingly by people in the regions. I can mention that for many people – for students, students, but also for people who do not have a driving licence – public transport is often the only means of mobility in the rural regions. I see very positively the announcement of Minister of Transport Stöger, who has made in the Committee, to set up a working group in the Ministry of Transport to establish minimum standards in the public transport sector. In my opinion, however, it is also essential and necessary to have an overall overview of all public funds, a comprehensive overview of which funds are invested by the federal government, countries, municipalities, but also private enterprises in public transport. At the end of the day, it is also important to ensure that rural regions remain attractive, that jobs are created and secured. As a positive example of a functioning public transport, I call the East-Region Transport Association in the countries of Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland. There's a lot of investment going on. I mention only the investment figures of the country of Burgenland: in 2000, just over €5 million, this year, in 2014, it is over €17 million, which is an increase of over 300 percent. – This was not a joyful promise: say and write more than 300 percent. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Time!]] This shows how important this easternmost federal state in Austria is of public transport. In addition, investments in public transport are also investments in climate protection and contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20518	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20539	Madam President. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “All buses, all trains, a map”, is the slogan of the Salzburg Transport Association. And when it comes to the Court of Auditors' report, this concept has had much more success than the counterpart in Carinthia, namely the Carinthian GesmbH Transport Association. The facts and facts confirm this statement, including the comments of Mr Preiner, who has already mentioned the facts and facts. Short to repeat: Traffic traffic – an increase in Salzburg, a minus in Carinthia; transported passengers – 39.6 million in Carinthia, 68 million in Salzburg, an increase in Salzburg, a minus in Carinthia. Considering that both federal states have about 550 000 inhabitants, the difference is already very significant. It is also important to note that public transport in Salzburg is much more frequent than in Carinthia; the average travel options per direction of travel were at any stop in Salzburg, for example, at 13 daily, in Carinthia at five. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] So there's a huge difference. From these comparisons, it is hard to see that Salzburg offers a much better offer with a lower amount of public resources per passenger. [[Call the FPÖ:between Carinthia and Salzburg!]] It is incomprehensible to me that there is no complaint management in Carinthia, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out. No matter how it is set up, a complaint management is part of the customer-friendliness and is also the basis for responding to failures and developing the transport association customer-friendlyly. It is also incomprehensible to me that there was neither a quality check in Carinthia nor the agreed pönal system applied; in Salzburg that was already the case. Quality tests are necessary in order to support the economic and effective use of public funds. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to a problem that will be particularly important in the future: Looking at the customer groups during the entire journeys, it turns out that in Salzburg 50 percent of passengers were pupils and apprentices, even 68 percent in Carinthia. As a result of demographic developments, the share of pupils and apprentices has already fallen in recent years and will continue to decline; the Court of Auditors has in particular noted this in its report. In my opinion, this is a particular challenge for the future financing of transport associations. Ladies and gentlemen! Another word for the benefit of such transport associations for the population: In my opinion, such transport associations are a very, very important institution. I would like to quote the following: There is only one map for all transport lines, a tariff for all transport undertakings within a transport network, a free change of transport undertakings along a chosen route or also the timetables to name just a few positions. Yes, transport associations are certainly an important factor for attractive public transport and, in my opinion, fulfil an important task in the mobility of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20579	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20600	Madam President. Mr President. Mr President, you are probably quite red in praise, but I think it is right and proper to praise the Court of Auditors because it performs its control function very well, for which we are very grateful. Thank you very much. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the Court of Auditors' report on transport associations: Comparison of services and financing in Carinthia and Salzburg. Public funds for this amounted to € 107 million in 2012 in Carinthia, around € 122 million in Salzburg. In Salzburg, passengers contributed about 33 percent to the total cost of 180 million €. Mr. Singer, it is also striking that passengers in Carinthia pay less than in Salzburg. So there has been a very good policy once people pay less for the tickets according to this Court of Auditors report. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also remarkable that the Salzburger Landesmobility concept does not include any concrete deadlines for implementation and no specific framework conditions. What is particularly important to us from the FPÖ is, of course, public transport in rural and regional areas. Public transport is part of the infrastructure. Rural areas must not be further diluted and eroded. To secure and expand jobs, especially in rural areas, must be a principle for policy, ladies and gentlemen, and local and regional transport must be an essential part of this principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20661	Mr Willi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20682	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to my actual speech, I have to get rid of something. I experience almost every session that a new sport is being practiced here – primarily by the NEOS and the Stronach team – and that is, “Hinhauen on the federal states”. I think that this is not going on, because you are pretending to be better and cheaper, and country solutions are getting worse and more expensive. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Stroll: But you didn't listen! I'm a federalist! I'm responsible!]] The truth lies elsewhere: There are areas in which it makes sense to make uniform solutions across the country, but I also find the competition between the federal states exciting. [[Abg. Stroll: Agreed!]] I give you three examples that I have experienced myself. First of all, on animal welfare: Good thing that the federal unit is regulated, but in Tyrol we had a animal welfare law that was better and more animal-friendly than today's federal legislation. The second example I have experienced: Breast cancer prevention for women. We had a program in Tyrol, that was great. Then came the federal uniform regime, and it falls behind the country regime in Tyrol. Today, fewer women are in breast cancer treatment in Tyrol than before. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, we want benchmarks...!]] One final example, and so I'm going to talk about traffic: the 365-€ ticket. Fortunately, there are now two federal states – Vienna and Vorarlberg – thanks to the work of the Greens. If we were to wait for an Austrian regulation, we would have to wait a long time because it is expensive. So let us be glad that sometimes the federal states are able to go ahead and trust or afford something, where the others then gradually move along. - That's for the introduction. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] So, and now to the report itself. Mr President, Mr Moser, please point out to your people that in my opinion this report is something like a habilitation! He has a depth that, I think, will still be exemplary, because probably never before have traffic associations been studied as closely as this time. The period 2008 to 2012 was examined. Transport associations were compared in Carinthia and Salzburg. The match of the two federal states is clear: 1 : 0 for Salzburg. Now one can speculate whether this has to do with the orange or blue government participation in Carinthia, but I do not want to do that now. However, as far as Carinthia is concerned, I note positively that they are starting to pick up – I could also say thanks to the new government constellation. Complement to Carinthia: In rail traffic they really pick up, thanks to the “Kärnten Tact”. This is the most important way to get to grips with the passenger trains in the railways. On the other hand, the report shows that there was between 6 percent and 9 percent of passengers in Carinthia during the period under investigation, while Salzburg was able to increase from 5 percent to 7 percent. And although Carinthia has received more public money for public transport, it has lost to passengers and timetable kilometres over Salzburg, because they have grown. Do you know why Salzburg was so good? – Because, of course, the better geographical conditions for the organisation of public transport – you have to recognise this – but also because they have turned above all on a screw, namely on the framework conditions. They said: We want to make public transport faster, through bus tracks, through traffic lights. We want to strengthen public transport in the cities through more restrictive parking for cars. And they have established good cooperation between organisers who have organised major events and public transport operators. That is, if one favours the framework conditions for public transport, then public transport is starting, then there are more people using public transport. If you look at the group of people who drive publicly, it is primarily the boys – the pupils and apprentices – who are between 50 percent in Salzburg and 68 percent in Carinthia. That is, the large group of public drivers are the boys. This is a huge opportunity: If we offer them good public transport, they will not jump us off as soon as they are allowed to drive, but then they will remain in public transport. The Quintessence from this report is: The offer must fit, the framework conditions must be right, and we need attractive public tickets, especially annual tickets. Finally, I would like to show you a picture of the Court of Auditors' report. [[the speaker introduces a table entitled “Figure 7: Current payments in the financing of public transport in the Carinthia region” to the speaker’s desk]] This is the financing structure of public transport in Carinthia. It is very similar to that in Salzburg. Federal Chancellor Sinowatz would have said: That's all very complicated! The customers of public transport often experience the range of trains and buses as well as the same complexity. You don't know each other. - We need to change that. We have to offer passengers simple conditions: easy to get, clear, good offer, good conditions and simple tickets. If we make access to public transport simple and good, I think we will bring a lot of people to public transport, to environmentally friendly transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20777	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20799	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Many issues have already been addressed. I would also like to say something about the comparison of the services and the financing of the transport networks in Carinthia and Salzburg. The Court of Auditors once again noted in its report that neither the transport associations nor the Federal Government had an overview of the public funds used. Key data on public and regional transport such as the use of public funds, passenger contributions, the supply of transport or passenger development have not been recorded. There was no monitoring, so no effective control of the use of funds. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about small amounts, but about billions of euros. If you spend so much money, you should also know that the money comes where it is supposed to arrive and is used usefully. But how is it to be determined whether the financial resources will be used in a targeted manner if there is no effective objectives for this purpose with measurable indicators and deadlines for achieving these objectives? Both Landesbudgets – both Carinthia and Salzburg – did not have these goals, says the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors will review the way it looks in the Eastern Region Transport Association in the coming year. It would also be desirable for other federal states to be examined, but the Court of Auditors cannot do so because the necessary resources do not exist. At this point in connection with the Court of Auditors' reports, I have often pointed out the precarious financial situation and also asked the representatives of the government parties to increase the funds. The opposition parties have all agreed, the government parties unfortunately not. We now see that there are already restrictions on the audit activity of the Court of Auditors. This is also reflected in the following chapters that we are going to consider today. However, a criticism of the Court of Auditors or the resulting recommendation would be implemented immediately. We also discussed this with the Minister for Transport in the Committee: This is the recommendation given by the auditors to the Minister for Transport on harmonising the legal bases of public and regional transport with EU law. In this regard, the Minister has made commitments for a due innovation, and we hope that he will implement it quickly and will not wait any longer. I hope that, on the occasion of a audit report by the Court of Auditors, we will soon be able to discuss other federal states and that we will finally come to a solution as far as the Court of Auditors' resources are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20842	Next speaker: Mr Pock. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20863	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to add directly to what the colleague from the Stronach team said, but I would like to say in advance: Of course, as NEOS, we are committed to the significant expansion of public transport. Especially in rural regions, But also in the urban centres – and we have discussed this more often – there is urgent need for rethinking. In my opinion, however, this is not the central issue of the Court of Auditors' report. We always call for a coordinated approach by the Federal Government and the Länder, a comprehensive strategy, when it comes to expanding public transport, to a transport plan that goes beyond 2030. If we want such a plan, we need, of course, a comprehensive view of funding, whether it is federal or state or, as in some exceptions, local authorities. It needs the same view of financing, and I think that is one of the hottest criticisms. There is no such overall view of financing. There is no uniform overview. This, in turn, makes it impossible for us to actually conduct benchmarking, says comparisons between the federal states. However, only such comparisons make it possible to recognize both the federal and the countries where there are weaknesses and where tax money is not used sufficiently efficiently. However, this is a necessary condition in order to be able to become more successful in public transport and sometimes not to implement projects which individual national governments call prestige projects. I would now like to address the following points: In 2007/2008, BMVIT commissioned an external consulting company to draw up a monitoring system. This was also implemented accordingly, so the monitoring was carried out. However, it is interesting that the results of the monitoring have not been implemented – neither in Carinthia nor in Salzburg. This means that we first appoint external experts from our tax money, then receive a corresponding expertise which we do not implement, which will unnecessarily spend further tax money. This has to stop, it has to be changed! I would like to add two more points which, from our point of view, are related to benchmarking. If we are talking about a cost-effective expansion of public transport, then the following two things are necessary: Direct allocations must be terminated – primarily to the ÖBB. There is already a request from our side of the Committee on Transport. There must be a clear call for tender, which is also in line with the European Commission Directive. The second point is: There must be a corresponding reform of spatial planning – primarily in infrastructure projects and, of course, in Austria, in the second line. We need planning security, and that only works with a corresponding reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20915	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20936	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not easy to speak as a Carinthian to this Court of Auditors report. It has been examined very clearly, there are very critical comments, and the duel, the match goes very well in these points. it's in favour of Salzburg. But I believe that in the meantime there has been a great change in Carinthia and that there are also some positive aspects. Unfortunately, today we have to note that we cannot meet a wish: If the former Transport Officer Gerhard Dörfler has ever come to mind that he will eventually be elected the supertalent of Austrian transport policy, this hope will not be fulfilled after today's report. The comments were too critical. I would like to draw some figures from this report: When we look at the number of passengers transported from 2008 to 2012, we see: In Salzburg it rose by 6.8 percent, while in Carinthia it fell by 8.8 percent. When we look at traffic: in Salzburg plus 5 percent, in Carinthia minus 6 percent. If we look at the average travel options per stop in every direction: in Salzburg, 13 daily in Carinthia 5.5. I would like to make a few points, for example, that the route guide is of course not quite comparable. There are significantly more train kilometres in Carinthia. We have a very scattered network of routes, we have many valleys, many remote regions, which of course also need to be well supplied. At least in Carinthia, we have now also begun to counter it. Mr Willi has already referred to it: Every year we have double-digit growth rates in public passenger transport, plus 10 percent and beyond. There's a lot of things going on. Of course, what's difficult is falling student numbers. We have had record numbers in this field in Carinthia, which is why this is particularly hard for us, but it is also doing a lot of things. What is positive and what also shows that control works: Of course, the Court of Auditors' recommendations are now also carefully considered in planning and included in forthcoming plans. Personally, I can say: No matter if someone lives in the country or in the city, it is the task of politics to provide fair participation in public life for all people, especially in transport policy. A well-developed public transport is a very important basis for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e20981	Next speaker: Mr Hofinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21003	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors report shows us that attractive local transport looks different: few passengers, reduced transport, an increase in the use of funds, despite 90 percent of public funds. The Carinthian Regional Transport Plan shows neither a uniform quality nor a comprehensive supply in rural areas. By contrast, the Salzburg mobility concept has introduced targets, namely concrete minimum standards, which address exactly what is important, namely the frequency of connections from one place to another. It must be said that 14 percent of the municipalities in Salzburg have not complied with this, but at least 42 percent of the municipalities have fulfilled it above average, targeting and needs-oriented. In Carinthia, the average use has increased proportionally to that in Salzburg, but passenger numbers have fallen. Nevertheless, it is also interesting that passengers with 33 percent are involved in travel costs in Salzburg in particular. I think that Carinthia has simply relied too much on funding through apprentice and student free trips and has shown too little need-oriented transport concepts – unlike Salzburg. This is certainly a reason why the numbers of students in Carinthia are proportionally higher than in Salzburg. In principle, however, it is natural that passenger and regional transport is of great importance in rural areas. If this does not exist or is not sufficiently present, then, of course, the departure from the rural area is open door and gate. That is why this issue is all the more important, and I agree with Georg Willizu, who has tabled the proposal to simplify the system. I believe that this is a very essential point: We in Upper Austria also have a 60 Euro ticket for apprentices and students to use in Upper Austria. This is uncomplicated and helps everyone. You have to make exactly such offers. As has been said, in rural areas, public transport for students and students is very important, but of course also for older people who have to drive to hospitals, who have to go to the city. It is precisely these needs that need to be taken into account, of course, and there is something we need to think about. I am also personally involved in the regional transport concept in my district and therefore I know what I am talking about. It is very, very difficult to develop transport concepts. In most cases there is a lack of money, which is often the problem, but I believe that we must fight to ensure that we provide the rural regions well in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21057	Mr Angerer is the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21078	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Court of Auditors report – I would like to thank you for the really good drafting – is taken honestly and not superficially, as some have obviously done, then it can be said that the Court of Auditors gives a good witness and, of course, makes structural proposals and makes recommendations on how to improve it. But it's obviously modern at the moment to pick up on Carinthia. I can therefore only say to you: Leave that, because you are insulting 540 000 Carinthias! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would now like to try, on the basis of some examples that have now been brought, to explain something more differentiated, which is the cause of the fact that in Carinthia the number of journeys also decreases. In Carinthia, we have a decrease of 8.8 percent in the number of passengers transported, which is right, and in Salzburg an increase of 6.8 percent, although the tickets, which has already been mentioned, are cheaper in Carinthia than in Salzburg, but there is a much better offer in Salzburg. In other words, the offer must be voted, and it will be accepted. The second example is – as you have to look at the numbers a little more closely – the number of students. The number of students has fallen dramatically, pupils and apprentices in Carinthia minus 9.9 percent and in Salzburg minus 2.8 percent. Now I assume that students and apprentices did not just change their cars, because they don't have anything yet, but that this has a different reason. Carinthia has 68 percent student and Salzburg has 50 percent student, i.e. it's a completely different mass, and this shows the dramatic demographic development we have especially in rural areas. It has already been said today that Carinthia has a completely different structure than Salzburg. Salzburg is quite different. Carinthia has valleys, long valleys. The Mölltal, from which I come, has a length of 84 kilometers and a valley closure. The demographic development we have is dramatic, and we should not always hear empty flakes, but we should put in place appropriate measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a look at this: Today we already have communities with up to 20 percent emigration, Mallnitz is one of these communities. The future looks gloomy, that will go up to 30 percent. It's a country escape, people go to town. And this land flight will destroy economic assets because we in rural areas today have infrastructure, roads, roads, canals, apartments that will be empty in the future, but on the other hand, the infrastructure needs to be further expanded in the cities. In addition, life becomes even more expensive because in the cities the rents go up. So there's definitely a need for a change. It is centralist politics, which unfortunately is supported by this federal government and also by our national government and which goes in the completely wrong direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: This is quite a mistake!]] [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Abg. Jarolim) He wasn't even inside!]] [[Abg. Darmann: (in the direction of Abg. Jarolim) Don't tell a mayor!]] [[Abg. Kickl: No word is heard, but it's good to talk in!]] That is why we also need to look at the overall economy and look at how public transport is used better today. It has been referred to how we should better involve public transport, especially in rural areas, and I would like to finally make a constructive proposal on how we should do so. It has already been mentioned today – that was in the time of our Lord Dörfler, who invented this with his government – the Carinthian clock. Today, on the main routes – and on this one this Carinthian cycle has been implemented – from Graz via Klagenfurt and Villach to Osttirol, an increase of 5,000 passengers per day. This did not come about under the current government, but under the so bad blue government in Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And yet, and this is the problem, we have on weekends, on Sundays and holidays 56 communities that cannot be reached by public transport. This is our problem because we cannot provide these communities with the present structures. And we have also inherited these structures from you, ladies and gentlemen, public officials and postal officials. These companies are now providing regular services, with which we have to deal with this today. We cannot use private and smaller solutions, but we must do so with this requirement. It is therefore necessary for other solutions, for the connection of this rural area other laws, for a change in the road and on-the-spot traffic legislation, in order to involve occasional transport services, call buses, call taxis and small vehicle solutions. Today, for example, in a small bus carrying out the student transport, no one else is allowed to ride. It is therefore necessary to amend this law accordingly. We will make a request for solutions to be implemented, and I hope that you will agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21191	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21212	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about Family & Profession Management GmbH, which has also been examined by the Court of Auditors, and there is no very good witness at all. This Family & Profession Management GmbH was founded in 2006 and is actually a legacy of the black-orange government. It was certainly a good idea to bring in family-friendly, family-friendly measures in companies and also in communities. In this respect, this GmbH also offers audits, both for municipalities and for companies. Finally, however, the discussion about the former managing director and attorney and the following court proceedings showed that this was probably mainly a supply unit. The list of criticisms of the Court of Auditors is long, beginning with the lack of a business concept. Furthermore, it is criticized that the Advisory Board met very late there, that contracts to the Family & Profession Management GmbH were awarded to close-up persons and that what happens more often and what we often see is a lively exchange between the Ministry and this Family & Profession Management GmbH in terms of personnel, especially from the Cabinet. Summa summarum, in fact, calls on the Court of Auditors to consider whether this distributed GmbH should not be reintegrated again, whether the measures put forward by this Family & Profession Management GmbH could not also be carried out by the Ministry itself. - I think so. We now also have a request to the Ministry to do so. I think that it is only when measures that are good can be put in place more efficiently, at lower costs. These audits are of course good, not a question, which is an essential contribution to the compatibility of family and work and for family kindness in Austria, but if I read in the Court of Auditors' report that the administrative costs have increased gradually and this GmbH has also received additional funds for things that were originally defined as their task, then here is actually the question of sense. And with regard to efficiency, I would think and still insist that this be re-integrated into the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21252	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-93 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:48:57]] 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2014/10 (III-91/306 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21298	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Hakel is speaking. I'll set 3 minutes of speaking time and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21325	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for the extensive Court of Auditors report on the Bundestheater-Holding. In the Committee we had detailed time, especially to consult the head of the department of the Ministry, because the Court of Auditors report makes it clear that communication, in particular between holding and ministry, is obviously not – how should I say? – actually didn't work at all. According to the Court of Auditors' report, there has also been a clear lack of control of the Ministry of Culture in the past. Although the Ministry of Culture and the head of the section regularly received the three-year plans of the stage companies, obviously these plans were not dealt with by the head of the section, commented on, nor were they passed on to the holding only in the worst possible way. It was also clearly reported by the head of the section that in the years 2007 to the end of 2013 there seemed to be 160 meetings between the Ministry and Holding. But what was discussed in these discussions he did not tell us. The fact that alternative solutions to the blatant major financing problems have been discussed has clearly not been the case, because then we would not be standing here today. It has actually been so that the head of the section has answered all the questions he has been asked, that he has only carried out or fulfilled work orders, work orders that have come from above. And that's where I'm already asking the question: Is a section leader necessary for order performance from the very top, or could the staff at the lower level also do it? What is actually the task of a section head? – What is certainly not his job also came out quite clearly at the time of reply, because obviously in the more than 160 discussions between holding and ministry, that is, the head of the section, everything was only agreed orally. No line of agreement, information, a report was recorded in writing. This is also evident in the famous efficiency analysis of the Bundestheater Group. This cost the considerable sum of more than half a million euros. Only € 175 000 of these were spent on monitoring, coordination and evaluation of the results of the efficiency analysis by the auditor and the tax advisor, and all of this was reported orally only – and now it comes. Why that was so, by the way, the section manager could not answer me, which brings me back to the question: What is actually the task of a section head? Shouldn't a section head inform the Minister in detail, bring her proposals for solutions, provide her with an assessment of the ongoing work, for example in the Bundestheater-Holding – yes, in order to protect her too – and all of this in writing?- Oh, my God! – That’s why alone to show that he himself is at least... has been looking for solutions and not to have to ask us here today: What is actually the task of a section head?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21376	Next item is the report by Mr Gahr. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21398	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The extremely critical and unfortunately inconvenient Court of Auditors report on the Bundestheater-Holding clearly shows that there is an absolute need for action and a risk of delay in the economic situation and organisational structures of the Bundestheater-Holding. It is a clear task that there is a rapid establishment of order here and that the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors in a large number are quickly addressed. I think it is too little to blame just one section head here, but I think that there have been a number of unfortunate decisions in the management, but also a control failure as regards the supervisory bodies which have led to this situation. There is a single welcome communication in this Court of Auditors report, and that is the fact that the folk opera has been conducted properly in the past, as one of the few theatres. The Court of Auditors has shown that, between 2009/2010 and 2011/2012, equity decreased by 18 percent, the reserves decreased by 88 percent, and the reserves were exhausted in the short time. The four-eye principle has not been applied to the creation and modification of personal accounts and to drawing permissions. There was no standardised authorisation procedure for benefits. Here, salopp said, it was done very loose and casually. There were no public invitations to tender from the managing director since 1999. In the new management now, there has been a proper tendering procedure – and the Minister has clearly stated this. There were charges in the honors. And this surprises me that just at such a farm €9 million was paid to honors and gagen bar. There was no basis for behaviour in terms of general behaviour in the company. – And so the number of shortcomings could continue. I believe that one thing is important – this request was made very clearly after this report, which was also very critically discussed in the Committee –: In the future, a functioning controlling needs to be established explicitly by law. There were also some criticisms in the cultural sector which the Court of Auditors has highlighted. The cultural resort did not respond to statements by the Bundestheater-Holding on financing and strategy concepts. The cultural sector has failed to comment on quality reports and participation control. So, overall, this Court of Auditors report shows three major shortcomings. There has been a control failure in many areas. Commercial principles have not been respected, or they have simply been applied or ignored surfacely. And there was a very poor compliance culture in dealing with each other. One thing remains to be hoped: that, after this unsavory, extremely negative and critical report, the necessary and right steps will be taken to lead this Bundestheater holding into a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21452	Mr Mölzer, you are the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21473	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Unfortunately, this Court of Auditors report, which we have been grateful for, draws a moral picture in the Bundestheater-Holding, which we have seen since the Burgtheater scandal became known and which is confirmed here. Interestingly, last week we all agreed in committee. I think the facts are so clear on the table that all the factions had to agree on the fact that there has been a great deal wrong here, that there have been catastrophic conditions here and that there is a larger dog buried somewhere. There are three or four points left. As mentioned today, the one is the strategic leadership role that has not been observed by the holding company. The result was poor planning and poor controlling. Another point, also mentioned today, is the legal evaluation, which was commissioned by Minister Schmied in 2009 and cost half a million euros. Apart from the fact that the officials once again bought something that they actually had to do, the Court of Auditors says that the savings potential of €12 million was theoretically available, but in reality only €5 000, I think, of which they have been left, which of course already sounds very sign-bourgeois, when you spend half a million euros and at the end you will only be able to save €5 000. Another point, also mentioned, is the failure of control in the cultural resort with the said 160 conversations, where one obviously wanted to do less in the administration and in the way in which one manages, saves or changes it, rather one wanted to save in the cultural area and clearly blackmail the policy that there is a higher basic salary. Certainly not the fine English style. Another point is the question of the extension of the contract, which has already been mentioned, from the former managing director Springer to the questions of the individual houses, Hartmann and Co, to the head of the section, whose contract has been extended. There you will have to explain why this happened without a call for tender and under what responsibility that happened. We will, together with the Greens – we have already announced last week in the Court of Auditors Committee – demand a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors and, hopefully, we will do it successfully, in order to clarify political responsibility and, of course, to bring even more light to the dark. The political responsibility must be clarified in the light of the fact that a minister has been divorced from office who has held this responsibility for several years. There it is, I think, definitely too little, then to say that they were a section head and a managing director who fell from heaven and did some bad things there. There is already a political party, in which case the Social Democracy, behind it, which since 2006 has been responsible for the department and has watched it. In this sense it is also to be said: Last week we were denied a survey by former Minister Schmied on the committee by the government parties. For me, this means that at the moment, in any case, Minister Ostermayer has the political responsibility to take over and to stand for this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21525	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21546	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm right about Mr Mölzer: It is very unfortunate that the SPÖ, together with the ÖVP, has prevented former Minister Schmied from making statements on the debakel for which she is ultimately responsible, in the Committee on Culture and Culture, in the Committee on Culture and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We would have liked to ask her a lot. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] For example, we would have liked to ask her why she extended the contract of Matthias Hartmann, the director of the Burgtheater, just one year after taking office for another period – not only for the first, but also for the second – and then also equipped him with feudal privileges. We would have liked to ask her why she extended Georg Springer, the holding chief, without need, knowing that he did not finish the whole mess in the federal theatres and made an extremely miserable figure throughout the process. We would have liked to ask them why this premium payment has been received, which he is not entitled to. And we would have liked to ask her how she presented this with the efficiency analysis, which should have revealed savings potential, but then even cost half a million euros. I don't think that Ernst & Young's analysts actually wrote what they could have written in this efficiency analysis. There's some clues about that. The first is, they actually didn't complete what they originally wanted to write, but they were asked by the ministry to write a second version, which is actually not usual. Second: To date, this efficiency analysis is not public, neither the first version nor the second. The third point: I remember, in 2012, I think it was mid-2012, this efficiency analysis has been presented in a summary in the Cultural Committee. What does Summary mean? Calendar statements were knocked like: All potential for improvement will be pursued further. So we didn't have much of that. But I asked those analysts of Ernst & Young at the time if they actually listed all the savings potential in the final report. In reply I did not get a yes, nor “no, but ” but no answer at all. It was quiet, it was quiet in the hall, and it was extremely embarrassing. This entered silence, even the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ, has made it clear to us all in the committee that something strange is being played out here, that there could be a savings potential of €12.4 million. The fact that this exists only on paper, if there are no appropriate measures, was also clear to us. Finally, the Court of Auditors' report showed exactly what it is: It was €5 000 instead of €12.4 million. A study that costs €500 000 and brings € 5 000 is not an efficient efficiency analysis. Mr President, I am sure you will be right. In addition to the principles of economic efficiency and economy, the Ministry also has to follow the principle of efficiency. That didn't happen. The Court of Auditors' report clearly made three points: First: The holding company has worked correctly into the disaster for many years without any counter-control measures. Secondly, The Ministry knew everything from the beginning and did nothing, namely nothing, against it. Thirdly, Both the holding and the ministry were always trying to cover up, cover up, and deceive the public against better knowledge. I think this kind of transparency has no future. We see it again and again, at least in the cultural field, that it manages to reveal everything, but then it is usually too late. I believe that the continuation of these deceleration and cover strategies is more hindered than aid. And since this has not gone any further, we now have to set up a subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Schmied, will hopefully come into this. Anyway, there's no longer any reason for them not to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21613	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21635	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I dedicate myself to the test report on the public educational universities. In its report, the Court of Auditors criticises double-trackness, parallel structures and additional costs. In concrete terms, two ministries are responsible for training at educational universities, namely the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science. The Court's figures indicate that training in the larger institutions is more cost-effective. As has been said, the Court of Auditors is doing this very well in comparison with the figures. The considerable differences in expenditure per student would require concentrations and cooperation in the context of the reorganisation of teacher training. We can support this recommendation from the Court of Auditors, and we are in favour of it. The Court of Auditors also criticises the low number of male teaching students at the educational universities and recommends measures here to increase the attractiveness of teaching in compulsory education for men. This demand, ladies and gentlemen, of course we can only confirm and support very much, because for years I have introduced applications here to increase the proportion of men in educational professions. Unfortunately, nothing has happened until now. I should also like to remind you at this point that in 2010 we made a five-party resolution here in the House, which was about increasing the proportion of men in pedagogical professions. It's just that until now, unfortunately, nothing has happened. The Minister of Education argues that the education of teachers should also ensure that men are attracted to the profession as well as to the new teaching law. However, these measures will not enter into force until much later. This has already been set out in the 2008 Government Convention, but it is only possible to evaluate it if it has entered into force and has been in place for some time. Power is. But now this means that what was recorded and anchored in the last government programme to increase the share of men in pedagogical professions can be evaluated at the earliest in 2019. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a far too long time! Something has to happen faster here, especially since we have also decided on a five-party resolution here. We should stick to our own decisions and implement them, especially to the representatives of the government parties. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and its employees, of course, for the detailed reports. – Unfortunately, my speaking time is already over. I hope that the next time the Court of Auditors reports are back on the agenda, as last time, the Court of Auditors will have more of it, we could discuss the reports in detail, and it would be good for my speaking time, because I have no more and I can no longer speak on the next two items on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21692	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21713	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I'm jumping back to the topic of Bundestheater. This report, as we have already heard today – we have also discussed it in great detail in the Court of Auditors, unfortunately not as detailed as we wanted, namely Claudia Schmied – this report is destructive as far as the Bundestheater-Holding is concerned, as far as its strategic leadership is concerned, but in particular, in my opinion, as far as the business skills of the managing director of the Bundestheater-Holding are concerned, but also as far as the Ministry is concerned. Now I would like to zoom back briefly to our urgent request, which we made in February 2014 on the topic of Burgtheater. I said at the time that there were structural problems in this Bundestheater-Holding and that there was obviously a lack of leadership on the part of the holding company. Neither controlling nor internal revision should have taken place. – I did not say that because I knew the Court of Auditors report, but because I just looked into the annual reports. The liquidity situation, the strained liquidity situation – and in this context “stressed” is still an euphemism – was known. This can be seen from the books; as did the debt. At that time I got almost no answer to my questions. It was repeatedly referred by Minister Ostermayer to the forensic opinion. At that time, the Court of Auditors' report had been in the ministry for at least a month. There's nothing passing, nothing at all! In the opinion, lawyer Angermair points out, with regard to a possible responsibility of Bundestheater-Holding-Chief Springer, that you may not be able to do anything here either, because the report has been on the table for a long time and you haven't done anything. That is, the managing director assumed that one approves of his behavior, that the ministry is simply watching and doing nothing. The fact that the Republic may have caused a damage – I assume – will hopefully also show the court proceedings. But this also shows one thing: an unbearable salamitactic in the political processing of this causa. We've made the urgent inquiry. What happened? – Ostermayer has made nails with heads after the advice of Angermair and has released Hartmann. Okay. Then the loop has become tighter around Bundestheater-chef Georg Springer. But it has not been the consequence of calling him off, because it has not gone at all. Because you didn't do anything, he retired. And now, what am I going to experience today? What have I seen in the committee? – Now, section head Franz has been released for firing. Well, because I do not want to protect him, I also think that it was really very worrying what he did not say in a very long execution in the Court of Auditors Committee. This tactic is transparent. There's always something to be done if you don't have any other way. I bet we will soon be reporting that the ministry will be restructured and that such a solution will be found. The basic problem of this holding structure, and thus of the Burgtheater, was that neither the holding nor the ministry was actually interested in pursuing the meaning of disseminating, namely to make sure that a certain sum of money X is made available for a cultural policy mission, but that it is not always necessary to conduct the negotiations in the budget, but to proceed according to the principles of effectiveness, economy and efficiency. What we see as more than clear by the Court of Auditors report is that, as in many other cultural policy areas, we have ultimately relied on it – on the part of holding, on the part of stage companies, but also on the part of the ministry, and I think this is particularly worrying – that the banknote is starting again. The banknote is supposed to jump back, just no waves. I believe that this will also be made clear by looking at the evaluation report of the Bundestheater. I assume, or I know that there was a pre-version, which of course would have shown significantly more efficiency potential, but then you should have done something and perhaps put in place tough measures. One thing is clear: One can only do something about the staff flank, and that is a hard decision, you don't want to do that. I understand, that's hard. Especially in the artistic field, one will not be able to sell it as a cultural politician or cultural manager, that one might cancel actors. You didn't do anything and you didn't want to do anything. Seeing eyes have been allowed here to drive the Bundestheater to the wall, and has also paid off really rich bonuses. That's even the upper chuzpe in the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21778	The next item is the speech by Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21799	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the requirements of the Federal Minister Josef Ostermayer, whom he announced already in June of this year, that the structural reform of the Bundestheater-Holding must be speedily pursued, a complete and transparent clarification of the past and that the Bundestheater must be led into a secure future. This Court of Auditors report and the discussion in the last committee have shown that rapid action must be taken and necessary. Since we are dealing with today's report by the Court of Auditors on the subject of Bundestheater-Holding, in short for the spectators in front of the television screens: What is the Bundestheater-Holding? – The Bundestheater-Holding is owned by the Republic of Austria, manages an annual budget of around €240 million and employs a total of around 2,500 employees. She is the sole owner of three subsidiaries, the Burgtheater, the Wiener Staatsoper and the Volksoper, and is the majority owner of ART for ART Theaterservice GmbH, a non-insignificant organization in the Republic of Austria. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, many criticisms have already been raised by my previous speakers, which the Court of Auditors has included in its report, and also some comments from my side. The Court of Auditors' report refers to the fact that the business activity of the Bundestheater Group has always been negative in the financial years 2009 to 2012 and that during the period considered it has reduced its earnings of ordinary business by around 68 percent to minus €9.10 million. The Court of Auditors also points out that the holding of its strategic leadership did not comply with the fact that there were no multi-annual financing concepts in the Group itself and that the cultural sector was relatively late or not responding to budgetary development at all. Of course, for all those who were in the Committee and have read the report, it was incomprehensible how it could be achieved that € 8.9 million was paid to Gagen, Honors and Travel Costs in the reporting period. The Federal Minister has already pointed out that this has now been discontinued. I think the Bundestheater-Holding should focus on their main tasks again. These include the strategic management of subsidiaries, the group-wide controlling, the group-wide internal revision and the financial security of stage companies as a prerequisite for the fulfilment of a cultural policy mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21850	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21872	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The theatre around the theatre will soon be working on another bite in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. That's a good thing. There we have time to devote ourselves to this chapter, hopefully also with those persons we imagine. Mr President, Mr Moser, I think, however, that if I look at another chapter of the Court of Auditors, the auditors of the Court of Auditors will soon get a discount on room bookings in a quiet place in Styria, namely in Fohnsdorf. So far from two years, the Court of Auditors is looking past it, because there is something new again and again. This time it is not the municipality that was four years ago, now it is the training centre Fohnsdorf, an association that pursues a very useful purpose on its own, namely to set up vocational promotion measures, to hold training courses, whether this is for unemployed adults or young people who are taught in the absence of teaching places there. – Everything that matters and for itself very reasonable and supportive. Unfortunately, the whole thing has a crack point. It is a self-service shop that once again has a color, in this case the red one. Two years ago, scandals appeared there because of an anonymous writing, which once quite messed up this self-service shop. I don't want to tell the whole story now, it would take too long. The fact is, after a few months the then managing director has been canceled, of course not without causing a juicy damage. It made up around €120 000. Most of these were follow-up costs, but around a third were costs incurred due to improper cash benefits. I just don't understand one thing: why you never recover these services in the interest of taxpayers. That would be the least you have to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has also examined the order procedure of the current managing director there. That's interesting if you break the whole thing down on the tongue or question it. First of all, there have been only oral offers from consultants who should accompany this order. It's immediately decided who to do this. There has been an unmistakable system of points. As a result of this system of points, there have been personal discussions, and it was obviously no matter who has reached how many points. It was not a question of who has the most, who comes along, but that has been very much confused. Criteria were not met. Eight persons were imaginable for this position, should be invited to hear, seven were actually only invited, one with technical shortcomings was again invited to do so. So that's very interesting. Who came to the end? – A certain Mr. Edmund Müller, known in Styria as the semi-trailer SPÖ chief of Graz. He was first head of Joanneum Research, very good at the time, then he became a city councillor, head of SPÖ Graz, did not last long, resigned after six months, and after another year he became head of the training center Fohnsdorf. So if you let this break on your tongue again: We have a red club and an opaque, completely inadequate, undocumented, unmistakable occupation process. Friendship!, I can only say – actually, you have to change it: Friendship! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: How many were invited to hear? Eight?]] In fact, you should go back to Fohnsdorf training centre, Mr President Moser, because there are now very interesting developments. As a trainee wrote to me, some trainers, who are almost mentioned by name, improve their salary by calling on them – I quote – to register on the Lopoca gambling platform and to play real money, and also to advertise with stickers et cetera. They will then be seduced into using real money, which will then secure them the diplomas at the courses. So this is a very interesting accusation. In order to bring this matter to light, a question is being asked to the Minister responsible. I'm excited about what's coming out. We'll stay on it. Finally – because we have Fohnsdorf on the agenda again –: It is now four years since the Court of Auditors made massive accusations against the mayor in its report. Since then, justice has been established. This has not yet come to a conclusion – that is now four years ago – and it is not clear whether a complaint is filed or not. This is unreasonable to the taxpayer. But in the end, I have to say this honestly now – you can stand to the mayor, as you want, content, political, as always – that is also not human enough that a four-year wait and don't know whether he comes before the judge or not. That's not all right. I don't understand what's going on. This is also the subject of a question to the Minister for Justice, and I believe that we will get even closer to this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21925	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e21947	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! We are discussing Court of Auditors reports. In this case, I would like to comment on the audit report on the educational universities and take up the criticisms of the Court of Auditors. He reports about 28 different training facilities that we still have after the merger. This is, in fact, a landscape too far removed at training facilities. We have – and this too has been held by the Court of Auditors, thank you, President Moser, for putting your finger in the wound here – a double responsibility also with the ministries. We therefore have parallel structures both in training and in political competence. What we demand NEOS is a stronger focus, education from a single source. We demand an end to dualisms in education, because these dualisms are infinitely plump and, in case of doubt, have any ideological discussions in focus, but never the student, the student, never the trainee, the trainee. I can list you a few dualisms: Dualism number 1: Red and black. Red and black stick to the post-ordering in national school councils in five federal states. There, proporz continues to be bitterly fought. - Please get over! No one understands that we are going through administrative posts Party-politically. We don't need that. No one understands that. Dualism number 2: We sort our young people with nine and a half years in two pots: the one, the other. We break wings, we break talents, that's crazy. Dualism Number 3: We have educational universities and universities. One can do what others can, one is particularly good at technical education, technical didactics, namely the universities, the other are particularly good in pedagogy. What we need is a “best of” of both. This now works in some areas, but not in all federal states with the law on educational education. Mr Minister, you have brought this into the world; I think the law is good, but implementation is still weakening. We have to get out of this dualism. Therefore, the following application: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a contribution to bringing the talents into focus, bringing the trainees into focus, upgrading elementary education, and also contributing to the success of the co-design of teacher education. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22013	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Strolz is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22074	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22096	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I would need at least three minutes on and for myself to go into the individual areas. Mr Strolz is certainly right when he says that what has now been done in the framework of educational training is what is possible and can be optimally implemented. The two ministers, Mr Schmied and the daughters, have, as I believe, been very competent in opening up a new training rail, which is good and which will develop. In ten to fifteen years – you may still be there – it will be so far, as I believe, that you will have to implement the request you are now making, because the way is clearly the right one. It's just the content. The second issue I would like to address is Fohnsdorf. We must look at things in detail, including the accusations in detail, Mr Zanger. Much has already come out of the context here. I would also like to see your former colleague Grasser, because he too has an incredible pressure to know at last whether he is accused or not, whether there has been tax evasion or not. That would be very important once again. But now to that area, which has been at the centre of the debates so far, on the problem of Burgtheater. There is no question of relationship at all, as I believe, of doubt that there have been disastrous developments. If even leading auditors of Burgtheater GmbH confirm, after their conduct examination, that procedures and control measures are sufficient and effective and that they have also been passed on to the Ministry in 2009 and 2010, you can see how deep the whole was. I mean, here was the concrete opposite. There have been criminal acts, as I mean, that have been added; they have also to be clarified by the courts. The result – we all know it – was chaos pure. That is why I would like to thank you all the more for the really meticulous work and the detailed work on this issue by the Court of Auditors, which already has a lot of basic material to do – and which, with its 66 recommendations, has actually given important guidance and assistance, which makes it much easier for the current Minister of Culture to set the right course now. What you can say is: The new Minister of Culture has acted quickly, has caused human resources and has quickly withdrawn them. With the appointment of Rhomberg and Bergmann, he has provided competence and confidence, which, I think, was quite important. It has taken the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously and will take them seriously and has also taken them into account as part of the required analysis, and the Court of Auditors' recommendations on holding are also implemented. I mean, after the course is set correctly, we all hope together that the trains will then also go in the right direction. A sentence on the issue of the appointment of former ministers to the Court of Auditors Committee: We discussed very intensively, also internally: Shouldn't you? I can say that our cultural speaker wished for this, and the new Minister also said: Yeah, why not? We really put this on the balance: After the work that we have done so far due to the really good reports of the Court of Auditors, the good work in the Committee – I would like to thank several political leaders very much for the fact that the Court of Auditors' reports are being worked really well and objectively – now that there is also the possibility that a parliamentary minority can use the committee of inquiry, should the Committee of the Regions really make it a committee of inquiry? If there are, in fact, accusations to be prosecuted politically, then the opposition parties now have the opportunity to convene such a committee. That's what they're supposed to do. They also have the opportunity to convene the Subcommittee. This too will happen today, as I have heard. That's how it should be. That's their right, and they should have done that, they should have been doing it for a long time. There we can treat things further. But we do not want the Court of Auditors to be downgraded to draw up any party political accounts. This is not the committee's task. That's where we're fighting for the materiality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22157	Next, Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22178	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! In short, I would like to make a few comments to the educational universities, and I would like to say in principle: Here the Court of Auditors examined the structure of the Court of Auditors, and the reform has resulted in 14 pHs through the establishment of educational universities. Tirol and Vienna were tested. In principle, this has been quite positive. Of course, the quality that Austria offers in the training sector also has its price. Compared to the cost of € 101 million in 2008, an increase of 35 percent to € 135 million was achieved by 2012. For each student, an average of €14 400 was spent in Austria in 2012. The PH Tirol was around 2 100 euros higher than the cut, and in Vienna it was 4 000 euros less than in the Austrian average. – These figures are an indication of the cost-effectiveness that can be achieved by compaction, as solved and succeeded in Vienna. A comment on the administrative posts: The PH Vienna had 30 administrative posts less than its predecessors, while at the same time 160 more students. It would also be desirable that the same situation in the administrative field would also be in place at the Academy of Education in Tyrol. The law on training among educators and educators is in implementation, will only be completed in 2019. Further structural simplifications are expected, which will, of course, lead to relief for students. At present there are – already mentioned – many training situations and two competent ministries. As a result, the Court of Auditors' recommendation is very important that a specialisation be carried out before the implementation of further reform steps within the ministries and that the ministries provide a more efficient interface for the educational universities through fewer contacts. The training and further education courses and the online docu for the students were assessed positively. Overall, I think this transition has been very successful, and the educational universities are in principle on a very good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22224	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-91 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:37:19]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2013/7 (III-20/307 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22282	We arrive at the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22311	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! There was a potential for improvement in the management of distributed units and participations at both federal and national level and local level. For its review or cross-sectional audit, the Court of Auditors selected companies in accordance with the random principle. The number was 30. This affected the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, the countries of Burgenland and Salzburg, the city of Kufstein and the market municipality of Rankweil. One area included the female quota in the supervisory bodies, and the President of the Court of Auditors has already mentioned in the Committee that the female quota was one of the key issues in this Court of Auditors report. The Court of Auditors recommended that further efforts be made to raise the number of women in supervisory bodies. In my opinion, that is important and correct, because this issue has to be made aware of again and again. The women's ratio in the supervisory bodies of the participations was generally relatively low, with the Federal Ministry of Education, Art and Culture on average having the highest share and, according to the Federal Minister Ostermayer, he also acted in accordance with quotas repeatedly. However, I would also like to say that the proportion of women in the supervisory bodies of close-to-state enterprises has increased to 36 percent. That means, in turn, that the self-commitment of the federal government takes hold and goes in the right direction. Of course, awareness for more women in supervisory bodies needs to be heightened. If it took more time for women to be involved to increase the proportion of women, it would not only benefit women, but above all companies and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22349	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22370	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors has examined distributed and outsourced units and participations at federal, country and local level, and at the federal level the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture was examined, at the level of Burgenland and Salzburg and at the municipal level the municipality of Kufstein and the market municipality of Rankweil. This Court of Auditors report clearly shows that there is a need for optimization and action in the case of disbursements and that there is no guarantee, especially in the case of participations, when there are disbursements. The President made a clear statement in the Committee and said that outsourcing of the efficient use of resources must not be lost. The Court of Auditors recommends, however, that ongoing evaluations should be carried out to ensure that the criteria of effectiveness, efficiency and economy are met. Binding efficiency, participation, risk and target control must be applied. For example, in the field of the Ministry of Culture, the Court of Auditors recommends that different institutions of participation management should be merged into a single participation management. Overall, the Court of Auditors report - the previous speaker has already stressed it - saw the women's quota critically and called for an improvement in the mandate service in the Institutions, a clear separation between operational management and control and the provision of guidelines for objective and comprehensible selection in the recruitment of supervisory bodies. The Court also calls for uniform and systematic contract design and for uniform model contracts and model business regulations to be applied in all areas. Overall, this Court of Auditors report is a clear task that, in all outsourcings and participations, it is continuously examined whether the principles of effectiveness and economy are respected in the use of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22412	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22434	President of the National Council and the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly give you an insight into the Court of Auditors' graphic work, because Members will always make it easier for us to do so if the results of the Court of Auditors' work are clearly presented. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] Mr President, Dr. Moser, breakdowns and distributed units and participations are precisely predestined to be recorded graphically, because they show how the fields of action of individual ministries or, as this Court of Auditors report shows, the areas of action of individual countries are involved. Land Burgenland, Salzburg – as it were, the responsibility arises through outlays in a number of forms. With it in the discussion, with the examination, it is of course the task performance – and there the Court of Auditors has clearly criticised it. It is often not clear: What is the objective of dissemination? What is the task of distributed operations? Nor have the directives for the tasks been clarified. Then reports about the performance of these tasks – often not, often missing reports. Nor is the validity of the legal form often given – a further criticism of the Court of Auditors. And if we look at the order of management, most frequent violations of the stencil regulation are also to be found against the obligation to tender. So it is not written out – the Burgtheater Holding is the best example, the best negative example. Or: The managers' salaries, their height, the variable parts of the references are often not properly defined, not somehow fixed with targeting rates. They are defined as thumbs, and often in the cultural area, where we need every cent urgently for cultural offers, and not money for poor administration, for poor management. The Court of Auditors has listed cases. Or, finally, the guidelines for the objective selection of supervisory bodies: Also there is the purest either arbitrary or friendly economy. That is why I am grateful to the Court of Auditors every time he puts his finger in these wounds when he repeatedly urges us to stop the abuses here as a public hand, also as a controlling Parliament. There is also the content of the discussion in the Court of Auditors. That is why, Mr Mayer, it is so important that the Court of Auditors also has information available to us that gives us insight so that it becomes clear why it has come so far so that we can then prevent these shortcomings by measures, by means of future precautions. If you refuse to load certain information persons, you are prolonging the abuses and then do not allow us to remedy them in good time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The case example Schmied, Bundestheater-Holding is really a parade example in many ways. The discussion in the Committee - which you always describe as very, very serious and very objective in his discussion, which I also thank you for - has shown the Committee's work on the fact that Mr Franz says over and over again: Yes, these were the political conditions that we did not control the holding very closely, so we also extended the Treaty that the finances were running that way, because we hoped that in the future there would be more budget available that no efficiency measures had been taken! According to the head of section Franz, this was all due to the political conditions. And then you refuse to invite us to the committee the personalised political framework, namely the former Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yes, my goodness, what's the other thing than a refusal of control?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Ministers who are in office and dignity are allowed to come, they are to come, and they also come every time. It would be best if they were still present in plenary if we were to discuss the reports publicly, not only if we were to talk about them secretly in the Chamber. But to put former ministers under special protection now and to equip them with an extraordinary ministerial immunity is totally counterproductive, because we know how to defend ourselves. And you didn't mention any argument at all. You have only kept your “justament” in mind again and again. Not an argument, but justament – this is the policy of the government groups when it comes to loading ex-ministers and ex-ministers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It will also concern us with the chapter on municipal credit. That's what it says again: No ex-minister Pröll! No, about it, carpet over it and – I don't know what else – curtain on it or curtain on it! This is your method: without argument, really only from a point of view of justice, to prevent or make it difficult to control the regular control body of Parliament, in the Court of Auditors Committee. And the suggestion that we can do an investigation committee – I mean, that's just ridiculous! We do not want to inflation the Committee of Inquiry as the most important of all control bodies. We don't want to abuse him either. We also do not want to move the permanent regular committee of the Court of Auditors' check-ups into an additional committee of inquiry, but rather, in a parallel procedure, on the one hand, Court of Auditors' control, on the other hand, in the event of serious abuses and political explanatory statement, to carry out investigation committee control promptly, in addition to each other and not in competition, and not at all with the Committee of Inquiry as the Chamber of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly! Right!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] I can't. Mr President, I hope that something else will prevail on reason. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22524	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22545	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Estimated citizens! We are discussing today the Court of Auditors’ report, set out in the 2013/7 series, but apparently there is a favorite report, as the discussion shows, namely those on the distributed units and participations. This is not quite incomprehensible either, because it has a certain brilliance in it. The Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, two federal states – Burgenland and Salzburg – and also two municipalities – Kufstein and Rankweil have been examined. The Federal Ministry has found that there have been no guidelines for the exercise of participation management, evaluations have not taken place. Apparently, it was not always thought that the objective is to evaluate the performance of tasks – for example, whether one has chosen an appropriate legal form. Risk-controlling reports have failed or have simply not been implemented. There were no uniform patterns of management contracts, no rules of procedure for supervisory bodies and for managers, and, as we have already heard, the model contract presented often does not comply with the Federal Treaty stencil regulation. And especially in personnel matters, in the occupation of posts, there are more and more peculiarities, for example, re-orders that have been made without a call for tender, or contracts that have simply been extended before the end of the term of office. As a result, the total extension to the period has been imposed by the fact that the maximum duration of 5 years has been significantly exceeded. It's like a red thread. Although it does not concern us here in the House, what has been discovered in the countries and also in the municipalities in the context of the examination, it is already noted that there is a red thread going on and that very similar topics have always appeared in the examinations of the countries and communities, namely on the issue of the objective, namely the question of evaluation, on the question of controlling and, of course, on the staff occupations – or we call it friendly economy. And what I always find funny – and I am now at the end of it – is that the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues too always praise the Court of Auditors' reports and complain out loud, but the implementation is missing, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder – you are the government parties, you have the majority in this House, you have the opportunity to implement all of this –: Why always only words and praise, and in the implementation is it urgent? We NEOS will definitely look at the implementation! We will certainly look at these abuses, not only in the specifically audited ministry, but also in all the others, and make sure that there is a little more daylight coming in and that we see more transparency in the participations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22597	The provisional last speech on this item on the agenda is by Mrs Magistrate. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22618	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What is the content of this report? – We have the result of a cross-sectional check on the classification of the control of distributed units and participations. What was evaluated? – Es the participation policy, the participation management, the participation control and the mandate management were assessed. My previous speakers mentioned it in part: It has been located at really all levels of improvement – at federal, national and municipal level. For example, there were no guidelines for uniform, transparent and efficient performance through participation management. What, for example, is meant by that? – There were control guidelines at the federal level, but these were not used as best practice in the countries. There was some potential for improvement at national and local level in the reporting sector, and there were no uniform model contracts for the recruitment of managers, but also for the appointment of supervisory bodies. One point – it has already been cut short – was particularly criticised by the Court of Auditors, namely the low proportion of women in supervisory bodies. Perhaps it is precisely this recommendation of the Court of Auditors that is a good reason for adapting the rates of women to supervisory councils, especially in companies with federal or country interests. Or perhaps you can also take an example from the private sector, for example from the car industry, which is dominated by men and men in itself? – I'm talking about Daimler-Benz. There the management of the communication department has been transferred to a woman for 15 years – with success. She also got the overall responsibility for the product Smart. Why? – Because it not only had a financial and economic background, it was above all agreed that it should strengthen the company's sense of being in business. And that's actually what it's all about! Back to this report: What recommendations have already been implemented? – Fortunately, the recommendations at the federal level have already been implemented. Mr Hable, because you have complained that there is no implementation: At the federal level, there are these very well! Where we do not yet know exactly whether the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been taken up, the level of the country and the community is the same. The Court of Auditors is currently in demand procedures, i.e. we will be able to see the results of this in the activity report. I am confident that the recommendations already being followed at federal level will be implemented in the near future at national and local level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22676	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-20 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[21:56:47]] 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2014/4 (III-55/308 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22720	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mayer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22749	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors also reviewed the promotion of the educational institutions of the political parties between 2007 and 2011. I think it is worth noting that the party academies are among the best-tested units. They will be examined annually through the auditors and regularly every five years by the Court of Auditors, who again again made 15 recommendations, all of which have their hands and feet, which are also intended to be implemented. It is gratifying that one can actually say that the various political academies generally do good work. I can say here regarding our political academy, the Karl-Renner Institute, that there is also a very good work. [[Abg. New builder: Because the cap is there!]] The most critical point, namely that the Rules of Procedure were missing, was also corrected in July of this year, as a Rules of Procedure were adopted so that these matters were put on the same lines within the meaning of the Court of Auditors. There were also open questions. One, in which the new Federal Minister was not the Court of Auditors' opinion, is whether the Federal Chancellery should be able to examine content as a promoter. – This is a proposal from the Court of Auditors that Josef Ostermayer rejects as Minister of Culture – we had this debate in the Committee – because he says it has a certain flaw when a representative of a political party who is in it at the same time also takes into account the evidence of others. [[Abg. Kickl: Sounds reasonable!]] There we are, as I think, required to upgrade the advisory board and also to say that there is a corresponding debt. So the question is: How can the Advisory Board carry out this task, which is rightly put at the centre, without having to introduce this “spinning” – which it would in a sense be –? Of course you are right in this matter, Mr President Moser, but I still believe that the arguments of the Federal Minister have their reasons. The second area is that it is certainly true that we have to amend the Public Service Promotion Act in several areas. Firstly, with regard to the question of what happens when a political grouping is no longer there and assets have been created, to whom these benefit, then to the subject discussed with the loans – one may give loans, and if so, in what form and to whom; even that belongs legal regulation, that is not at all a question – and finally concerning the question of what happens to funding funds that are not or are not spent equal, i.e. a question concerning reserves. I think it is worth seeing ourselves together once in the framework of the Court of Auditors' Group speakers, thinking about this and then putting these things on a legal basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22810	Mr Ottenschlager is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22831	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to say briefly to Mr Hable, because he has so to speak, that no implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations takes place, that this is largely incorrect: Many suggestions are being put forward by the Court of Auditors. Apart from that, he deserves praise from our Members because his reports are a good basis for us to live up to our role in Parliament. So I can only express this praise once again. Thank you for your work! For the present report: It is about the Court of Auditors' report on the "Promoting Citizens' Education Work in the Education Institutions of the Political Parties". I think – I also want to make a confession to this system – that citizenship education is a crucial question for a well-functioning democracy, and ultimately it is also about increasing the quality of our political work. Of course, these academies also have the core task of contributing, so to speak, to political education, education and training. In summary, this task will be very positive. I would like to mention a number of things so that we can know what amount of financial resources is going on here: In the review period between 2007 and 2011, a little over €56.5 million was distributed to these institutes; not always in the same amount, between €10 and €12 million per year. The funding has been lowered twice in recent years. This – and with it I come to the criticisms of the Court of Auditors, which is to be taken seriously – has led to the fact that the proportion of staff costs in relation to training is somewhat too high, with most academies on this very positive path. Let me conclude by saying that there are just a few open points. There are proposals for improvement which we want to take seriously, which we want to consult to make this good system of education and training on an even better basis, so to speak, to take account of the Court of Auditors' thoughts and to implement the improvements here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22868	Next, Mrs Moser has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22889	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! May I ask you, perhaps, three or four questions on the orientation of educational work? Is it a task of educational work to ensure that political parties receive cheap loans at 1% interest? Question two: Is it a task... – Yes, we are already making the connection for tomorrow, for Question Time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] – Question two: Is it a task of an educational institution to coach prominent party leaders personally? Question No 3: Is it a task for an educational institution to produce a comic book for an EU election campaign and pay it at the expense of this party academy? Question No 4: Is it a task of a party education institution to pay the whole price for certain trainings of party officials? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I believe that almost everyone believes that this is not the task of an educational institution of a political party, but rather the task of offering training that serves to promote the democratic basis and the political craftsmanship training of employees and interested parties. – That is, I believe, the core of the educational task. The report by the Court of Auditors, for which I would like to express my warm thanks again, has led to abusive practices which have unfortunately occurred, namely, abusive practices which are clearly – I now call them by name – with the Freedom Party. The examples all come from this report. Although the Court of Auditors has also criticised all other party academies of different nuances, I must say that I do not support them to the extent and to the extent that I am unfortunately with you. [[Abg. Kickl: That you always want to regulate everything for everyone, we know that anyway!]] That we want to remedy, you also said, I thank you for that. The fact that my proposal is generally seen as positive by all six parties in this Parliament, so to speak, to put the financial management of education work and also the control of political education work together on new legal legs is also very recognized. I would also like to thank you for your commitment that we will amend and clarify the Journalistiksgesetz – in which direction, thank you, Mr Mayer, has already carried out – and that, secondly, we will also improve the guidelines for the Advisory Board, for it seems to me that this Advisory Board, which also advises on the use of the funds, has commissioned an opinion at the comic book, which he has yet to pay for it from his own resources, and then there has been advice and the Advisory Board, however, has not taken a decision. There has been so to speak no decision regarding this comic book, and that is really more than strange. That is why we need this six-party consensus towards reforming the whole system, because we are not only guilty of taxpayers, we are also guilty of electors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22951	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e22973	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! I should like to stress, as my previous speakers have already said, that the educational institutions of all parties do a very valuable and important task, as I mean. They are responsible for political education and for deepening knowledge, but also for building up international educational work. The Court of Auditors does not question this work per se, but rather the partly misused use of resources. If one reads the report carefully, a number of at least questionable practices and procedures are immediately identified. I do not want to address this explicitly now, but one thing is already striking: If you look at the number of conclusions and recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, you can see very quickly which parties or bodies have more adhered to the laws and regulations and which have thus maintained a more relaxed approach. At the Political Academy – I can now come to the figures – there were 12 recommendations or final remarks in this respect, at the Karl Renner Institute of SPÖ there were 14, at the Green Education Workshop 16 – then it is already going up – at the future Academy Austria of the BZÖ at least 25 and at the Free Education Institute there are the outstanding number of 33. If you count the four recommendations concerning the Freedom Academy, we are proudly 37 recommendations and conclusions, which are at least three times as many as at the ÖVP. As I said, the numbers alone already have a certain power of statement, and everyone can make their own rhymes on it. It has also been mentioned that some educational institutions have been criticised for the significant lending of loans to the parent parties. These have been repaid again, but I do not believe that this is within the meaning of the Public Promotion Act. Here, I join my predecessor, too, and I need more clarity. That's where we're called. However, we are also required on the question – that was also addressed – what happens if the eligibility is no longer given. – We have had two cases in this regard in recent years: once at the BZÖ, because it is no longer represented here, and also at the Freedom Party, because the Freedom Academy was not transferred, but a liberal educational institution was re-founded. There is the question of what happens with unused means: Can they be recovered, and what happens to the reserves? [[Abg. Street: spend for education!]] That's clear. We should really put ourselves together, because there are clear rules that need to be made. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e23009	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e23031	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs. Moser, since you're always making very reasonable lady here now and playing the Morala Apostle, let's just say one thing to you, from my point of view: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]] We have dealt with a chapter that has also shed light on the staff situation in the academies, and one has insisted that it is the only and only the Freedom Academy, where there is very little personnel effort. Why this is so, I can only draw my own conclusions, namely: These facilities are thought to be supply facilities for the other parties. Obviously, there are no longer so many people to transport their content. We are grateful to God in a better and smarter and more sensible situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the topic of the innovative element comic: Especially in the face of an ever-increasing political stardom, I am glad and proud that my academy has managed to rekindle interest in politics in Austria. I like it, it's actually worth it. That's something that deserves imitation. You'd like to make a comic yourself, figures you'd have enough in your ranks.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e23070	Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e23091	Mr President. High house! On today's agenda there are a total of 16 reports from the Court of Auditors. This shows that the Court of Auditors is very active and deals with all areas of culture on education, on health and on the environment. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to the problems of transport, transport and safety, as well as IT. This work – as it has been expressed today – has fallen on very grateful ground and is always appreciated. I would very much like to give this thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors. It was even the point here that, for example, the report on transport and on transport associations has almost the quality of habilitation, as honourable Member Willi said. That motivates and also shows that you appreciate the quality accordingly. In this context, I would also like to thank you very much for the fact that the Court of Auditors' reports have been discussed very well and, at the same time, very objectively. And today, in the context of this debate, seven reports have been clearly and very clearly discussed in several hours by the 16 reports. Thank you very much! At the same time, however, I would also like to point out that the Court of Auditors has an effect. From the three follow-up reviews on the agenda today, it can be concluded that of 33 recommendations which the Court of Auditors has reviewed regarding their implementation, 29 have been implemented or are in implementation. Unfortunately, it is always the case that, especially in those areas where the interaction of several local authorities is necessary and at the same time there is a need for system change, the will to implement is ending. If we look at the audits on the agenda today, we can see where there is a need for reform in terms of more efficient use of resources and more efficient governance. This shows, for example, reports related to culture, in particular those on the Bundestheater-Holding. Considering reports relating to education, one sees again and again that there is also a need for reform. For example, 42 departments and 6 sections are responsible for educational colleges alone. It is very difficult to do so, as it is actually targeted. There is also a need for action in the distribution of funds between local authorities, and this can be done better. This shows, for example, the report on transport associations and the report on health. Since the report on the cooperation of the Federal Government and countries in the field of health care has not been discussed in the Committee on Health and Health at the time of the AKH Vienna, and has not been discussed today, I would like to point out that this report shows that inefficiency and double-tracks in the health system lead to massive impairments in the performance of tasks. The AKH is, I believe, the most cost-intensive hospital in Austria. More than € 1 billion per year will be spent on current costs alone. The AKH is responsible for central care in eastern Austria and for multiplying the research performance of a medical university. In spite of this, there are always difficulties, disagreements, conflicts, because on the one hand, the municipality of Vienna is responsible and on the other side of the Federation. The question is: Why do problems arise again and again? At the same time, the supply suffers from the latter consequence. The reason is that, on the one hand, decision-making and financing responsibilities are separate, but on the other, the areas of responsibility are interwoven. Despite 25 years of effort, it has not succeeded in establishing joint management. There are different responsibilities. The performance of the task is: it is not clear: on the one hand, as far as medical care is concerned, on the other hand, as regards the scientific field. There is no common service mandate in this context, there is no joint overall financing, no joint personnel planning, no joint management structure, no cross-judgment budgeting, no medium-term planning, no common reporting, and the provision of funds is complex at the same time. We have a collegial leadership at the AKH, which is the medical director and the administrative director and at the same time the care director. They are responsible for the staff of the municipality of Vienna. On the other hand, we have a rector responsible for the federal staff, namely all doctors. This means that the medical director does not have the opportunity to carry out the statutory oversight obligations that he has to pay. The doctors, since there is no joint planning, at night service, that is, they operate when emergencies occur. The operating sisters are at the same time servants of the municipality of Vienna, they have regular service during the night. This means that their utilization is between 17 percent and 54 percent. A delegation of tasks to the care staff does not take place, because the city of Vienna would have to pay for the costs if the task was to be relocated from the doctors to the nursing staff. At the same time, the League would benefit from it. That is, an economically required process requires an overall view. But this one is missing in this area. What this leads to shows the bedlocks that have existed in the last six years. These have led to additional costs of more than € 320 million. 40 percent of the bed locks were caused by missing care posts or by high downtimes. In other words, in order to ensure the recognised position of the AKH in the future within the meaning of patients, it would be necessary to lay down a regulation on future financing of the AKH to ensure that the responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing is as high as possible. The Court of Auditors therefore welcomes the fact that measures have been taken in this direction. I wanted to explain with these statements that we have potential in the health field in particular to carry out tasks in the sense of the patients more targeted and at the same time more favourable. I wanted to explain this to you so that you can once again see what the Court of Auditors means by structural reforms and where the potential in the system is actually present. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the very constructive cooperation. I would also like to thank the fact that, as has been announced by honourable Member Mayer, the Court of Auditors' recommendations are to be implemented in connection with the outcome of the examination, which concerns the appropriate use of funding in the field of education. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e23180	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-55 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:19:03]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-10-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00044_d7e23219	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 683/A(E) to 722/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2773/J to 2814/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 10 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
