ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2272	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. Deputies Pendl, Steger and Ing are reported as prevented. Lugar. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2300	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Sebastian Kurz is the Federal Minister for Interior Power. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[09:05:17]] Assignments
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2336	I'm showing the government's plans. The Federal Act amending the Basic Tax Act in 1987, 101 d.b., and Federal Act approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, 126 d.b., to the Budget Committee. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2375	In order to be able to negotiate item 3 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna (043 HV18/14a) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strache (127 d.b.). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2408	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - I don't see anyone. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2432	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 88, FPÖ 81, Green 68 as well as Stronach and NEOS per 36 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – That is unanimously decided. [[09:07:21]] 1. Point First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2014 (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2014 – BFG 2014) together with investments (50 d.B.) 2. Point First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2015 (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2015 – BFG 2015) together with investments (51 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2481	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2509	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is always dependent on the framework conditions, and the framework conditions include economic growth. And especially in the context of the 2014 and 2015 budgets, one has to say that for this year we are predicted to have very weak economic growth of 0.4 percent, that is, very thin and close conditions. This is a much weaker economic growth than we expected a few years ago. In 2014 we expect a slight recovery, and therefore budgetary policy also means supporting this slight recovery positively. Stable finances are... – Report [[Abg. Rossmann: We already have this! ... last year...!]] You just, then we can hear your wisdom afterwards! [[Abg. Kickl:... your wisdom!]] Stable finances are, in any case, a prerequisite for prosperity, and economical economies, which, whatever is called for so strongly, is, of course, also a fundamental standard of behaviour for the departments and the individual ministers. And that is so, it is also evident from the fact that the last three years of the execution are always below what the proposal has provided. This means that, within the framework of its possibilities, each minister has tried, where possible, to operate better than it was specified by the regulations. Circular economy, ladies and gentlemen, also means that this is not one-dimensional to discuss. It is about economy, budget, economic growth and the labour market – and all these factors, including tax revenue, depend on each other. In spite of the most difficult economic conditions in the last few years – “economic crisis” – we have not only come up with such a concept, but unfortunately also fully in reality – with 4.8 percent unemployment for us, which is far too high for us, but nevertheless one that is the lowest in the European Union in European comparison. We can also assess the budget – yesterday's discussions on this matter – always by trying to find out which of the two government parties has realized how strongly in the budget. How much is SPÖ? How much is ÖVP? – I believe that the important thing for the Austrians is that it is a common stable budget and that one of the key factors in this stable budget is social security. Social security is a prerequisite for stable finances and is also the central point in this budget. 7 billion € are budgeted and spent on labour market policies, both active and passive labour market policies. Of these, € 370 million are special programme for older workers, 50+, and the training guarantee for young people is fixed and budgeted because it is a basic condition to keep the economic cycle alive, but also to ensure social peace in our country. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] We find €3 billion for social things in the budget. This includes topics such as the care fund or the 24-hour care. And let me say in this regard, I am also pleased that yesterday the Styria has decided to abolish the care regime because this is also a social progress in our country. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The social sector, even if it is budgeted in the health budget, also includes the dental clamps, the dental regulation for those people who need them medically, for the children and young people in our country, as well. And I would like to say here again: That NEOS simply say so cynically neoliberal, everyone should regulate their teeth and pay themselves, that's unfair, that's cynical. We want this to be financed for those people who need it, and that is guaranteed in this budget. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Lopatka.]] However, I would also like to say that it is important, on the one hand, to ensure justice on the other hand. This is about the restriction or higher taxation of managers' salaries, as it is about limiting group tax, because it is about abolishing or strengthening the taxation of the Golden Handshakes and also limiting profit-shifting and all these issues, where corporate tax law no longer pays fair taxes and this package now also gives more tax justice. [[Abg. Kickl: And what about the drivers?]] However, tax justice also includes the fact that tax fraud and tax evasion are at last strongly combated. That is why I am also in favour of setting up 500 additional taxpayers because they will ensure that those who are trying to get past the Fiscus will have to notice that it is no longer possible, but that any tax evasion is also pursued. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Lopatka.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is also a matter of tax justice to ensure a tax reform at some point. A tax reform means for me to ensure a simpler, fairer tax structure, to achieve a shift in the burden from labour to wealth, and above all, to ensure, in the near future, a relief from labour – says: a relief from workers in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] This means, for example, that the entry tax rate is reduced to 25 percent. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Little.]] You know that in our group we have already explained the ideas as we imagine them. Together with the coalition partner and the experts, we will also work in the coming weeks and months to ensure that this tax relief, this tax reform for Austria is launched, because this is also an urgent prerequisite: that in the coming years the economy will be supported by such a wave of relief. This will be the next step to be taken, and the next budget debate will take place. Now we are discussing this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2636	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2658	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the debate started yesterday evening when we, the clubmen, were in a round in the ORF. That's where it was clear to me again: Actually, the opposition doesn't come up much. I thought of a movie where it says: “The same procedure as every year.” – And it’s like dinner for one: [[Stuppers! call as well as other calls at the FPÖ.]] When the Minister of Finance presents the budget, it is so that the opposition – as always – says: That's terrible! The clubman of the liberals even took the word misery into his mouth yesterday: He meant what the situation was like in Austria. – When I went through the city in the early morning, I found a different picture. [[Call the SPÖ: A beautiful city!]] Yes, we have challenges, big, serious challenges, but this federal government will solve these challenges, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This budget has a big objective, and at the beginning of this legislative period, this Federal Government has a big project: after the five years, it should be better for people here in the country. That is our common task on which this coalition is working. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] And the first basis for this, the first step, is the budget presented yesterday by the Minister for Finance, because this budget, ladies and gentlemen, has clear priorities. It is a good budget: for the families in the country, for the economic location and for research, for the security of the country and also for youth, because the budget is ambitious. Starting in 2016, creating this structural zero deficit is an objective that has not achieved a federal government here in the country in the last 50 years. And in order to achieve this goal, we must tackle two areas. One thing is, of course, reforms – without reforms, the individual ministers will not be able to achieve the objectives, and we have agreed on them together, so that we can implement this ambitious project in 2016 – and the other, we also have to say: The figures would look quite different, we would not have the heritage – one can say, the FPÖ heritage – from Carinthia, the heritage of this Carinthian Landesbank, and I emphasize: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Landesbank. Look Turn on the numbers! Without Hypo, the budget would have a completely different face. [[Abg. Kickl: Then you wouldn't have made them national!]] The debt ratio would not be 79 percent, it would be more than 5 percent lower. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Investigation Committee!]] It is even more evident in the deficit. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Investigation Committee!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in deficit has almost doubled through the hypo: from 1.3 percent to 2.7 percent. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: So: argument for an investigation committee!]] Yeah, that's dramatic. That is dramatic, but this federal government is carrying out this task, and we will present this hypo solution here in Parliament before the summer. [[Abg. Kickl: And who made it national?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Who made it national?]] Then we'll see if you're willing to take responsibility for what you've done. [[Abg. Kickl: Who made it national?]] – I'll tell you! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I understand your nervousness. As a Carinthian, as one who was very close to Jörg Haider and sitting here in the first row today, I would also be nervous. There I would be nervous too, Mr. Secretary-General Kickl! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Mr. Unterrainer...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You were very close to the emergency state!]] In addition to this backpack, which we have to school here, we also have the strength for offensive measures. I talked about a good budget for the families. It is not easy to provide more than 800 million additional for family support and more than 400 million for the expansion of school day care! The gears have been addressed: In particular, families with a narrow budget will certainly be very grateful for this measure. But the basis for this is and we will never lose sight of the fact that, through its economic performance, the companies continue to be at the forefront of Austria's jobs. [[Abg. Kickl:... your performance!]] That is why we are doing everything we can to do something here for the companies to relieve them and not to burden them. In this legislative period, it will be an amount of € 1 billion, which is already fixed by the reduction in the additional wage costs, by the company tax which has been changed by us here. This should also be the basis for the calculation, as well as the security of the country. More than 1,000 police officers – you can't just wipe this off the table. I'll tell you one thing: The opposition will have to decide. On the one hand, it is always said that what is being done here is too little ambitious. On the other hand, if something is done – as is done by the Minister of the Interior, a structural reform, more police officers on the street, fewer hours of office – that is then immediately criticized by you; a terrible tamtam is put on. That is why I tell you, you have to decide: Either you support the Federal Government in the reform measures, or you do not! [[Abg. Neubauer: Don't talk about reforms! This is not a reform!]] We decided: Stop making debt in 2016! Let us create room for the future, in the interests of the young people of the country and in the interests of our people!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2922	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e2944	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in the High House and in front of the TV screens! It has been said a lot before, of course, that you have to deal with and that I am going to deal with. We heard a lot yesterday in Mr Finanzminister's budget speech. I say that what we have heard was relatively empty, packed in many headings, and actually very disappointing. I would like you to return to the tradition of pre-pressing a final speech in the future, because this PowerPoint presentation and then your yesterday's budget speech were not the yellow of the egg, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Read it again!]] I really wonder if you are still taking yourself seriously in some areas, if you are talking about it again and again, just like all the finance ministers since 2006: The trend turnaround is now under way! Don't make any more debts! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Since 2006, we have heard precisely these terms in all budget speeches: the trend change, no debt, we are the ones who look at taxpayers, that they do not suffer too much tax burden! – We have heard that again and again since 2006. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] Now we have 2014, and you can buy it again! But reality is always another. That's exactly what it's all about: This is no longer serious to take, you promise this trend change since 2006. [[Abg. Krainer: There was no budget speech, 2006!]] Since 2006, you have promised that we will finally receive tax reductions. Today we have the highest tax rate in the Second Republic with over 45.3 percent, the highest tax rate! You strangle the economy, you strangle the citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say you should be careful to finally make the state economical – finally save and make the state slim, not make citizens slim! But that's exactly what I'm saying. Your approach: They're always trying to turn on the control screw. They do not lead the country through the crisis positively and out of the crisis, they lead the crisis through the country, otherwise it cannot be described. [[Abg. Wives: Bullshit! Which country are you talking about?! Thank you, FPÖ!]] [[Member Eßl shows a tablet with the title: “Hypo Carinthia: Thank you FPÖ!”]] When you go back and forth and call the hypo the one main reason why you can't keep your promise of not making new debts, ensuring tax relief, I ask you: Has the Hypo stopped you in recent years since 2006 finally to take the necessary administrative, state reform and health reform steps? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Did the hypo have you in the grip that you don't take steps in the administration so that the state is finally made slimmer? - No! And if you keep taking the hypo again and again, just as Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka does today, I'll hold: Yeah, there's this co-responsibility you're talking about! Yes, there has been a acceptance of liability of the Federal State of Carinthia under the head of state Jörg Haider, who has increased these liabilities – with the consent of SPÖ and ÖVP in the Carinthian Landtag, where you were involved in these decisions. [[Hö-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Yes, there is this responsibility, but now I come to the sole responsibility of Red-Black: Who made the bank national without need? [[Abg. Lopatka: What does “without need” mean?- Oh, my God!]] That was the SPÖ and the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have made this nationalization crazy and released the Bayern from responsibility! That was red-black, there a shark no longer lived, there the FPÖ was not there. That was exclusively red-black responsibility from the time. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Completely wrong!]] Who for years has done nothing in this responsibility of nationalization, where a settlement should have taken place? – Red and black, only They were also the sole responsible in the second point of responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Who has failed in the supervision of the financial market? – Your red-black experts, who will also advise you in the Task Force; Your third sole point of responsibility. And who at the end, after years of inactivity, did not guarantee, as proposed by experts, an insolvency which taxpayers would not have made the paymasters, but asked creditors and speculators to cash out? – No, you have returned 100 percent of the damage to the taxpayer – red and black responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that you are an investigative committee for the 17th century. Once you have refused: so that you can ultimately take your own responsibility here as an arsonist. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But that's not going to happen in the long run. Many Austrians today have also seen how developments can really be assessed. [[Call at ÖVP:From the perpetrator to the victim!]] If we now evaluate the budget and look at it, well, then we actually come to the budget of the records, to a budget, where it is said again and again, also by the Minister of Finance: No new debts! – Well, there will be further debt by 2018. We have a record debt: a record government debt that increases to 79.2 percent of the gross domestic product – well known without outsourced areas, without ÖBB, without ASFINAG, without municipalities. If we were to count on this, as many in the European Union demand, we would probably already be more than 90 percent. That is where we already have Portuguese budgetary relations. That's exactly it, because it's always being unfairly done, and there's sham. You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have said before the election and in the election campaign that there will be the detachment of the economy, there will be no new taxes. As soon as your election promise with the change of tax law was broken, which you decided immediately after the election – that was quite remarkable. With the tax increase, you will have around € 780 million in addition to the state fund, which you have decided, and from 2015 and 2016 it will be € 1.2 billion, which will be generated in addition. In addition, there is the cold progression that devours citizens, with over €2.1 billion a year – a tax that ultimately refreshes the citizens. This is a double budget as a reflection of a federal government. Mr Lopatka, one manages a negative state that we have had for years, one is unseemly, one does not go here and does what is necessary. There is a lot to be done: We have the highest tax rate of 45.2 percent. We have a government debt, which has a record level, we have a budget deficit that also exploded to 2.7 percent in addition, we have an economic growth that has rightly been addressed by the Clubobmann Schieder, which is forecast only at 0.5 percent. [[Call the ÖVP:Hypo!]] [[Abg. Wooker: Wrong again!]] Some say that there is a danger of going towards recession development. We have a development – 0.5 percent is the forecast. [[Abg. Krainer: That was last year!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] You should listen, not always call in because you are obviously unable to follow content, Mr Krainer! Private consumption is stagnant to falling. That means we need action now! We need state, administrative and health reforms. The health reform must finally be financed from a pot, at last there must also be a uniform hospital plan throughout Austria, at last also the cots and the cots must be designed accordingly, as it is at last efficient! [[Call to the ÖVP: We have already decided!]] We should not save on safety, as you do, Mr Lopatka, where 5,000 police are missing, but 1 000 are promised! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: 1,000 in addition!]] We have around 5,000 police officers less than 1999. Instead of ensuring 5 000 additional planning sites, lock the police guards. This is your policy: Save the wrong spot, that is, save safety where crime increases. If we close police guards, then everything becomes safer, we close hospitals, after your diction we will probably get healthier, we close school classes in the future, then we will fail! That's obvious. Your political strategy, but certainly not a responsible one for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must now finally take decisive discharge steps. There is a need for a reduction in additional wage costs, a reduction in the tax rate on input and the average tax rate for service providers. We finally have to relieve the economy, and we have to relieve the service providers, the workers and the employees so that the economic cycle can be set in motion so as to counter recession and make economic growth possible, so that unemployment is reduced and this, like today's record unemployment, continues to explode! [[Abg. Lopatka: That's what we do!]] That would be necessary and responsible, and exactly there you are not willing to place the appropriate actions. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is not a beer tent!]] This is exactly what continues to push the economy off and also leads many businesses to lose their knowledge and some – up to the point – due to all the mismanagements. Your policy even goes here and say: We are no longer investing in Austria for the next ten years, but in South America, because we are not willing to invest here under these bad and expensive conditions with penalty fees that we have to pay €60 million. [[Abg. Krainer: not too in America!]] This is the risk of location, industrial and economic danger that you are responsible for! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Is not a single number, nothing right!]] Unfortunately, these are the results of God, and the citizens feel embarrassed when they face up to yesterday's budget speech and the facts that we stand before today. Yes, these are difficult times, but in these difficult times to put the wrong actions, it makes it twice as difficult and twice as dangerous for the future, because it has to bathe out the young generation. The young people who sit in school today and are about to get into the work process and then have to do exactly this incredible record state debt in the coming decades – if you are all sitting in your luxury board, which unfortunately is not affected by the old politicians from Franz Vrannitzky to Karl Blecha or Khol, as it would be necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: What about the Steger's pension?]] You should sit there once, but there you sit in pension and is far, far away as you are responsible! The damage is done, other responsibilities must then remove your damage and try to correct it. I say that is also the reason why so many citizens are angry, angry, even devoured, and rightly say that something has to change in this country! [[Abg. Krainer: What about the climber?- Oh, my God!]] Yes, it's important! It will also be important for the forthcoming EU election to go to the election, because if one does not go to the election, it is precisely this burden policy that is supported, then one supports precisely the centralist misdevelopments of an EU bureaucracies. That is why it is important to go and miss out on these two parties SPÖ and ÖVP a monument that has washed itself – because they only understand one language, namely loss of power. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is only then that you are ready to think about it and agree to the committee of inquiry, perhaps finally to take direct democracy seriously and finally to let the citizens decide on it. That would be very time-consuming, and I say that there will be a lot more need for you to get to reason there. We will make our contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3319	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3348	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm trying to do something positive at the beginning [[Abg. Krainer: Find something critical!]] In the weeks and months before the National Council elections, we have always pointed out that what was presented to the budget in May was actually a beautiful mutilation and essentially a concealment of the real cost of the bank package and the hypo cost and that it was basically a budget lie with which one went into the National Council election campaign. This has not been forgotten by many in the population, and many of them have become extremely angry, because one does not want to be lied about. I can understand that very well. This budget is now more transparent because the cost of bank packages and the Hypo Alpe-Adria de facto are on the table. What is not on the table – and this is the unfortunate – is your consent to a hypo-examination committee. Now the cat is really out of the bag, it is clear that the net burden of the Austrian population, net of the bank packages, is almost €8 billion, until today it is €7.7 billion. If one puts this in relation to the sums we otherwise fiercely argue about, namely the cuts in education, for example, almost €60 million, then that is not a relation. The delay costs alone, the inability to make a decision on how to reduce the hypo, the solution found here, have cost as much as the cuts in the educational budget for ten long years. [[Abg. Krainer: I don't think so! That's absurd!]] – Yes, you just need to sum up one and one thing, that’s no problem at all. It is absurd that you continue to refuse to look into this area and make the necessary control with an investigation committee that such a thing never happens again. [[Abg. Krainer: You must not believe everything the Kogler says!]] That's what no one understands. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] The emergency nationalization, the delay, the infinite consulting costs, spend €300 million alone for consulting – this could not be earned by many people in centuries of working time. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity!]] We would have liked to look at all of this. The loads are now transparent, but the causes and, above all, the consequences that must never happen here are still not transparent. We will not stop and do not give up until you clear the way to carry out the necessary investigations. I guarantee you that! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. New builder.]] There can be no talk of a trend change at all, as has been said. There are now two budgets, those for 2014 and those for 2015, which essentially do not contain reforms. Now to say to the population: We start in 2016 with the discharge!, is really a fairy tale and is also a sand-in-the-eye-of-population scatters and not fair. There is no room for relief if there is not a massive start to reform – but there is nothing to be seen from the latter, on the contrary. One of the most important projects, such as the foresting of the jungle, double-tracks up to trigly as far as economic promotions are concerned, was cancelled last week. That was still in the old budget, with half a billion savings volumes. This has disappeared. At the school administration, we heard from the Federal Chancellor last week, we finally take it, but there are no concrete measures in this budget. And that is why it is so unfair to promise discharge to the population for 2016 without making reforms. We will insist that these reforms come, and you can rely on them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mitterlehner.]] I hear intervening calls here, the Minister of Economic Affairs is just murmuring about reforms in the budget. [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: He speaks relatively clearly!]] – I can't understand you, but that doesn't matter, we can talk later. [[Call to the ÖVP: Hear the truth!]] I would also like to say something about science, Mr. Wissenschaftsminister, as you have already urged yourself: So this is really a blamage, where we know that in this sensitive area, which is so relevant for the future, for economic development, for location development, for innovation and research, we have such a huge gap. And whoever like you, as a minister of science, has such a gap, should not say anything from the government bank at all! I think that's really blamable. [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: The Blamage is that you cannot read!]] This National Council has concluded several times: Research, development 2 percent of economic performance – none of it is in the budget! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] They hide behind a petition of the scientific community, which is so desperate because it knows exactly what that means for young researchers, for basic research, which is shortened: no single cent in addition to the universities – Austria in 2014! I think that's a bankruptcy statement, I'm really sorry. [[As a result of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the measures to be taken by the Member States in order to ensure that the aid is compatible with the common agricultural policy and with the common ……]] [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: Read the numbers once!]] A central part of the Austrian climate and environmental policy – and I do not really understand for that, and I believe that many people who have been involved in the communities for climate protection and energy change in Austria have not understood it either – the Climate and Energy Fund is being halved de facto. There is a reduction in the overall environmental budget, with the climate and energy funds, of almost €200 million. I'll tell you: Future policy looks different! That's what the next generation belongs to: Environmental protection, education, science, research. In precisely these sensitive areas, the lawn mower method is shortened without setting priorities without understanding – and this should not be different – that these areas should be taboo. This is a witness to poverty for me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nearly 2.5 million people are at home in communities that participate in these climate protection projects, i.e. soft mobility, e-mobility, transition to renewable energy sources, independence of a community of gas and oil price increases. Very important projects in the regions are thus cleared. And I'm wondering, Where is the new Minister for the Environment? - He's not here. Is that the way it used to be? – Agriculture is important, okay, to which I agree, and the environment is not important?- Oh, my God! So if this is the announcement of the new Minister for the Environment, from which I have hoped a lot, I have to take this optimism that I have, I think, significantly dampen and take back. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A final sentence on family hostility: This budget is supposed to be family-friendly, and you argue that with the increase of family support, which amounts to €800 million by 2018. This is, of course, an impressive amount as far as the sum is concerned. But keep in mind the situation of the families: A family receives between 4 and 6 € per child in the final development! At the same time, it is discussed that the partner or the partner should work perhaps 12 hours a day. At the same time, it is expected that schools will not be further expanded throughout the day, that this will be pushed back. I really wonder how to get there as a modern family in everyday life. They're yelling now, but the project all day school, a core SPÖ project, is being pushed back again and again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] They know exactly how important it is to live a modern family life in order to reconcile work and family life. 2014 the project has been cancelled! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Arbitrators and Krainers.]] - That's not wrong! No, no, no, At the same time, discuss They don't mind the 12-hour workday and say it's not that bad. I believe that the trade union is also failing at this very central point. These are central questions for me as far as family policy is concerned, namely compatibility and, above all, the opportunity to know the children well cared for. That's one of the central questions. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I know why you're so upset: because this is a core project of yours that you've now had to take back. I don't know why you're so upset now. Obviously, I really hit the black one here. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Can you stop yelling? Why Scream You're with me like that? That's incredible. You can speak and explain why you have de facto given SPÖ policy. [[Abg. Krainer: I've already signed in!]] But I really see this as serious – no! Okay, now you really provoked me. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What happened to the millionaire tax? What has become of the priority for education? What has become of justice at the Hypo-Alpe-Adria solution? What has become of the participation of creditors? – If the SPÖ policy is, I wonder.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3598	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3619	Madam President. Dear representatives on the government bank! High house! Dear taxpayers! Since the 1970s, in fact, since the Social Democrats have been in the government, debt making has been declared normal. For almost 60 years now more is spent than taken, although the economy has often been prosperous. The EIA, which has taken on the role of the first complicit, should remember that it has pursued a different policy until 1970. But maybe it's been too long since you could remember it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Or you make it conscious to buy voters' votes, knowing well that you can't afford much that is offered there at all. The OECD has now officially confirmed what every citizen can see with his or her free eye or, in other words, with a short look at his wallet. Austria has the third largest tax burden on income from all industrialized countries worldwide. We are an absolute high tax country and we are in front of a record debt mountain. In other words: The greedy state, which cannot control its expenditure, eats away everything. There is nothing left of any real wage increases. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Ask a worker what he has left of the inflation adjustment net then in the pocket of money! – Most likely nothing, for even this is not granted to him by the cold progression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We need work again from which we can live. Work needs to be rewarded again. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] But this is only possible if the eaty state also drops its expenditure. We should include a law in the Constitution, according to which the state should not, for example, remove more than one third of the people's income. Then he'll have to save. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] By the way, saving also goes without the quality of the performance or the product suffering. This can be confirmed by any entrepreneur. So I can tell you, in my time at Magna, twelve years in Canada, that was tough competition. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We had to be competitive. And customers have written in the contracts that the product has to be cheaper from 2 to 3 percent every year, of course with consistent quality. It even had to get better, otherwise we would have lost the job. Of course it is. Ask You're an entrepreneur! But many politicians come from the protected area. They may not have the understanding of that. So ask yourself! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Every entrepreneur can do that, yes, he has to do it, otherwise he loses his job. And this is due to an increase in efficiency and not to a deterioration in the product. So if, for example, the mission to the Ministry of Education is to save 0.75 percent of the total educational budget, then you must not save on the product and simply put the classes together, but you must save in the administration. It's an inflated administration unit. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] All of this costs too much, and that's why working people often don't stay enough in the wallet. You must have the right to be able to live from their income. It is precisely this that the administration needs to be reduced. And debt making must also have an end. But again this year the government is spending more money than it is taking. Under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party, there has never been a balanced budget. Social transfers. And I'm sure the Social Democrats mean well with the people, but the reality is that the young generation will have to pay for this debt orgy even more expensive. [[Abg. I'm not sure that's what I'm doing!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One day they will probably no longer live in a social welfare state, but in a social welfare state where the most powerful in the country are the bureaucrats. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In addition, this will bring us depending on the capital markets, our lenders. This debt-excess makes us dependent on exactly those speculators who are always attacking the social democrats. In this redistribution system, bureaucracy devours a considerable part of the money. But redistribution means power, and it obviously has to be preserved at any price. That is why this government will continue to tax and redistribut to make people in that country dependent. Perhaps you don't want an independent and powerful citizen at all. But I think this system will not work in the long run. We have to think again about the social market economy, with which we have been doing well for decades, especially in Austria and Germany. The icon of the German economic miracle, Ludwig Erhard, has formulated this so beautifully: Price stability and savings, prosperity through competition, achieve a redistribution, a self-careing citizen instead of a social subject. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Productivity is the key to building up social capital. And we have to save more than we spend. It's quite logical, I don't know anyone who's gotten rich by spending money. You can't consume yourself richly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Even in the first hour of the economy one learns, saving is equal to investment. We need investment in our society like a bite of bread. In the social-democratic half of the empire, Austria is said to be so well-financed on the capital market because we had such a great credit. But that's not true. Interests are therefore so low because the ECB prints money as crazy, precisely because the economy is so bad. There is working with so much ideological polemics, while the basic principle is so simple. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That's why I allow myself to quote Frank Stronach at this point: If the economy doesn't work, then nothing works. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The economy is the engine of our prosperity. And only when the economy is fine if entrepreneurs and their diligent employees make good money to distribute so that they can help the weak in society. The prerequisite for the economy to work is that the bureaucracy is reduced to a reasonable level. While the large corporations and entrepreneurs can simply migrate, and it is really thought publicly loud about it, the small businesses are naturally not able to do so. Where is the hairdresser, the host host or a small business to go? He doesn't have this possibility. And precisely these are the innumerable loads to the neck: the labour inspectorate, the social security insurance with its high, partly incalculable amounts, a possible loss of work in the event of illness and not to forget the tax checks. Mr Apropos, Minister for Finance: They announce the introduction of 550 new taxpayers. In the sense of red tape reduction, you prefer to delete 550 tax laws with grey zones, privileges, where no person knows each other, instead of hurling 550 new taxpayers on the neck! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] People feel harassed by the bureaucracy. And I'm sure that's not your goal. Please, do something about it! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] For years, the policy has been talking about red tape for years! And what happens? - Nothing! Nothing happens! There is no movement in reform. Interestingly, though, what is immediately feasible is new taxes, always under the motto of “social justice. ” Social justice has become a code word for tax increases. We stand for performance justice. Work must pay off again – and between work and non-work must also be a difference! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Therefore, for the time being, I plead for it: Get down with the administrative costs, less administrators, fewer laws, more money into the pockets of working people, down with taxes! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] Dear Lord and dear Mrs tax payer on the gallery and in front of the television screens! Has anyone at the Ministry of Finance ever told you thank you for the many taxes you supply? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear Sir and dear Mrs Entrepreneur, has anyone ever said thank you to the Financial Office? – Probably not, probably the opposite was the case. After a good financial year, you probably still had to justify yourself as if you had taken the money away from someone else. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In such an environment, it is becoming increasingly difficult to create prosperity. We need more appreciation for those who create prosperity, for the large entrepreneurs who invest in Austria, for the many SMEs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially for family businesses, because they are particularly difficult, and for all the working people in our country. The money we can spend on social matters comes from exactly those people who take the risks that work and who are not discouraged. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] These people count on society as a whole. I thank you very much. And: Keep going, one day this government will be elected!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3799	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3820	Good morning, Madam President. Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens in front of the TV screen, on the laptop, here on the ranks! Andreas Schieder, I would first like to address your statements on toothpaste, because I simply do not feel it fair, as we are being cut off on this subject. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: My God!]] They have not yet been willing to listen to our arguments. Perhaps you're ready to hear our arguments today. I can tell you, I've had my own teeth. I know that means stigmatization. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] And if you laugh today, you don't understand. Okay? Of course, that's a subject. And if the Minister of Health says: You should not be able to read the income of your parents at the face and at the bite of people!, then I am very much for it. I had my own shale teeth, and my parents didn't take the money into their hands so that they could just be put in. [[Abg. Wöginger: Why did you vote against it?]] – Listen to me now, or what's going on? Can I tell you? - Then you have to listen to me. The quality of listening would be one you can practice. At the age of 30, I finally invested myself in a toothband. That means I'm very much for that. And I can also remember that as a youth at the time – I will not forget my life – I read a guest comment by Elfriede Jelinek, in which she took Jörg Haider – which you can or can't do – off at the time because he had shredded teeth. And I thought, What kind of “shike ” approach to other people is that? And that's from a person I've loved a lot from and for myself. And I swear, if I have money, I'll just have my teeth set. I did it at the age of 30 when I had money. I wish every child in Austria who has shaky teeth that you do. But as long as we finance dental clamps on pump, i.e. with the inclusion of new debts, I tell you quite clearly: With the children of Mr Faymann, with the children of Mr Spindelegger, with the children of Mr Strolz or Mrs Strolz, and with all those who deserve a similar amount of money, this does not have to pay to the state. The parents are supposed to pay for these gears. Okay? [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Where the parents don't have the money, it's supposed to take over the state. For this we have advertised, for a socially sophisticated model, and you have refused to do so. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Foundry can have been in debt for 52 years, for 42 years. We just don't want that anymore! Mr. Schieder! Ladies and gentlemen! We NEOS have a vision that in this country the talents flourish and that in this country the courage grows. That's what we want. We have the vision that it is a country in which the founders and entrepreneurs are heartily working because they feel, yes, they are invited to take on responsibility, and they are invited to really do the freedom and responsibility in their hearts. I have the vision of a country where the young people say: Yes, there are great opportunities here; I want to live in this country in the future! I have the vision of a country where we say: We have the claim that in kindergarten, in school, in apprenticeships, at universities, we create the best framework on this planet to promote the raw material that is the most important for us: the talents of this country. We need to promote these raw materials. We have this vision. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] And I also have the vision of a country where we only know the once highest mountain in this country, namely the debt mountain, more from the history books, because we suddenly managed after more than half a century that this mountain no longer grows, but becomes smaller. Now some may say, that's a utopia! – But there are countries that have done this. And I think it's important to have such visions, because visions are guidelines. They lead our actions and actions. I think that's quite, very important. And it is equally important to be anchored in the here and now. And this here and now is lucky for us. Yes, we live in one of the richest countries in the world. And yes, we have a great social well-being. And I am happy every day to be a politician in such a country. The clear view of the present, however, also shows that we lose some 10,000 highly qualified people a year, especially young people abroad, because they say: I don't see the opportunities for my life in this country! A clear look at the present also shows that we are confirming the position in the field of education in the poor middle field. We're bad averages. A clear view of the present shows that we fall back in location comparisons, that is, we fall back in innovation rankings. That is, it increases unemployment. That is to say, it increases the tax and tax burden on people. The cold progression alone is a tax package that we convert to people in the amount of €2.5 billion per year. This is the clear view of the present. And then when I look at my three children, I have to say that it is clear to the children that this prosperity and well-being will not go out like that. Yeah, we're not going to be a developing country in 20 years, just: Austria will be only medium-sized. And this is going to be a severe incision into the lives of all the families of this country. It's a creeping process. But the people will lack the money for this prosperity and for this well-being. That is why the question is so relevant: How did other countries do it? Of course you should learn from them, too. We cannot copy everything, but we can see that, for example, Sweden has almost halved debt since 1998, while Austria has more than doubled debt in the same period. More than doubled! And that's where we have to say: Yeah, we can learn something. There's nothing bad about that. There's no bag from the crown. And why did it go to Sweden? – In Sweden, it was only because in Sweden, out of the feeling that it is not going well that this will not be enough for the children, it had a national consensus. [[Abg. Krainer: This is unscrupulous!]] And I want to advertise this national consensus here in this House. We need a national consensus. I would like to take out two more areas. We need this national consensus on pension issues. We all know that this pension system is not generation-friendly, not single-fit. The “standard” has written this very well today. Of course, the package of pensions, which we spend every year in the budget, is much more massive than the Hypo Alpe-Adria. We must have the courage to deal with this. And we NEOS have therefore submitted to the main committee a request to make a committee of inquiry on the subject of pensions so that we can deal with it in principle. Yes, we have ideas! Perhaps someone disagrees, but then, with the involvement of experts, with the involvement of representatives from those countries who have managed to make a course correction and get into a single-fit classification! [[Abg. Aubauer: The seniors are not...?]] [[Abg. Krainer: But single-fit is not automatically granny-fit!]] Let us choose a basic approach in order not to miss out on an attempt to reach a national consensus. We've got a couple of years. We don't have to break it over our knees, but we have to deal with it. The second area where we also need national consensus is federalism. If I talk to you in private, everyone in here will admit: This is not going well, just as we have organized federalism. It's too expensive. This is not sustainable and therefore not fair for the next generation. We need, and we all know this, as we are sitting here, a good starting point for the next financial compensation. The next financial compensation is a huge opportunity for this country, but only if we prepare well. He will intensify the difficulties in the budget if we do not prepare if we take this great opportunity to change here with feet. That is why, I believe, we need a fundamental, an honest, and I also need a process that is open to results. Of course, we can rely on good results from the Austrian Convention, but we have to sit down there, otherwise the financial compensation will come back overnight and we have to extend what we have now, and that is just too little to secure and promote prosperity and well-being in this country. The confidence that we are approaching these visions a small step day after day leads our actions. That's why we're here. And this confidence will also give us the energy to continue day after day. You all do, I think. You didn't choose the politician's profession because he's so funny. It's not funny every day, not even every fifth day. I think there's something burning in each of us. We may have different ideas, but I believe that in the fields of pensions and federalism, at least the realization that we should not continue as before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3950	Mr Faymann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e3971	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the last speech in a moment. It is true that the negotiations with the countries on financial compensation are an opportunity to arrange this relationship and also to address a great deal of double liquefaction in the various areas. We tried this at school. You know how it went out. I heard today, we're stopping the expansion of all day school. - Wrong! The expansion of the whole day school will be increased, expenditure will be increased, and the non-used appropriations of the previous year will be added in 2017/18. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz:... significantly reduced, right?]] So it looks like you really want to talk about the relationship between federal government and countries. Everyone is waiting for the appropriate title to reinterpret anything and then to destroy the discussion with a false statement – except the expert Kickl; he is a world-famous expert on all questions, starting with the topic of finance. [[Abg. Kickl: Just you!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Just you! Just you!]] [[Abg. Brosz: You can do no more at fifty... than before!]] The discussion we have held in recent weeks on how we can achieve the structural zero deficit in 2016 has led us to some measures. This does not mean, however, that we cannot set priorities in this budget as well. The Minister of Finance has clearly and clearly explained yesterday in his speech the additional investment for employment. Our low unemployment in European comparison is an example of successful action, as is the training guarantee and the fact that young people find a training place. This question, which may become a bit boring, is very important for the young people concerned, because they are not on the streets at the age of 16, but find training places. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To promote employment: Mr Strolz, you have spoken of “one-fit”. But grandsons also worry about whether their parents and grandparents with 50, 55, or 60 years of age will find another job. This is also a concern of a society: to ensure that someone is not simply sent to retirement at 70 and until then does not know how to find a job where he gets a job. Grandmotherfit must also be this society! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] The development of childcare facilities, in particular school, as well as care, care facilities and dental health, are also important. On dental health, because it was addressed by you, Mr Strolz: Of course, the issue of tax systems is the question of which approach you choose. One can also choose a mixture, but there are in principle two basic approaches: Either they say that they want to keep taxes as low as possible and then, if so, only those who need it urgently to do something as support or help. That means, thought through, for example, the abolition of the free school book, because I could also afford my daughter's schoolbooks. You could also pay for your children the double or triple prices for theatre or opera, for subsidized cultural institutions. Everyone could, with their income and pay taxes, decide from the theatre to the school to all the other institutions all day around with their own ID card, so that it can be determined how much they pay each time. - That's one way. This would, of course, be possible in the dental clamp. I think it would be an extreme bureaucratic effort to subordinate the individual benefits of the State to an income check in a single case. I think more of a fair system of solidarity, which also requires more taxes for those who have more. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I am in favour of a fair control system, which then includes the fact that each child should have a tooth clamp. But this is a political discussion, a debate of ideas. This has nothing to do with polemics and sinkings, as happens so often in the political discussion with other speakers. From the principle, it is also true that we are quite comparable with Germany in the area of debt ratio – and it is about the ratio of debt to GDP. Germany is the country with the strongest economy in Europe, one of the strongest economic forces in the world, and it has the same debt ratio as we do. [[Deputies Doppler and Dietrich:Reunification!]] That's not an excuse, that's a fact. We want to reduce our debt ratio, and we also have our plans, but it is not necessary to make the country sick, where we have the same debt ratio as Germany. This shows that it is also a matter of economic strength, of competitiveness, and that is where Austria can be seen. Austria also has to work to ensure that this competitiveness is not lost, on the contrary, that it will continue to be strengthened in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But fairness must also be strengthened. If we already address the German comparison: The wealth taxes in Germany are higher than those in Austria. The share of wealth taxes is higher than that in Austria. On the other hand, the proportion of employees is higher in Austria than in Germany. So while we are reducing the tax burden on property, we are levying more taxes and taxes on workers. That can't make us happy. That is why a tax reform is essential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Willi.]] I say that if you are discussing in Germany now whether you are also making a tax reform in order to achieve the same balanced relationship between workers, it is necessary that we do so first. If Schäuble has entered this discussion, with all foresights and reservations and contradictions in the public debate in Germany, then Schäuble, as I think, has acted very correctly, that he has taken up this discussion, but we Austrians must be in front of the Germans because our burdens are higher. That is why I am in favour of a tax reform and a millionaire tax with counter-financing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Should you ask me: Why don't you always do everything you want?, then I can tell you, we've implemented a lot in this budget, which I'm proud of. [[Abg. Brosz: From what you just said...!]] I am glad that the government has adopted a common position and a common procedure. This also includes the questions I have already raised about employment. Chapter for Chapters I could now tell you in which areas concrete investments have been made to create the necessary framework conditions in our society by the Federal Government even in difficult times, where we have not yet come out of the crisis. However, I would also like to address a subject that has played a role in the debate: In view of the costs that banks have caused us, how can we achieve a financing that banks and financial institutions themselves can contribute more to our society? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Exactly! Banks in the closets!]] Here I defend the bank levy, which brings about €3 billion per legislative period. A legislative period is over, but also in the current and also in the next legislative period, I would like to maintain this bank levy so that we can tell the Austrians – under the rule – that about €9 billion have arrived in three legislative periods in banking, as an important part of the financing. That is also a question of fairness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that there are also institutions here that have not cost the state itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It is an advantage for the banking system and for the country's stable finances as a whole, if not simply a bank or even a federal country goes into bankruptcy, especially in terms of reputation, such as in the areas of Western Balkans and South-East Europe which are so important for us. The reputation has not only political advantages for our country. It is a question of correctness that Angela Merkel once said about Germany: Our credit quality is not for the debate you have to rely on. All these stabilisation measures in relation to the banking and financial sectors have also benefited the Austrian banks, and therefore it is a question of fairness that they are now also involved in paying for these costs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to tell you that our shared concern in the area of financial transaction tax has today to be successful. The European Court of Justice has rejected a UK case, which is once again a step closer to an area where I am convinced that it will be enforced during this legislative period. The fact that we, as Austrians, are still more and faster and better imagining ourselves is an engine within the European Union. At least today, this financial transaction tax was successful again in its enforcement against those who are considering all day long how to prevent such a thing as the financial transaction tax at European level, successfully against those who want to question what must be fundamental consensus in our country: to say, everyone must make his contribution, not just workers. That is why I am pleased that the ECJ has decided this way today. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] The future researcher Matthias Horx wrote in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” a few days ago about the criticism of Austria. Here I do not mean the constructive criticism that continues us because only constructive criticism and never self-satisfaction is a motto of a country for development. Only reforms, the questioning of things not only should be taken into account, because they are simple, but rather should clarify whether they fulfil the purpose, that is constructive criticism, and there is nothing to say to them. For constructive criticism, everything is to be said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I mean those sinkings that often happen. Matthias Horx, currently living in Austria, wrote a lot about this. I quote: “As a country of living foreigners, they are more likely to rub their eyes there.” – If you often see the deplorable criticism on the other hand. – ‘One experiences: flowering cities with rich culture, a capital that is chosen in one or two of the international quality of life each year; Place five or six holds the country on the international scale of world prosperity, green landscapes, () small agile companies, () quite relaxed civil society to which others can only envy one.” Perhaps much of what we do together is right, and we must invest in our strengths and put the courage there to change where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4196	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4217	Thank you, Madam President. – I listened exactly to the first round. With Mr Strache, I am not quite sure whether it makes sense to address his comments at all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Don't talk about cheese!]] In his allegation that every budget speech has been heard immediately since 2006, the viewer's eye may come to mind: Its response to each budget is the same, regardless of what was actually said in the budget speech. First: You say every budget speech has been the same since 2006. To do this, you have to say: In 2006 there was no budget speech here in the house! In 2007 and 2008, they heard quite differently. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Since 2006!]] This was not so much about re-indebtedness, because it was then less than 1 percent in both years, but it was about getting the debt ratio below 60 percent, which was also achieved in 2008. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was a “very small” economic crisis. You may not have noticed this because your salary has not changed. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Yours a ned!]] But believe me, not only in Austria, but around the world they have felt it. This, of course, also had a major impact on budget discussions. They claim here that the tax rate has increased, increased, increased, increased. To this end, fairness must be said: ==References====External links== Three years in a row, the tax and tax rate has fallen in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The claim that she is now at the highest level is also wrong. It was the highest when a blue finance minister was sitting here. Indeed, the tax and tax rate was 1 percent higher than it is today – only as much as fairness and what is really high. They tell us the same thing every year. Every year we have the highest taxes and charges of history. It is only wrong every time, because the highest taxes and taxes we had, as I said, when a blue finance minister was sitting here. We had the highest tax and tax rate in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blow: (a copy of the budget estimate to the height) stupid! 43 percent were, now there are 45.3 percent taxes...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The tax rate is today the highest of the 2nd. Republic!]] It's also wrong if you tell us here that we have a half-percent economic growth this year. You got a little confused. Economic growth in Austria is half a percent higher than the average of all other countries in the euro area. Not our growth is half a percent, but we are half a percent better than the others. We are – only for your information – at 1.7 percent and not 0.5 based on the forecasts. [[Abg. Strache: But you didn't listen to your clubman!]] You say we need a discharge from taxpayers. That's where I ask myself the question... – Yes, that's what he said, I listened. [[Abg. Strache: But you didn't listen to your clubman!]] – If you say it takes a discharge, I ask you: When we decided a tax reform of €3 billion, why did you vote against it? They voted against the 2008/2009 tax reform, where the discharge amounted to €3 billion. Let us remember what the tax reform, since the SPÖ is in the government, has meant: between €360 and €480 discharge per year per taxpayer. And what was when the Blues put the Minister of Finance? – 7 € discharge! This is the difference when red reigns or when blue is in the government. But we see at the hypo what the difference between red and blue is! [[Abg. Strache: How is it with...?]] Her speech was so absurd that almost nothing was right at all. Police were dismantled when you were in the government, and have become more than the SPÖ has come to the government. But you didn't even place Texas right, you meant that would be in South America! It's just the south of the USA, that's North America. Don't worry. There wasn't anything that could be grasped about your speech. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: So Brazil is not in South America? Brazil is with you in North America?]] Maybe you should talk to your speaker – he's sitting next to you – about giving him a little feedback. [[on abg. Kickl Running]] [[Abg. That's funny! Brazil is with you in North America!]] To the Greens I wanted to say: I take it totally from you that education policy is important to you and that it is important to you that something goes further here. But let's remember what happened here a year ago. A year ago we had a debate on the BFRG, which was then decided in June last year. At that time you welcomed: (a) the framework for the educational budget and (b) the expansion of the entire day's schooling. At that time, €80 million a year was planned for the expansion of all-day schools. What we are discussing today is an expansion of 110 million this year – that is, by 30 million more – and by 160 million in the coming years – more than a year ago. And today you're talking about standstill or cancellation or shorts? [[Abg. Brosz: Will the expansion plans be shortened or not?]] – What you welcomed a year ago was less than what we are discussing today, namely increasing expansion. These are the numbers you can look at! That's why I don't understand. They also welcomed the educational budget last year. What we decide today is for this year € 125 million more than a year ago and for next year € 60 million more than we decided a year ago. What you welcomed last year and what is now being increased can not only be bad! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Let's discuss the educational budget, please!]] If you say something good last year, what's going to be a little better now, why you're talking about shorts and savings, I don't understand. [[Abg. Strache: What does the chancellor's advisor know? - Is that your chancellor advisor? What's his performance?]] To the NEOS I wanted to say: I'll take it from you that you mean it well in most of the questions. But to compare and say that Sweden has halved its debt, and to claim that on the basis of the percentage of the debt ratio, and to say to Austria, they have doubled, and to take nominal figures here, that is – you have to be clear – not rational. And if you're talking about ankle fit, it's okay, but a pension system should also be parental fit and omafit and opafit. If we agree, I have no problem at all. I just think that the system is, in any case, unique for the next few years. You know, the pension system has been reformed about 50 times over the last 70 years, because it is necessary to permanently adjust it to reflect the economy, employment and so on, and I believe that we must continue along this path and do it. I say again: Save where efficiency is concerned, invest in future areas, especially in education, expanding day-to-day education, research and development. It is very important that what has happened in the budgets in recent years and what is going on in this year and next year. And it is also important to ensure that revenue in this country becomes fairer, i.e. to reduce taxes and taxes on work and to increase it to capital and assets. That's the right way we like to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4468	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4489	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can support Mr Krainer seamlessly and I would like to add a few other aspects. I have been here for a few years now and have the impression that the opposition is always the same arguments, which then appear to be completely untrue or quite simply so that the opposition never wants to bear responsibility. It's always easy to say, it's all bad or it's all too little. For example, Mrs Nachbaur, who always presents himself here at the speaker's desk very friendly and very nice, I would like to say that such expressions as "the greedy state" or "the eaty state" are simply a joke to those people who benefit from a social state such as Austria. [[Abg. Kogler: The ÖVP has often claimed that too!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That could almost have been said by the Spindelegger!]] If you compare with Canada here, I would like to know if there is a 30 percent social rate in Canada for people who need help. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To you too, colleague Strolz: I mean, a lot of what you say is to be welcomed, including with regard to federalism reform. How difficult it is with the countries, everyone who meets with the countries in negotiations on the various areas knows. But quite honestly, it is also cynical to make a comparison between the sum that the pensions cost us over the legislative period, and what the hypo costs us. The hypo is a blue disaster in Carinthia, a Landesbank, for which – and you can still discuss it so often – if it had gone into bankruptcy, the country of Carinthia would still have had to stand straight with the liabilities, and there would have been Carinthia in bankruptcy. [[Abg. Stop it!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Research Committee!]] What would have happened then? – The state officials would not have received any more salaries. Do you want that? - I don't think so. The Republic does not want this, and that is why the taxpayer is in favour of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is really cynical, Mr Strolz, because the pensioners have done it. And if you are always saying that you have so many concepts for a pension reform, and we should sit down and do the lonesome thing, then I am full of your opinion that we should, but we can still do so many good pension reforms – which, by the way, come into force now, 2014 – as far as the I-pension is concerned as regards the hacker-pension as regards the corridor-pension, it is enough for reforms on the way – it does not help us if the people have no employment. For this reason, we are now taking in €370 million to stimulate the labour market for older workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Quite honestly, I also have positive aspects of the opposition. It's not all bad, it's not all good, but please come out and take up positive arguments or positive aspects! I would like to, because then I could recognize a sense of responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it is always said that there are such debt mountains and that is an insanity, then I would like to remind you that we have a primary balance this year because of the hypo-deaster, which is weakly negative, but that we will have a positive primary balance in the next few years with more than one percent. I believe that we can also see that we are willing not to make new debts, but of course we also need to save and continue to pursue the savings course that was launched in 2011. But I don't see any willingness from the opposition either, I have to say that quite honestly. Whenever it comes to saving, it says: No, you can't! This is not the case, and that is not the case! – You have to consider taking part in reforms too! In the committees one hears only again and again: Administrative reforms, administrative jurisdiction, the entire asylum court history, care. I can't remember that the opposition would contribute to all these reforms. At the end of the tax. In 2009 we made a tax reform with a volume of over 3 billion. The opposition has always said that this is too little and we do not agree. We will prepare a tax reform and let it enter into force if we can afford it. I would also like to appeal to our coalition partner and also to the Federal Chancellor: A millionaire tax is not a counter-financing for a tax reform, which is to make up several billions that are really designed to relieve the burden that is to simplify, to bring transparency and fair performance. This is an eye-catching, and you have to say that to the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[10:28]] [[10:28:21]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4592	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm advocating deputies Podgorschek, Mag. Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues and colleagues have requested according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure Investigation Committee to examine political responsibility in connection with the operations relating to the use of the Hypo Group Alpe Adria. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. The next item is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4630	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Values Advisors! Mr Krainer, you already know that VOEST's main investments are in Brazil? Brazil is not Texas, and Brazil is located in South America. – Only so much to your geography. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes, but Mr. Krainer cannot know that! He has no idea that the main investments are in Brazil!]] But, Mr Krainer, you always claim that we are the best in Europe. I should like to point out to you: Switzerland also belongs to Europe, which is much better than we are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the colleague Tamandl. – Mrs. Tamandl, we see everything positive that you always promise. Everything you always promise for the next legislative period in all elections is extremely positive. You are talking about the tax being reduced that more net of gross remains, that you want to support companies, that you want to prevent the migration desires of large companies that you want to unleash the economy. All these things you promise – but you do not keep these promises! If you are now talking about a trend change for Austria in this budget, that is far from being achieved. I remind you: You are now the fourth ÖVP Finance Minister, since there is a red and black government, so since early 2007, and your predecessors Molterer, Pröll and Fekter all claimed the same thing: Reduce the tax rate below 40 percent, more net of gross! – But exactly the opposite happened! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And again and again, an excuse has come to your aid: It was the financial crisis first, then it was the economic crisis, now it is the hypo. [[Abg. Street: Soon it will be Ukraine!]] It is interesting to note that the problems of ÖVAG, for example, and the banking problems that are waiting for us in Ukraine, and the local credit, in any case, are no longer talking about. I'm excited what the next excuse will be for not implementing your projects. [[Abg. Street: Moscow!]] In any case, this is not a trend change, but it is a continuation of your policy, which has not continued in the last few years in Austria and which has led to the impoverishment of the population. Because of this government's poverty report, you know how many Austrians have now been threatened with poverty – and then you say that we are all going to be dazzling?- Oh, my God! They also repeatedly claim that pension adjustments and salary increases, which are negotiated annually, are just below the inflation line. With inflation, too, you cheat. They know that the inflation rate in weekly purchasing is between 3 and 4 percent. However, this is net, while your salary increases and the pension increase of 1.6 percent are gross. You'll find that there's no percent left under the line. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other words, the purchasing power drops from year to year, leading to less production, which in turn leads to fewer employees finding a job and the number of unemployed. – And that is the “success” concept of this government?- Oh, my God! To congratulations! Mr Spindelegger! You know, you said an interesting sentence yesterday. You said yesterday, you promised all Austrians that you would be very careful about their tax euro. I'll tell you one thing: You promised. You have pointed out to each Austrian and to each Austrian that you will be careful not to have any more available euro in your pocket if this government has to find after one or two years that it is entirely on its way to wood. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Economic Programme: Minister Mitterlehner! There are very good approaches if you are talking about a reduction in additional labour costs. Then we'll talk to Tacheles: That's 0.2 percent. - What are you doing? The craftsman bonus, on and on, a good idea: They want to fight the blackwork. With €30 million, divided into two years, you want to fight the black work, which according to expert opinions and estimates last year amounted to €21 billion?- Oh, my God! Then you want to implement goals and here you also specify which impact goals you want to pursue with your new budget. Now you have only a mini budget of €400 million, and you still cut that by 13 percent! [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Strolz wants to cut it short!]] You cut the economic budget by 13 percent and want to boost the economy?- Oh, my God! - Who's going to take this from you? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister for Economic Affairs! It is not a talk of red tape, no speech about the return of the imposed flood, of a relief in the case of transfers of operations – you know that this is a problem of the next few years – of a shattering of the trade order. And that's the budget of this federal government. – No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4755	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4776	Madam President. Appreciate members on the government bank! High house! One thing I would like to comment positively, namely on the 2015 to 2018 financial framework. In recent months, we have discussed the budget lie in connection with the hypo. We've been discussing the budget hole for a long time. And when you compare the financial framework old and new, you will see that the budget hole has disappeared here because various approaches have been strongly corrected. This relates to tax estimates, to pension approaches, to banks, to the assessment of savings packages and more. Mrs. Finanzminister, out of service – now she is not in the hall, Mrs. Fekter – has deliberately set up the federal financial framework of the previous year to operate moods. She has abused him for various purposes, up to the elections. This federal financial framework has led to a reorganisation of this horse-trailer. That's positive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Rossmann, the Rosslugger!]] Mr Finanzminister! Now to you and your budget speech. You said yesterday we had a mountain too much, the debt mountain. – You have been in government responsibility with your party since 1986, and do you know how high the debt was then? – The debt ratio was 52.5 percent at the time, and today, 2014, it is over 79 percent. [[Abg. Strache: This is the ÖVP-Schuldenberg!]] The latest responsibility for the increase is borne by the ÖVP! And you always like to be an economic party. It has long become a myth! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] The disaster for the hypo has begun in Carinthia, which is already true, but the slowing down and the fact that no other solutions, insolvency solutions have been used, have caused this debt mountain to grow so much that we now have to use so much money for the mortgage that is missing for future investments. [[Abg. That's right!]] For the hypo alone, it's 5,5 billion € up to now. Mr Finanzminister! You also spoke yesterday about a trend change in your budget speech, and we have heard this many times today by SPÖ Members. I can't see anything from a trend turnaround anywhere. I cannot see it in terms of the budget target, because with this budget programme you are presenting here, you will not achieve the 2016 budget target. It's not business-friendly. There are no economic impulses, from housing offensives to tax reductions. But they do not do anything for the future of the country, i.e. for future growth opportunities and for the youth of the country. This can be read in the budgets for education, for science, for research, but also for the budget for the environment. Let's take the education budget. If in recent days it has been said again and again that so much has been done for the school and that these cuts would anyway be only a drop on the hot stone, I have to resist this if I look at the figures – the overview 15, for those who want to read it in the budget report – that it actually looks like it is so much that from year to year there is less money available for the schools. However, the salary increases for teachers for this year and next year are already fixed. If these are to be paid out and if the staff level is the same as it is employed, then the school budget will not be enough. This is a dramatic budget! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the SPÖ, please take note of this! But trend change cannot be seen by looking at the need for structural reforms. What about the federalism reform, what about the financial compensation reform – it will all be postponed – and what about the tax structural reform? - Nothing to recognize. What about the tax justice that Mr Schieder, by Mr Jan Krainer, had done by Mr Bundeskanzler? - I can't see anything. [[Abg. Street: 2050! 2050!]] It's pure rhetoric! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Group taxation,!]] Please, Mr Schieder and Mr Bundeskanzler, ensure that a tax reform is made in this country! [[Abg. Arbitrators: group taxation, manager salaries,! – You just have to read!]] At last, create these spaces! And the room for play is possible: on capital charges, Mr. Schieder! You just have to do it, and you have to stand up against your coalition partner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The President of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Tamandel, said here that the millionaire tax is an eye-catching. – Millionaire taxes and taxes on assets have something to do with equal opportunities, have something to do with performance justice, and with these taxes we can finance tax reductions without burdening the budget – which are necessary because there is the cold progression. [[Abg. Haubner: It is exactly the opposite!]] In 2009, there was the last tax reduction, but since then the cold progression has drawn €2.5 billion from the pockets of the Austrians. How was the development of net real wages in recent years, since 2010, following this tax reform? – She was negative every year! And if you make yourself here and constantly announce anything, then – sorry! – I can no longer take you seriously, but the Austrians will no longer take what you announce seriously. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] I would like to conclude with a finding of Joachim Riedl – you can't put it any better on the point than he formulated it a few days ago in the “time” –: “This government has no plan for its work, its programme is a cemetery of hollow phrases”. – I fully agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4923	Mr Vetter. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e4945	Greetings, Madam President! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! About seven years ago, there was a constitutional change that provided for the extension of the legislative period from four to five years. The purpose of this extension was to bring about simple reforms in this country if the legislative period lasts for five years. We are at the beginning of a five-year legislative period for the second time, and there is nothing to be seen about the major reforms. In reality, this budget is the writing of a standstill – a standstill where only small things are shown that one could do one or another. A trend change, however, is in reality not to be ignored. We have the biggest deficit there has ever been in history. In Austria we have a net financing requirement of €3.5 billion, and we have an interest rate service of more than double. Ladies and gentlemen, if we did not have this interest service, what you could finance! The debt-making company, the decades-long debt-making has actually greatly limited the scope of the government and also of the House as a budget-legislator. If we hadn't made any debts, we'd have a big margin. If we didn't make any more debts, the next generation would have a big margin. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Why you do this is totally obscene to me. You too, ladies and gentlemen, or the Federal Chancellor – and I am not suspicious that I am at home in the ideological vicinity of the Federal Chancellor – have repeatedly pointed out that much is paid to the financial markets you do not like at all, and that it is precisely because of that that one should be saved so that one can afford more in the future. When I look at the budget forecast, I see it's the same every year, the deficit gets higher, and the preview shows: Next year it will be less, next year it will be less, and next year it will be even less. – This reminds me of this book by Dostoyevski, “The Player” A man goes to the casino again and again and again, and says that it will get better already, it will get better. [[The speaker shall keep a pocketbook edition of the above-mentioned work up to date]] Know the last sentence of Dostoyevskis “The player”? – The last sentence is: “Tomorrow, everything will come to a good end!” [[Abg. Stache: Tomorrow, tomorrow, just not today, say all lazy people!]] In a similar way, this federal government, in its illusion, next year, will be all right next year. – Never did that happen! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] I looked at the chattering behavior of the two government parties yesterday and I could observe something interesting: If it was about saving, then the ÖVP has clap only; if it was about spending, then above all you have clap from the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] You really have an interesting division of work – in good Viennese: A weird couple found themselves here. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] If I quote the Bible in this regard, do not take it badly! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] The Bible says: “You should not put ox and donkey together in front of the plough.” – How this tension should go together is a great mystery to me, ladies and gentlemen! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Watch what you say!]] [[pointing towards SPÖ and ÖVP series]] [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That is where you need to inform our colleague Alm about the Bible!]] One of the favourite jobs in the presentation of the budget is the introduction of statistics, according to the motto: We're not so bad in class, we're class best, we're class-tritters and the like. [[Abg. Lopatka: But take the ox and donkey back! Animal comparisons!]] - Well, that's the Bible. I told you, don't hurt me! – I would rather trust my own statistics, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call at the ÖVP:It is enough already the spaghetti monster!]] What is the power of economic policy? Ladies and gentlemen, how many exchanges have there been in the last six years? How many nationalizations have there been in recent years? - Three! A particularly embarrassing statistics is the following: At present, we have most of the head of the group who are publicly philosophizing about emigration intentions. The Minister for Economic Affairs has said that one should not dramatize this, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is a current OGH judgment in respect of Libro, where the offence of unfaithfulness is seen very far. Consider the following: The Austrian companies are now faced with the indebtedness of manager salaries from €500 000, the removal of certain losses, with high energy costs, high CO2 costs, high labour costs. – Well, ladies and gentlemen, if the Group heads don’t think about how their company could be cheaper elsewhere – knowingly, damage! –, perhaps sometime a prosecutor of the Republic of Austria comes up and says: My dear Group heads, what you are doing here, are actually unfaithful: that you stay here when you spend so much money here to the damage of the company! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Come on! Absorbed!]] [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. Lopatka) Go back to the Bible!]] This is not so absurd, because they have a lot of opportunities to better manage for the company elsewhere. And, Mr. Lopatka, today is not difficult to find out: You look at the internet, you look at the big four homepages, and you know immediately where you have it easier where it is better for the company. I mentioned the Vienna Stock Exchange earlier. Do you know any activities of the Vienna Stock Exchange over the last six years? Should I tell you where people are going today? – People are looking at what the Singapore Stock Exchange is doing, what the Shanghai Stock Exchange is doing, what the Hong Kong Stock Exchange is doing and what we are doing here to improve the climate for business. That's what I'm wondering: What are we doing here? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the standstill is overcome, that on the one hand, the climate for business in Austria is improved, and that, on the other hand, there is naturally a tax reform, that income and wage tax rates are significantly reduced, in the entrance area up to the peak rate. What we have here today is an incentive to the tax avoidance that you go to domestic and foreign gesmbhs and that you go into black work. The question is not: Can we afford the tax reform? The point is unique and alone: We have to afford them! You must afford the tax reform in both government parties, the faster, the better! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] As far as tax revenue is concerned, because you are not doing this tax reform because you have already exceeded the tax optimism, I would like to have it calculated. I'll figure it out and tell you in one of the next speeches. [[Abg. Lopatka: We look forward to it!]] [[Abg. Strache: I think Mr. Lopatka needs another Bible quote!]] In summary, ladies and gentlemen: Improve the climate for business! Make a tax reform! I'm going to observe this very closely. Overcoming the standstill! At least I'll push you further, and I'll tell you one thing: If you are not willing, I need patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5204	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5225	Madam President. Estimated members of the government! High house! Citizens in the gallery – today very many – and also in front of the screens! We heard on Monday when we got the budget that the trend change was there. We have actually tried to find this trend change since Monday evening, since this budget is on the table. We've been through the budget, the sub-books hacked through, unfortunately we haven't found them. This trend turnaround is not visible, it is not verifiable. What we found, however, is record debt. We have a record deficit, despite record revenue; you should not forget that either. We have actually succeeded in overcoming the high tax country of Sweden. Sweden has always been the highest tax country in Europe. We have managed for the first time, with a tax rate of over 45 percent, to overtake Sweden, and we do not do with this money anyway. What we have also discovered: They do not allow commercial care to be exercised. What every entrepreneur in this country needs to do, what every citizen and every citizen has to do in his own household, namely to be careful about their own finances, you haven't done that. [[Abg. What is the level of unemployment in Sweden?]] In recent years we have had an average growth of 0.6 percent. We've seen what you're assuming. They assume that growth is now rising to 1.7 percent. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Swedish unemployment!]] One can always follow the principle of hope, but that is not a principle of commercial care. They have also taken no precautions for crises, although there is a convoy in Ukraine. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] The interest rates for our public debt are only manageable because the interest rate level is at a historically low level. It's not going to happen if we had to pay interest like we did a few years ago. Of course you didn't take any precautions either. So you can sum up: The Fiscal Pact, the structurally balanced budget deficit, will not create you with these measures. You will not create it before all in 2015 – that would actually be the requirement of the Fiscal Pact – and you risk having the European Commission impose sanctions. Why to Become You have this Fiscal Pact, why will you not create this structurally balanced budget deficit? - Because you didn't provide for the hypo! You have said, or in your budget report, that now €4 billion will be set. [[The speaker will raise an issue of the 2014 Federal Estimate.]] So you look, look in the subtables – financial market stability, that can be read by everyone – where these 4 billion are, and you can't find them! € 2.7 billion is set – € 2.7 billion! – but not for 2014, but until 2017, and not for the mortgage, but for all banks. That is, you have not provided for the hypo again, although you claim the opposite, and continue to follow the principle: tarry and deceive. [[Mr Haubner and Mr Auer: Read!]] [[Abg. Auer: Practice and read – and understand!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Read!]] If we are already on the subject of hypo: The hypo has often been – even yesterday – stressed as an explanation that we now have such a difficult budgetary situation. I say quite openly: Yes, the hypo is a scandal, the hypo is also a case of abuse. Hypo has been abused by large-scale national politicians, the hypo has been abused by criminal structures in south-eastern Europe. And apparently, the hypo is now being abused for a third time, namely as an excuse from the Federal Government, that the hypo is the only reason why it is so badly ordered about the budget. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not an excuse, that's the fact!]] That's just wrong, that's the untruth! [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] From this point of view, the refusal of insolvency is given a completely different meaning. This is where the mining company, as it is so well called, is located, if everything goes into the budget, everything is passed on to the taxpayer, because then – not we, but the Federal Government – we have a suitable excuse for the next 15 years: You can't do anything, the budget looks very gloomy, but that's the hypo! We not only criticize NEOS but also put constructive proposals on the table, and I would therefore like to briefly outline what would be a real trend change. First: Promotions and subsidies; not with us, but with many other experts to read. If we only reduce subsidies in this country to the European average, we can save €9 billion a year. This can also be quickly implemented, but no commissions are needed to do so. Second point: Federalism. Federalism is a positive thing, but just as it is set up in Austria, namely that federalism and countries play the ball each other and are always sought for who can handle what costs, that has nothing to do with federalism, that is organized responsibilitylessness. What we need is a federalism of responsibility! That would save us – and that is not what we say, but experts – over €4 billion. If only the countries that are the best among them – best-practice examples, benchmarking, which is the best orientation and the best thing to do – then we would save over €4 billion. Together – only these two points: Funding and federalism – this amounts to €13 billion. Do you know what you can finance with it? – This can be used to finance the abolition of cold progression, so today we will also bring in an initiative to abolish exactly this cold progression, which each year will pool €2 billion in addition to the funds of the Minister of Finance. [[the speaker shall keep the said application up to date.]] This is a hidden tax increase without Parliament's decision, which makes people feel in the purses; although wages rise, there is less and less. – We want to abolish that with this initiative proposal. 2 billion €! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] You can also finance the reduction of the input tax rate from 36 to 25 percent – € 4 billion – and with this € 13 billion you can also make the budget deficit disappear, create a truly balanced budget. All this is possible only through reforms in the field of funding and federalism – and I am not even talking about pensions, I am not even talking about health, I am not even talking about administrative reform! You just wonder why the Federal Government doesn't do that. I mean, she could do it, but she doesn't want to. This system of high taxes and high subsidies is intended to keep the population dependent, to keep power in the hands of the Federal Government, in the hands of politics. But you ignore the fact that you surrender the power itself, namely to the financial markets. I come to the conclusion: Reforms in this country will not take place until the majority in that country are in red and black. We can only expect it when red black falls below 50 percent. And we NEOS are ready to take over! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5381	Mr. Dr. Spindelegger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5404	Madam President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I had the opportunity yesterday to explain the principles in my budget speech, which is why I would like to take a brief look at today. [[Abg. New builder: let go, this opportunity!]] However, I would like to help Mr Hable a little on the jumps, because this must not be allowed to stop. He said that he had looked through both budgets – 2014 and 2015 – and that he could not see the trend change. – Mr colleague, you have apparently not yet discovered another document, which is the overview of the Federal Financial Framework 2015 to 2018 – that is this document – and there you can see the trend change: that from 2016 – also 2017 and 2018 – we have not only stopped a structural deficit, but also put down figures. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This is the trend change, very much appreciated, Mr Deputies. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Oberhauser.]] We do not want to make new debts from then on, and we want to achieve this structural zero deficit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting to follow this debate. Someone spoke of a couple race, and today's race of club members of the opposition parties was also remarkable. No populism has been omitted, or have you missed the following statements in any speech? [[Abg. Kogler: Go!]] Name: Reduce taxes – yes, of course, and immediately. Don't make any more debts – at least at the moment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Eliminate the cold progression – we have to do that right away. And of course there is also a financial sugar for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to make budgetary policy like this, we could go to the opposition banks. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] You have been held in your opposition knitting pattern: Everything the government does is bad! But where is a single proposal from you? Was there an idea? Is there anything that's going on with us? – Unfortunately, no. And this is unfortunate in such debates here in the House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out now – Mr Strache has already left the hall quickly – that: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He's just meeting Mr. Lopatka!]] Member of the House has accused us of not putting in place the corresponding reforms in such a way that we can afford to do everything we can. Ladies and gentlemen, but as honourable Members have said, We do not want to make any more debts in the future, we want to reduce the tax burden on Austrians accordingly!, but at the same time, I should like to point out that a minimum pension is required for everyone – straight! – for every woman and for every man, up to €1,200 a month, it is not possible. This would be an additional charge of €3 billion per year. Show me your concept of how you want to finance it, ladies and gentlemen. It would be nice, but that is totally unrealistic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I could continue now, from one to the other, but I don't want to leave one in the room: If it is said that the hypo-bank would have been stateless in 2009, then it must be broken on the tongue. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh!]] If someone who has worked for years in a party whose boss was a Carinthian, that is, head of state Haider, says that one would have sent this bank into bankruptcy in 2009, then one must have it broken down on the tongue because it would immediately have become 20 billion €, namely, on liabilities of the country Carinthia – Carinthia in bankruptcy, and the Carinthian population would have been targeted by this: [[Abg. Karlsböck: Investigation Committee!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Kogler: This is a nonsense!]] Everything you have is immediately thrown under the hammer! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What does the Republic of Austria have to do with a Bavarian bank?]] That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen! If you want to speak seriously, you also have to face the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] In my view, this is a necessity if we are to make a really good debate in this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's incredible, at your own shame!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You've changed your mind three times too!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to explain to the honourable Member the following: 550 new taxpayers! Mrs Colleague, the pension rate for the next ten years is 40 percent in the financial management. [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of the Abg. Kogler) You have no idea!]] The 550 are not an additional quota, but a substitute for it, because it is also necessary to be honest with each other in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] I underline: Every taxpayer who pays a good tax is a welcome customer of the Austrian financial administration. But we have to knock on those who don't pay their taxes. And for that to happen, it also needs control in this country, namely from a well-designed financial administration. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karlsböck.]] Mr Rossmann, I would like to say one thing: You say that only the word will be announced and you can't take anything seriously in this regard. But where were your suggestions in your speech? [[Abg. Kogler: That's enough!]] What proposals for structural measures have come from you? – Nothing was there. I hope that you will, at least in the budgetary deliberations, make up for this in the committee meetings, because that was a weak idea, Mr Deputies. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rossmann and Mr Karlsböck.]] Let me come to my conclusion. I have announced a trend change, the end of debt making, the start of reforms and smart investment, and I remain here, ladies and gentlemen. We must set up reforms, yes, and every minister who has to make use of this budget will have to make reforms beyond the budget accompanying laws. There will be nothing else left. And I am convinced that the creativity in the individual Federal Ministries has already been fully used to achieve these goals, so that we have a total of another Austria in front of us – an Austria in which you can work in peace, but also has the certainty that, if you no longer work, you are also insured as a pensioner in that country. And that's important to me, too. Mr Strolz, the fear slogans in the direction that we will now fundamentally change our pension system are not correct. We all know what we need to do: Everyone has to work longer, then we will also be able to afford the pensions. That is what we have ensured with our reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5684	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5705	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hable brought the comparison with Sweden in advance. I would like to talk a little bit about the social and labour market budget today and I would like to add my remarks to the comparison with Sweden. Unemployment is currently twice as high in Sweden as in Austria. That is to say, there is a clear problem there, which is also reflected in the fact that the Swedish trade union president was in Austria in order to find out what programmes and measures Austria is doing in order to achieve such figures in the field of youth unemployment – every single unemployed person is too much – as we currently have them. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That is why we also want to adopt the education systems of the Scandinavian countries, so that we also have such an unemployment!]] That means we can already compare our figures with those of other countries, we do so too, but in principle we have to see ourselves taking into account our circumstances. And what we have achieved in these times of crisis as far as unemployment is concerned, I think, can be seen – that may sound superior from my position now – but nevertheless every unemployed person is one too much. A very current number: Today, Statistics Austria has published again the figures of the unemployed. We are stable with 4.9 percent compared to the previous year. These are clear and clear successes of our taking in a lot of money, which is often criticized to stimulate labour market and labour market policies so that Rudi Hundstorfer and the Federal Government have succeeded in stabilising the level of unemployment. This is a great success of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are trying to tackle these areas with real objectives. This means investments in the field of work, especially for the generation 50 plus. We know that, in order to achieve one of the objectives of this chapter, which is to guarantee stable pensions, secure pensions, it is necessary to keep employment. We must keep people's employment high and we must see that people can stay in employment for as long as possible. We can do this if we keep them healthy on the one hand – that is, it will invest more money in prevention and health in the labour market – and if we really put them into employment on the other. This works by, for example, trying to reimburse the company additional labour costs if they employ people who are 50 plus. We will also ensure that the retirement age increases, and we will reassess it. For the first time, we have succeeded in motivating both, namely employment and the pension rate. This means that this excuse from both sides – one of them says they want to go, the other say that they don't employ me – no longer applies, but that both can be monetized and turned on both screws. These are things that, of course, have to be budget-covered and which are set here. As far as the labour market is concerned, we have a truly good and stable budget that can be seen. And it is not a question – that has already been suggested by many previous speakers; not only has it been suggested, but also said: Especially for employee representation it is important to finally have more net of gross. A wage tax reform, which is a relief from the labour factor, is something we have long called for, where we will remain, where we will not give up the pressure, and where we really call on the Federal Government to do everything it can to tackle before 2016, so that the employees in Austria really remain more in the bag of what they work honestly with their hands.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5748	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5769	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear visitors! Some speakers have repeatedly tried to present this as if the hypo had no impact on the budget. [[The speaker shall draw up a chart of graphics and the heading ‘State debt’. Austria well compared” to the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's too small!]] [[Further calls.]] I would also like to clarify this by means of a graphic presentation, because that is not correct. Ladies and gentlemen, you see here on this graphic illustration that our government debt increases to 79 percent. You see the effects of hypo: If the hypo tax had not been included – but we must add that – we would have stayed at 73.7 percent. This is clearly presented here. I can also show this for the deficit, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker holds another panel.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's even smaller!]] In 2014, we will have a deficit of 2.7 percent, which is very high. However, if we had only 1.4 percent, the hypo tax would not be reported in the 2014 budget. The statement, ladies and gentlemen, that the hypo has no impact on our budget. That's not right! What is claimed here is false. We have been transferred from the Bear valley, and of course this has a negative impact on the budget! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Nachbaur, you said: ‘The greedy state that cannot control its expenditure’. – It is very important to us and to this Federal Government that we move down the debt mountain, that we reduce expenditure. No number has yet been mentioned. What budget are we talking about? – I am vice-bourgeois master in a small community, and there it is the most essential thing to ask: What sum are we talking about? We are talking about the expenditure, so that the population also knows – I am the first speaker to say how high our budget is – of €75.7 billion in 2014, and in 2015, Mrs. Rebauber, it is €74.7 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] That is, the state reduces its expenditure by € 1 billion within a year – that is also for clarification! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Next point: We are implementing reforms. As social spokesperson of the People's Party, I would just like to give an example because my time for more is not enough, but there are many reforms, the example of pensions, since this is also very current because with 1. January 2014 Measures – at least the Stronach team has not yet been fully represented in this House when we decided on these measures in 2012 – have entered into force. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is for the ÖVP, I think, in general, so that time is running out!]] These are the changes in the long-term insurance scheme, not more than 60 years old, but 62 years old, the changes in the corridor pension, the abolition of the disability pension for under 50 years old – and also more moderate pension adjustments, for which we also thank the pensioners quite much. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Whether they've been asked?]] Reforms are being made and implemented, and we have set the target of 60,1 years of retirement in the government programme. Ladies and gentlemen! A retirement pension about a week later means € 25 million less expenditure if you charge it to a year. This is illustrated here on this graphic and means €1.3 billion more in the government budget. Reforms are being made. Also, ladies and gentlemen, in the Ministries – 500 million € this year, 300 million € next year. A yes to a strict savings course, but we don't want to cut down. And there is no one strangled and nothing strangled, as is always claimed here. On the contrary! We're investing wisely. We invest in the families around €1.5 billion, including childcare. We invest in research because it is very important for the future – a plus of € 300 million. And we invest what is very important in the labour market: 350 million € have already been decided to activate an active labour market package because it is important to us that people in our country have jobs that they can pursue a job. This budget is a good budget. In any case, it deserves the approval of Members in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5887	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e5909	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! I warmly welcome you – I have just seen my friends from the Inn district; we meet later. [[towards gallery]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor is always very happy to draw the Hypo Alpe-Adria as an excuse for our budget having worse figures that the deficit is getting bigger and debt is increasing. – That was never doubted by us. Of course, it has consequences. The dear August Wöginger has also repeatedly pointed out that the hypo has effects, but I say to you: This has not had an impact on the tax rate! Austria's tax rate is now higher than that of Sweden. And Sweden, the former model country of social democracy, has halved its debt at a time when we constantly increased our debt and had a corresponding budget. Sweden has even had a budget surplus for years and has sustained its state budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Sweden has made a act of strength and has not changed the social state, as the Social Democrats always paint on the wall. That's okay, but only if you want to do it. Mr Vice-Chancellor said that we are not making any proposals. - That's not true. The Court of Auditors alone – we always point out its proposals – has submitted 599 proposals on how we can re-establish our state. The Austrian Convention has also made proposals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply not enough to address the main problem of this republic, namely that we probably take a lot of money from the people – high tax rate et cetera – but on the other hand we are not prepared to clarify and question the state, the state structure as a whole. I said in my speech yesterday that we have some antique state structures. We have nine federal states that are now more or less determined by this state. After all, the national conference is almost not legitimised by the EU Commission, but it determines what is to be done at the end of the day. [[Abg. Kogler: Annoyance!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I'm just waiting for the financial compensatory negotiations now, and I'm just waiting for it to come back to a whip for the money to be distributed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This can be solved very easily in part: I give tax authority to the heads of state, and they should also take out the money they spend in their countries from the people themselves. Then it looks very different. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, representatives of the Stronach team and the Abg. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's what the Haider eh did!]] We need to make the state slimmer. There are plenty of ways to save – be it in education, health, pensions, but above all in subsidies, which are always addressed. If we grant double, triple, quadruple subsidies, it always says: The transparency database would help us!, but if not even the one level of legislation can look into what the other level of subsidies gives, how can you possibly achieve savings anywhere? That's how mayors can switch and act as they want. In this way, national leaders can switch and operate, and at the end of the day also the individual ministries. Then there are simply subsidies which take triple, quadruple, fivefold subsidies. [[Abg. Wheelers: I don't know!]] And that's what the state costs most and the budget suffers. I know, Rädler, you're used to it from Lower Austria, because you have a very own system. That you do not want to give this, it is perfectly clear to me, for you are suppressing your people with your subsidies! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I can only say one thing if I repeat yesterday's quotations by Mr Vice-Chancellor: Yes, if you work hard, you should keep more money in your pocket in the future. Therefore: Get down with the entry tax rate! Get up with the progression stages! People need more money again so they can decide their own lives so that they can have money in their pocket and no longer depend on getting transfers!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6036	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6074	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Two quotes or statements will briefly concern me, which have come from the government bank. Mr Finanzminister, you started yesterday with: Austria, the land of the mountains, but a mountain is too much. - Yes, a nice try. Karl-Heinz Grasser has always written and poemd this way, but he has not abandoned the German anthem, his sayings have had more to do with the big corporations. But let's leave it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] - Yes, yes. I did not say that; we will come back to it today. In any case, I would like to address this: Austria – you know, we are “overbanked”, we have too many banks – is certainly also the country of banks. And Austria has a bank too much, the ones you bought back, without need. That's what I'm going to deal with. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] But I have changed my scheme because you are constantly claiming here – you too, Mr Vice-Chancellor, too – that the opposition would not have any proposals. – So all this more than this fundamental fat government. I'll tell you why. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to give the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany the right way to do this – with which I can start a lot, let us say so – when he quotes Matthias Horx: He, Horx, rub your eyes. This is actually a flourishing country – and so on and so on. How many times have we said here that we are actually doing well in Austria, especially in other countries, even in Europe and in the world anyway? All in all, we're good at it. The fact that the distribution question already has a sluggish situation is clear, I can't deal with it now in 5 minutes. But let's take that. This is certainly not a coincidence either. There is also a share of government policy, but some of them are in spite of government policy, and I am convinced of that. Now on our proposals, because one is always overlooked – this saying is also known, but still right, it is unfortunately becoming more true –: We also keep from the bacon in the chamber. It says anyway everyone to all “reforms”; it is also ideology driven, who then wants to start where. The opposition is far from one opinion either. I say one thing to you, however, because I do not let this apply as you have cut off Mr Rossmann here, who is constantly sufficient, intensifying, so that your Members can often no longer hear it, in the Financial Committee, in the Court of Auditors Committee, make proposals and analyses as to how it could be done differently, where 90 to 95 percent of the decisions – and I have years of responsibility in both committees – fall unanimously. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] So you're not coming from the government bank and you're squatting Members here just because they're from the opposition! You've been in government for too long. But this is the problem of you and the problem of Austria. But there you can't point to the opposition, nor to it with false restraints. Now I'm telling you what's been doing a long time ago. Your predecessor, whom I very much appreciate, not because of the state of emergency, but Josef Pröll, in essential areas alone, has brought much more ambition than you both heads of government together in all these reform projects. Unfortunately, I have to say that. We from the opposition were involved: School administration, then Chancellor. – Failure at the heads of state. Yeah, where do they belong? Are these greens loud? Is that loud blue? - They're red and black. So far, the national conference has blocked almost everything that is reasonable. That must be said once. What was it – next to the school administration? – Although the issue of economic promotions is already large in Loipersdorf, you have moved back to the long-term bank. There are not only millions there, there are billions to get, right? We are very much making proposals for savings. We also know the abuses due to the Court of Auditors' work that we are doing that are actually blocking you. Economic promotions, for example: Threefold track, municipalities, especially the countries and the federal government, but especially the countries. There large corporations are promoted to write the most profits, anyway in the Styria. There is an economic support budget, which still has relatively considerable sums. And then there are loud special donations in the government decisions that are intrusive to the going no longer, in order to get rid of those who already have a lot of money. That's not going on. You're moving it to the long bench. And these are the possibilities where you can do something; Small things, but they sum up, which are not addressed. But people don't remember. Heeresspitäler, who no longer needs people. They are inefficient, three times they should have been abolished. They're still here and they're costing us tens of millions. Where are your initiatives? Who would point out that? - The opposition. We still have three weather services. [[Abg. Doppler: Four!]] Who needs that? – The mergers have failed. Read the Court's reports! If it wasn't so tragic, it'd be comedian scripts. That's also the condition, not only, but also. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you don't do it, it's the opposition's job to point it out. Yeah, what else? What else? Now we come to the revenue side for a short time – opinions are going apart – but only so that it is clear on the table again. It's really about the big throws and not about these little round doctors. The great deal would be that we are finally going down with the additional wage costs or, actually, pay-as-you-go payments. There we are, unfortunately, world champions. Counter-financing must be guaranteed as long as the deficit and the debt mountain are actually so high. And of course we explain this to you with a counter-funding on the one hand in the ecological field – here we are completely behind it – and on the other hand in the field of tax justice. It cannot be that millions of heirs in this country are still walking tax-free. Now do something once and don't always preach!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6157	Next speaker is the executive club ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6179	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What we find here is a superlative budget. Records in all areas: We have record debts like Austria has never had in recent decades. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! If you think here that we are still on the same footing with Germany, I would like to point out that Germany had a huge clot on the leg, namely the reunification. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And I wonder, Where's our clot? [[Abg. Lopatka: In Carinthia! The hypo!]] – I can tell you: It is this government that is unable to carry out reforms that are unable to take a forward-looking path. It's the tax payer's clot in this country. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] Mr Finanzminister! I think this budget is no reason to celebrate. The body language of the rulers yesterday also showed how the individual agents looked at three when you explained the budget to us for an hour and a half. We have a tax and tax ratio as high as never before. We have unemployment, which we cannot talk down, not even with the argument that we say, well, we are the same as Germany at 4.8 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the beautiful variant, that's the beautiful calculation. If we look at the national unemployment rate, we are actually 8.4 percent. And that is the second worst value in this republic; the second worst value, because only 1953 we had 8.7% more unemployment. That should make us think. This should give you the courage, above all, to take up reforms and not to continue on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this disastrous budget, you have spoken of a ‘trend of the trend’. I've been thinking about what the fundamental change is. Where is this trend change noticeable in Austria? – I tell you, the trend is as follows: We go from Austria to “Österarm”. That's your policy. You have to answer for them. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have a loss of prosperity that everyone now feels. Talk to the pensioners outside! Talk to the workers! Talk to the entrepreneurs! Do not stay in your tower up, removed from the population, but go down and talk to the people! Then you will notice how much this loss of prosperity has already become. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! If you think it's all just a blow to the opposition that the economic location is constantly getting worse, I have to tell you that the "New Zurich Newspaper" is not a typical opposition sheet. This is because it writes that a massive brain rest is to be expected in the next few years, that many very well-trained young people are already leaving the country, that they simply migrate because they no longer see a future in Austria. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Brain drain!]] And it's unique – so I haven't experienced this yet – that bosses of large corporations are standing up and saying we're thinking about whether we're not out of the headquarters and going to another country. This, too, is your form of politics – your form of politics, which is based on it – even there is a trend turn and there is a clear change – to control even more and to take the individual even more into the pliers. There's supposed to be 550 new auditors. That's where you can talk out how you want and say an old man. We do not believe this because your colleague from the SPÖ has said that we are in control and we will employ several people there. With 550 new financial controllers, the economy is even more under pressure. In doing so, you're even more discouraging the young people that they're thinking of ever becoming independent. This control of individuals, the restriction of personal freedom, since, I think, that is this aspect of 1,000 more police officers on the street. I think, in the future, taxpayers have to expect that behind every shrub, behind every bush someone stands and sees if they drive too fast and if the individual does not move one millimeter out of the law. [[Abg. Auer: What do you want now? More security, less police? More tax justice?]] Mr Auer, there are clear indications. A police colleague said: We're being asked to punish people. We are asked to commit so many crimes every week. Is that the state you want to live in? - Not me! I would like to live in a state in which freedom is a value which is also lived down from above and which has opportunities for the citizen to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, don't underestimate taxpayers! Either you change your trend, i.e. the trend to get more and more into the wallet, or the taxpayer will, in the next elections, stop the trend of the red-black government, the red-black coalition – and others will sit on the government bank.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6263	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6284	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I will try to make a factual check on the statements made in yesterday's budget speech, but above all in the government programme and the actual reality of this budget. Clearly, the budget is the screenplay of a country. With this budget you are giving the direction, but you can already see that the script has in reality been relatively constant and equal for decades. I can't see the real trend change either. A lot of projects have been reported since 2016, but let's look at what's inside. However, I would also like to say that you are giving a direction, you are setting accents, for example in the family sector. That's what we think is good and right. However, I would like to repeat what I said yesterday, namely that for families, especially young families, the tax burden is a very massive issue. The more urgent it is to actually talk about a tax reform soon. A short aspect of the free gear, I would like to say: I think, since yesterday, the citizens out there know even more clearly that this is not a free gear. They know, too, because it only takes place from the 4th grade, but most regulatory needs are already from the 3rd degree of gravity. Of course, it is important to have social dimensions, social aspects of politics. But the question is: Is this really an effective measure? – I could compare it like this: At €80 million a year – which is about what the free gears cost – you can put the entire area of child and youth psychology and psychology on proper structurally good legs. And that's where you have to weigh off. The question is, do you simply place dental clamps? Can you place tooth joints better than perhaps children who are mentally stable and healthy? I would like to say something about the savings. That's not where I see the script. In reality, there is the great lawn mower principle. These budgets do not set any priorities, the main structural reforms will move you to 2016 – I will come to them – you are now – because I also said to write the script – continuing the past to the future and in principle continuing what you have done the years before. A few fact-finding checks: You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, said yesterday in your budget speech: Whoever works, he must have more in his pocket too! The tax system should be adjusted and the tax rate reduced. This is perfectly correct, but now it does not concern the project for the next two years. The fact is that last year the state raised € 142 billion in taxes and social contributions. This is 14 percent more than three years ago. Austria is indeed a high tax country. You can happily appreciate that these taxes are bubbling that revenue. They also have the principle of hope. I think it is realistic, but of course your budget is projected to be 1.7 percent growth, which is already a significant increase in growth compared to the 0.4 percent we had. But of the fact that work is worth it right now, you really can't be a talk, because you – and you know that – burn more money for the next few years than you actually do. Second point: The government programme states: a creative growth pact and the safeguarding of prosperity through economic and entrepreneurship. The main volume in this government package on the business location concerns the abolition of company tax by €100 million per year from 2016. Of course, we support this very much. I'm just wondering: If you are already questionable about how you will achieve the zero deficit, how will you actually address structural reforms from 2016 on? You are already distributing money that you actually do not have now and may not have in 2016. In addition, it includes: Your government programme is hardly really concrete. But I'd like to tell you one thing. It's inside: “ Tourist stays of 131 million by 2018. to 140 million. increase by providing sufficient funding for Austria’s advertising. ” But contrary to your announcement, the contribution to Austria's advertising will not be increased. Furthermore, the contribution has not been valorised since 2003. Therefore, in this area there is a real loss of value of 24.5 percent over the past 11 years. In short, on the topic of gender equality: Of course – and this is also true of all the experts – the measures you have taken – I give you the right to take measures – are not sufficient to secure the pension system in the long term. These are too few measures to actually increase the actual retirement age as effectively as it would be necessary. And we always say that a single policy is necessary. Of course, it is also – and this is what many grandparents tell us, including from the point of view of the elderly people – a cryous injustice that you know that you will impose this burden on the next generation. My colleague Gerald Loacker will continue to address the pension system. I would like to add another brief aspect on important reforms, which have already been remembered by the EIA. In October 2012, you said, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that in the face of a €7 billion grant to the ÖBB, you could imagine their partial privatisation. That was in an interview on the 1st. ==References== Due to the forced expansion, the debt of the railway rose by €601 million to €20.8 billion, the payments of the public hand to the railway by around €150 million. The ÖBB received more than € 965 million for the above-mentioned performance orders. I believe that this is also an area where we could give more courage to think about structural reforms. One more point – Mr Wöginger is not here now –: No one has said about the opposition, the hypo does not burden the budget. That's ridiculous. It's not fair, either, if you say so. Of course, the hypo is burdening the budget, not a question. But what we want to express is what I said earlier: They're continuing the past. This federal government would also have a problem with the budget without hypo, because necessary structural reforms are not addressed. I would like to say something, Mr Vice-Chancellor. They said the opposition was caught in their role. – The government is trapped in its role! Their two parties, SPÖ and ÖVP, are caught by their own national party members. Why are you afraid of the financial settlement negotiations? Why is there nothing about federalism? Why don't you put together social security funds? Why don't you finally go about changing the funding policy in Austria? – Because you are trapped in these structures, in the inner party structures, in the power relations you have established between the country and the federal government. That's the real reason! [[It was in favour of NEOS and Greens, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Right! But point to the opposition!]] And please don't say that there are no concrete proposals from the opposition. - I've got it up to myself: Since the beginning of this legislative period, there have been 88 parliamentary initiatives that have postponed red and black in the committees. The proposals are coming, please just listen!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6345	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6366	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard some proposals from the opposition side, such as: no free gears. And the colleague Dietrich would like to abolish the tax audits. To this end, I would like to say something: We want the people in Austria to be affluent through performance And not by tax evasion. Your proposal or your statements here have more than shocked me. You really should go in there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to continue with the fact-finding of the colleague Meinl-Reisinger and make it clear that Austria invests around €8 billion in education per year. This is a plus of € 185 million in the 2014 and 2015 budget years and by no means a reduction, as some people want to say. Nevertheless – and this is not to be concealed – the Minister of Finance is demanding a consolidation contribution, which, of course, is particularly challenging to the Ministry of Education, probably with greater challenges than other ministries, because the Ministry of Education hardly has any reserves. In addition, important jointly decided educational innovations, such as the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25, have cost the wide-ranging roll-out of the New Secondary School and many funding measures, resources. They are, however, best placed money, are investments in the future, offensive measures, which are also to be continued and expanded. This means, however, that despite the increase, a consolidation contribution is very difficult, especially in the short term. There should be savings through administrative reforms that are urgently needed. That's our opinion. However, it is only in the longer term, even if you – and I would like to take up your proposal, Mr Kogler – from three weather stations. Sometimes I think you don't need a prophetic gift at all, you might also be able to say the weather. Back to education budget: This consolidation contribution is by no means to be underestimated, so I have expressed myself skeptically in advance, because I do not want to accept quality losses in education. I do not have to accept this either, because it is now gratifying to find a good solution with the countries, because – and this has to be borne in mind once again, because it seems that not all of them have yet noticed – the unsolicited funds for all-day school forms are being advanced for budget consolidation. These will, of course, be readily available now, and overall, will facilitate the use of these funds by increasing the amount of money available for each group, for staff support and also for construction aid, because the money will eventually arrive at the children's disposal. That's our common concern! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6420	Next word: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6442	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Strong companies are a guarantee of a stable budget. Today is “Employer’s Day”, and we can also say thank you to our entrepreneurs in Austria, because without employers no jobs, without strong economy no growth and no budget without growth. Thank you to the employers and, of course, also to the workers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget, which we have drawn up here, also includes measures for growth and employment. This is very important, because the entrepreneurship medium-sized Austria employs 2 million people and employs thousands of apprentices in almost 35 000 establishments. And these co-operate with 160 lead companies, which are of course also very important for our location. That's where we're going! We want to keep the location competitive and further expand Austria to an attractive location. Now it is the case that we have the first time we have a turn in the additional wage costs, which is not going up, but down. We've been trying to do this for years, now we're doing it. The topic of bureaucracy: We're starting to cut down the bureaucracy. We have the first time reduced the number of officers, and we will take further steps. Measures are not only promised, they will also be implemented. Social tax has also been mentioned more often today. This too will fall away. I think this is also an important measure for our location. There is also a set of priorities – and this is very important to me – for greater competitiveness and for a more attractive economic location, for innovation and for young companies. To meet the FTI strategy, we increase the research budget for 2014 and 2015 to over 100 million for the first time. There are 300 million additional for basic research for 2016 to 2018. It's also very important: We have an attractive location, and we have one of the best agencies, the Austrian Business Agency, which is constantly trying to get companies to Austria. Our location agency is very high, it is at the World Bank absolute top address. I think it is also worth applause that our entrepreneurs have the opportunity to obtain and cooperate with colleagues from abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because the promotions are always addressed: Col. Reisinger, you said you wanted to expand Vienna into a start-up hub. Your colleague Strolz says: Get away with the promotions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We have reserved 100 million € for start-ups for the first time this year. Last year we spent €63 million on 2 000 start-up companies. These are on average €30 000 per company. Wings You take this away from them? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I've got to say, You should become clear in your ranks what you want: promote or delete! We are in favour of giving young entrepreneurs an opportunity to support them, and that is why we are taking more money into our hands here too. Ladies and gentlemen! Our management companies and our entrepreneurs have a good contact in us, they are excellently positioned, and with their diligence and commitment they generate a lot. This also includes framework conditions, and they must be stable, and these framework conditions are what we are creating. Another word on tax reform: When it comes to tax reform, it is certain that we can only do it if we create a margin. And we can only create this scope by further reforms, because tax reduction on the one hand and increase on the other, I think that is the wrong way. That is why there are no new debts with us and, above all, no new taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6536	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6559	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the televisions and on the audiences! What most economic experts wonder about is that unlike other countries that have already been mentioned, the tax revenue is bubbling in Austria and the debt mountain is growing at the same time. This is the Austrian paradox that we do not see in other European countries. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The other is reversed in the case of debt and in the case of tax revenue. As I said, what happens here in Austria is nowhere else. The main responsibility for this – it has already been sounded – is the SPÖ and the ÖVP, which do nothing in this federal government, but to lurk each other, to distrust each other, to hinder each other and to block each other. In addition, this SPÖ/ÖVP government in Austria has a negotiating partner, namely a SPÖ/ÖVP national conference, where one in turn blocks each other at all levels. This is the Austrian government of the standstill! And this budget clearly shows that this is actually being rewritten. Why don't you take the education budget? We have already heard that 50 million do not have to be saved because they have not been picked up. They ensure that the whole day form is still better developed. This is the same logic and argument as if you were to say: When I close police posts, I save, and then security gets better! So: If I'm saving all day care, I'll get better all day care! – You really cannot explain this logic to the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else about education policy and these 8 billion, and I am not talking about these 50 million on or off, or is it 100 next year? – Whatever: The key statement in the Austrian education system is that in the OECD comparison we pay a third more in the education system, but only below average we arrive at a lot in classrooms and in schools. That's the main problem! You could probably pump billions into our education system just as you are dealing with school and education policy, but it wouldn't happen in school classes because one happens, and that means holding power. This is really the true kitt that SPÖ and ÖVP have made in Austria a tension. The true kitt is preservation of power – addressed to the ÖVP – when it comes to educational matters. The SPÖ makes the proposals in terms of content. The ÖVP asks: What about the personal sovereignty when we do this or that? It says the SPÖ: You don't need to worry, you can continue to occupy the directorial and teacher offices! And then this is a good educational reform. This is the only access that the EIA has ever had in the debate on education! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Wöginger meant that the pensioners would have to thank them for accepting the moderate adjustments without murren. [[Call the FPÖ:Frequent!]] Who asked the pensioners so they could even thank them? I only know two pensioners who were asked if the pension increase fits: These are Mr. Blecha and Mr. Khol. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If they look at their pension notes the first month, they think: Well, well, I can actually afford the daily pack of milk with 1.6 percent! But I have to say that I don't know if everyone actually needs a pack of milk a day. Mr Khol has indeed made a great statement, which is also important for the next elections – I am thinking of the EU election – and also says something about the situation in the EIA. He said – I quote – in July 2011: “For me, the ÖVP has always been an additional proof of God. There must be a good God, otherwise there would have been no ÖVP for a long time." – Reading in the “Small Newspaper” of July 2011. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to hurt any religious feelings, religion is private, but if you choose, no matter what choice, you should consider what you say. We want to make policy for this world, not politics for the beyond, and that is why we should also choose parties that help people here on earth. Others are responsible for the other areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A question arises in this debate, also around the hypo that is still ringing here: Why are the SPÖ and the ÖVP so fond of the liberals that there is no committee of inquiry where it is finally found that the liberals are the true evil throughout the hypo? [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] Why is this government so fond of the FPÖ? I don't understand what we deserved it with. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] Please, dear Government, tell us! – Although this hypo solution has something to do with it, it reminds me of the White Star Line at Titanic. There has also been a Commission, and it has freed the White Star Line from any debt and responsibility. Only the captain who died in this accident was the solo debt. There's nothing else about it: The responsibility is to be pushed into a dead person's shoes! When it comes to nothing else, which is ringing through, it is always a so-called bathroom bank solution that floats in space. I say one to a Bad Bank in Austria: There's only one bad bank in Austria, and that's the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6645	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6667	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate members of the government! It is their self-satisfaction that becomes a stumbling block for development in this country. They are content to manage the past and manage the downtime. And that, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, is too little! That's too little for Weitem, and that's what we've seen for years. We have the problem of falling back in many different rankings for years. The Innovation Union Scoreboard clearly shows that targets that have been decided to become innovation leader or raise to the first three will not be achieved. We have been falling gradually for years, we have landed at number nine from the sixth place. This is an example of how Austria develops and how bad it is about the development of the research location. Mr Finanzminister! You have said here today that the Federal Financial Framework clearly shows a trend change. I'll tell you: The field of research shows exactly the opposite. For example, if you are subdividing 33: Economics (research) then you will see that the budgets are frozen, and that until 2018. In the context of the inflation rate, this is a step backwards. The same is true of the budgets in the UG 34, from which the FFG is financed. These frozen budgets are also evident there. We can see clearly: We also have a standstill at the research rate. But research and innovation in particular are the basis for development in enterprises and for job creation. One thing is clear: In research, standstill is a step backwards – a step back that we cannot afford! Now to the business sector: Mr. Finanzminister, you mentioned yesterday in your budget speech that in the field of business, four agents will be abolished, the craftsman bonus will be introduced and a business portal will be created in 2018. These are very, very thin measures. These are not the big throws it would need! [[Vice chancellor Spindelegger: For the companies this is a big throw!]] Just a few comments about the craftsman bonus: As far as the craftsman bonus is concerned, there is, for example, in Germany the Court of Auditors' recommendation to abolish it because it is inefficient. However, it will be introduced in Austria – that is not a good example! We need measures for one-person companies and for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, the flat association working room's flattenability, or the increase in the thresholds for small-scale goods. Of course, SMEs and the EPUs need a reduction in bureaucracy and clear laws, simplified support measures. And what no money would cost at all would be to finally make good framework conditions for financing businesses and energy transition projects, keyword: crowdfunding. For a year, we have had a mutual blockade of SPÖ and ÖVP. That would be a measure that would actually help businesses! That's what you have to work on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the major topic of "Investment in Infrastructure": Gentlemen on the government bank, you're blind to the chances. The budget for the environment and climate protection is cut, although it offers great opportunities for green jobs. That's a serious mistake! A sustainable economic location obviously needs powerful networks, a broadband expansion. Exactly with this broadband offensive, which has been spoken of for years, where you have promised that 1 billion will be invested in this area, will be saved again. There is no money to expand the networks throughout the regions, in the municipalities. But that would be very important for households, but especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Danninger, State Secretary, is quoted in the APA with the words that broadband development will be implemented if there are more scope. Mr State Secretary, I say to you: The future is not a game, the future must be designed! And for that, it takes a lot of vision, courage and consequence.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6732	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6754	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Appreciate members of the government! Dear taxpayers who have to pay for everything! Mr Spindelegger, first of all I can address my words to you personally. Mr Finanzminister, you yesterday, in your speech, tried Austrian geography, the mountains, wherever you are sure to be, like all of us. There we walk back and forth, some even going uphill, some climbing. Mr Spindelegger, you are certainly not a freeclimber, because when you climb to the debt mountain, you got caught back in the ropes yesterday and once again tied up and proved that you are not the detachment artist when you presented yourself some time ago. Unfortunately, you are only the supporter of your clients, because we have not heard any new additions to the budget yesterday in your speech. We have not heard a word about structural reforms, and above all we have not discovered a excavator with which to reduce the debt. This is all very disappointing for the citizens and for us in the House anyway, and I think that the suffering for the government may still be very low, because the elections are still very far away. But the suffering of the citizens is very high. Something else is disappointing: We have a very proven and well-established parliamentary aid organization, that is, a mountain rescue service for our political culprits, and that is the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is an institution of the National Council, which has already given us a number of valid proposals over the past few years that can be used by the government. Unfortunately, these 599 proposals, which contain the last Court of Auditors package, have hardly yet been implemented in my knowledge. If so, then perhaps only in small areas, which have not really been brought to our attention. I'm very sorry. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In my view, this is a failure of the Court of Auditors, and since the Court of Auditors is an institution of the National Council, it is also a disregard for the National Council. The National Council is committed to the Sovereign, and the Sovereign is the people, and therefore it is also a certain disdain of the people who must stand up for everything that is happening here. I can remind the government and perhaps all of us without a school mastery, which is a minister. Minister is called in German Servants. A minister is a servant of the people. The chief servant of the people, but he is a servant of the people. Ministers have therefore been stopped to fulfil their task according to best knowledge and conscience, and ministers have opportunities, very many possibilities. Especially in the hypo disaster there are possibilities, and there are possibilities to save meaningfully. The funding has been addressed several times today. We are leading Europe as far as funding is concerned. We have most grants from all over Europe. And if only we were to cut the funding to the EU cut, we would have a savings in the budget of €9 billion. In my view, not even a euro has been saved from subsidies and subsidies! That's where the clientele is left alone. Nobody's being affected. Everything's left with the old man. – I feel very sorry about that too. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Paradox is also that we really swim in money. This can be clearly read in any statistics, in any newspaper report and by any expert working on it. We took €147 billion. Not 142, as the colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger said earlier, it was 147 billion € in 2013, as much as never before. We are money swimmers, but we are not able to do something about this money because expenditure policy is simply not being changed. We don't save, we're gonna cut out the money, and we're gonna keep making debt. And if we cut back where, we'll just cut back on the delicate areas that irritate the citizens. We cut back on safety, and we're cutting down on education in particular. I think this is a disaster that is at least equal to the hypo disaster. You don't do anything with pensions; this has already been the subject several times today. 10 billion € per year, the government closes to the pensions. In 2025, we have the cäsur badhin, then the baby boomers go to retirement. The baby boomers, these are the strong births from the 1960s. I'm part of that, too. I don't have to worry about the pension because I am thank God in a professional segment where you can earn half-time. However, many others do not have this happiness and are dependent on the fact that there are good pensions. You're afraid it won't be like that in the future. The next generation – the word “one-fit” – and the next generation no longer have the opportunity to get what the current ones receive from pension at all. I always remember the movie “Apollo 13”, which some of you have probably seen, with Tom Hanks in the lead role. In the film “Apollo 13” the famous and truly pronounced word is: Houston, we've got a problem! – You know the oxygen tank has exploded at Apollo 13. The oxygen supply for the astronauts is coming to an end, and Houston – Goes out well, yes, but I'm coming to talk about why it works out well. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is a real picture he has chosen there!]] At “Apollo 13” there is a basis, the Cape Canaveral, and the Cape Canaveral, that is, please very much, the Court of Auditors and the opposition – and not the government, because the government is in the rocket! [[Abg. Lopatka: The government!]] [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: This is a mistake! That's a wrong comparison!]] That is why I consider the accusations expressed by the government bank today that the opposition is always only cracking around and criticizing, quite wrong, for we are the saviors of the nation! We point out what is good and right. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have also heard some times today the comparison with the EU partner Sweden, and this is mentioned again and again: the country of Sweden with its really successful reforms. To this end, I would like to say that unemployment statistics in Austria are not comparable to those of Sweden. It is said by you again and again that in Sweden unemployment would be much higher than with us. – That’s not true, because with us the unemployed, as we know, are hidden in trainings, et cetera. Unemployment is about the same as specialists will confirm. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is completely wrong what you say! In Sweden!]] – Then prove to me the opposite! After all, Sweden has the courage to carry out reforms. There are only two figures to conclude: In Austria, 43 percent of citizens between 55 and 65 years of age work. In Sweden, it is 73 percent of the citizens who still work at this age. - That's all I'm saying! Please, let's all go to Sweden together and take a piece of Sweden to Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6882	The next item is Mrs Mlinar's speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e6932	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! I assume that Then correct what you didn't fit in with the previous speaker. I have a different orientation of my speech. I think we people are orienting on what is happening around us. We look around, look at the edge of the plate as possible and set our goals. And then and when we ask ourselves if we have achieved these goals or whether we are at least on a good path there. In the budget context, the following is said: When you wonder how effective our efforts are, the question arises to me, to whom we compare ourselves, to what we measure ourselves to and what our all the reference system is. Here's my question: Do we want to orient ourselves at the lower edge of the scale or do we put our goals higher and focus more on states that are regarded as models in the international context? Or do we not want to become a model ourselves? I therefore ask that because I am no longer so sure of this draft budget and of the comparisons drawn. You, Mr. Finanzminister, have shown us along numerous statistics that Austria is still well above the EU average. That's what I'm saying, yes, you're right. And I also say that I think it is generally known that we are NEOS the clear pro-European movement here in the house. [[Objection to SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: neither the first nor the only!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Russia in the EU! Generous Europe!]] And I think it is now notable that I love Europe, and I have to be surprised almost every day that many others, as well as all the other parties here in the house, are more or less vetoing the EU. [[Abg. Kickl: Europe is not the EU, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you just want to love the EU or change it?]] However, I also tell you that as a great EU friend, I am too little among the top candidates of the European average. [[Abg. Rädler: Hazelsteiner!]] The European average is too little for me, because the comparison with the average literally concurs us on this average. But what we want to be is above average, better yet, we want to be at the top! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's us!]] They say Mr Financier, Austria's financial centre is well positioned. – But why think Raiffeisen and Erste Bank out loud about a departure?, I ask you. According to you, Austria's competitiveness is good. And according to World Competitiveness Scoreboard 2013 by the International Institute for Management Development, Austria is in place 23 out of 60. So I think there's still air up there. We have to compare ourselves with the best if we want to get better, or would you suggest that our ski racers should perhaps compare themselves with those of Malta? This might be very practical for football, but it might not be so for skiing. [[Abg. Prince: We're not that bad again!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: A very hard example that you bring!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Congregation!]] The only comparison with the average, which we believe would be a constructive approach, would be that in the EU-wide tax quotas. If we were to move towards the EU average, this would be a step in the right direction. Whenever it comes to taxes and taxes, we are at the forefront in a direct comparison. It is true that the level of debt in the EU average is very high, because the crisis countries have, of course, come to terms with the result. The same applies, of course, to the comparison of unemployment. If you go here and compare our debts with those of the United States, I have to tell you that this comparison is limping. The same applies to education. Comparative tests in the field of education have not been optimal. And what do we do about it? – Under the pretext of data security, we reject the PISA tests. It may not be that the average is enough for us and, if we feel that we are below average, we are shy of a comparison. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Therefore, my urgent appeal – actually my request – in the representation of our voters: For Austria, the reference size should not and should not be the average, but international models! As far as the examples of successful state reform and successful debt reduction, which is Sweden and Switzerland, are concerned today, I believe that we could also do so in Austria. As far as successful educational reform is concerned, Finland is the point of reference, and this must also be done by Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Only by comparing with better people will you increase or at least become more realistic when it comes to objectively determining your own status. [[Abg. Rädler: A word to Putin!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – I leave that to you, colleague. But I have a final request to you as representative of a government party: North your reference systems, sharpen your subjective perception, and take up some of the suggestions from the opposition series! [[Abg. Prince: We're in there right now!]] Let us do it together instead of, Mr. Cot, continuing to breed hypos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7135	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7166	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I can say something to Mr Mlinar, because we already place a very high value on a situation: With all the difficulties we have here due to the hypo, you must not forget one thing: If we did not have the hypo problem, this shark problem, the problem FPÖ, which caused all of that, we would have an active budget, that is, we would have a surplus. And this can already be seen in Europe. I should also like to say one thing because Mr Mlinar and Mr Franz Sweden have argued: Sweden has twice as high an unemployment rate as Austria! And Austria is in Europe at an absolute peak with the lowest unemployment. That, ladies and gentlemen, is also possible, and we should not pretend that this is not a achievement. That's what we're going to do for everyone else. The Swedish trade union president was in Austria two months ago and looked at this model. I would like to ask the opposition colleagues: It is very important that we exchange ideas here that we learn from each other that we are working together to really identify all measures to improve the budgetary situation here, but it is just as important that we do not forget where we are very well, where we really are European leaders. And at the unemployment rate, we are simply top-notch, and this should be underlined here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to make a small personal proposal on how and where we could save. We all know that we have this huge problem with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, we have a problem that has not arisen from today to tomorrow, but over a longer period of time. And we also know that all the experts and all the politically interested people who looked at Carinthia at the time warned that there is a debt bubble here that this bank is being abused for political action by a country chief who obviously ran out of the row. If this had been considered criminal, then this criminal energy would certainly have been recognized as relevant for criminal purposes, and Mr Haider would have been withdrawn from the traffic. I don't like to go to court with Mr. Haider's family, who can't do anything for his sins. I just know that the family no longer lives in the Bärental and that very good business is being done there. There was also no absolute declaration of inheritance by the family for leaving Haider and thus for the Bärental. I therefore believe that we should think about it – and, Mr Federal Minister, I can cordially invite you to do this together with us, with the support of your house – that we are really thinking about whether this wealth, which has been heard by him, is arrogating by the way! – who has massaged all of this, cannot use it to cover damage by exploiting it, auctioning it. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you feel any more? That's unpackable!]] For example, we could have been able to feed on the Griss Commission on the open questions about the hypo, where you've been so excited about the cost, and would have made a budget contribution, which is also responsible for the damage. That, I mean, would be a good proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7239	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7260	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A budget debate or the first reading is indeed, one could say, always a certain competition of political ideas, the political debate, so under the motto: Who has better concepts, who has better solutions – for labour market policy, for economic policy, for external and internal security, for the stabilisation of financial markets? And if I have heard the proposals from the opposition today, I must say that there was not much to hear except inconsistency, inability, in dustlessness. A rather sad attempt, ladies and gentlemen, to make better proposals here than the government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: such nonsense!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us look around a little in the European environment: Which country has better labour market figures than Austria? Which country has better youth employment than Austria? Which country has a better health policy, which country has greater social security than Austria? [[Abg. New builder: The Khol and the Blecha!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Which country has more banks per head?]] I understand that the opposition has some difficulties following here. I understand that coordination in the opposition is difficult. But that even in a group, with the Stronach team, coordination is problematic, that was really exciting today. That was really exciting! [[Abg. Kickl: You're talking about the ÖVP! This is at all the best example of party coordination, the ÖVP!]] If Mrs. Dietrich goes out of here and complains too much of police, because she wants to live in a free country, and her colleague Dr. Franz complains that we are saving in security, then you need some vote. Your group is not so large that this would not be possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: There are also black country leaders who want to have an investigation committee! They're there too!]] But perhaps my colleague Dietrich still knows how the Freedom Party is. When I was properly informed, she was a time FP-Klubobfrau in the Styrian country day. So she knows the situation with the liberals. One even better expert in the Freedom Party is Mr Stadler, who has plundered a little from the inner circle in these days on the occasion of a trial. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But the accused is not under obligation of truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if a colleague, Stadler, with whom you were once marching hand in hand through the country, so to speak, is reckoning with the FPÖ, with the world champions in the paper production, with Mr Strache, who without his Secretary-General Kickl, it is literally not going to go into trouble here, even if the colleague Strache is surrounded by a circle of right-wing extremes – I do not claim that! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, they were others!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Last-class! Last class! Last class!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Your friend Stadler! Your friend Stadler! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: I'm really disappointed that you say something like that!]] Let's go back to the budget debate! It's exciting: The opposition tells us today that the figures would not hold that the forecasts were wrong, that competitiveness was not given, that the finances were not in order. That's what I've heard in the last five years: The budget was wrong, under false assumptions, and the forecasts were incorrect. It should be noted, however, that in the last five years, the financial statements have been significantly better than forecast, as the budget estimate has been decided here. Then who was right? You or us? – I say: clearly we! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One point I can still address from the point of view of agriculture: Mr Rupprechter has, I believe, put in place proper measures. It has provided prospects for agriculture. He saves in the administration, in the ministry, the budget is sufficient. I should also like to thank the Federal Minister for Finance, Mr Vice-Chancellor, for being able to pick up every euro from Brussels because co-financing is guaranteed. There is also commitment and optimism in the peasantry, Mr Pirklhuber. The fact that 1 040 applications for investment aid have been submitted in Upper Austria in recent days shows that farmers show optimism that they want to invest that they want to secure the future. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Only 16 percent want to invest!]] We will discuss the intensity of the measures in the coming weeks. I am less interested in your control body; They're for controlling, we're for producing.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7499	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7520	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! In his budget speech yesterday, Mr Spindelegger, Minister of Finance, put forward in flowering words, I repeat once again: [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] In his budget speech yesterday, Mr. Finanzminister Spindelegger, in flowering words, explained that for Austria a trend change was being launched, that everything would be good, that everything would develop positively, that, so to speak, the House of Austria would now stand on a stable, modern foundation and have a healthy, sustainable pillar. – I hear the message, only I lack faith. Let us assume that these columns of the house of Austria are made of Austrian wood! They may look outwardly, in fact, still look passive and stable. But what you are hiding from us, Mr. Finanzminister, is that there is a huge worm inside – symbolically speaking. Each of these columns is already very weak. Let's stick to the facts: In recent days, Switzerland and Sweden have often been compared with Austria. The fact is: Public debt 2013 Switzerland 49 percent of GDP, Sweden 41 percent and Austria 79 percent. These are facts that you can't pass. We can now produce beautiful words, but those are the facts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Factically, the Austrian model looks like this, the house of Austria: The foundation, the structural base, is actually from times of monarchy. The pillar one is weakened by autonomous princes who, without tax responsibilities, direct their respective countries according to their particular interests. It's just stupid that the state princes are very often directing their countries in different directions! Pillar two is weakened by trade union special interests. And it should also be possible to take a critical look at the activity of the civil servants' union, which does not always have the whole thing in mind. Pillar three is weakened by a negative dynamic of our pension system. This costs us 17 billion € next year. That is to say, through a dwindling approach, as it is demonstrated, we will not be able to resolve the worst treatment of the younger generation. Pillar four is weakened by the culture of the secondary kingdoms of the social partners, which has long been obsolete in this form. The legal admission of the mandatory memberships in the Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Commerce creates ideal conditions for Starre, for the management of acquired assets and for the preservation of existing privileges. Dynamics can be difficult to unfold. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Pillar five is weakened by the probably true gentlemen of this Republic, namely the banks. For them, the risk-return law was simply suspended. The new law reads as follows: privatize profits, socialize losses. Pillar five is weakened by the probably true masters of the European Union – pillar six, I correct myself – so pillar six is weakened by the probably true gentlemen of the European Union. The five words of one pillar apply. I'm just giving the ESM tag. There we will experience beautiful surprises in the negative sense. Pillar seven is weakened by a non-human, self-operating, cold, unemotional EU machine that thinks exclusively in returns, profits and shareholder values. Finally, column eight is weakened by the debt mountain accumulated by the governments over the decades by now 79.2 percent of GDP, which is € 255 billion. Interest payments alone represent a huge burden on the budget. Of course, the money goes down in other areas. And we're still making debts. So there's no trend change in the view that we're once bringing together a positive budget. – So I hear many messages, but I lack faith. [[Abg. Lopatka: Little believers!]] The fact is that you will not be able to fundamentally change this model, this House of Austria, and make this system sustainable. Why not? – Because You've been standing for this system for 70 years because you've been living this system for 70 years because you've been this system for 70 years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The model has survived; it is precipitated, it belongs fundamentally changed. Fresh forces are needed to do this. To do this, you both need to fall below 50 percent, the better the better.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7645	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Harald Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7671	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated ministers on the government bank! High house! Colleagues Unfortunately, Auer has just evaded. I would very much like to enter into a discussion with him, as he said, as he said, because the proposals of the opposition parties are real. I can remind you: Over 2 000 applications have remained in the last legislative period. Not all of us have agreed, not a question. There were free proposals that we could not support, but at least we would have liked to discuss them that we would have liked to bring them to the House. We would have liked to have done this idea competition that Auer has addressed. It wasn't possible. Again the old mesh: Requests for the opposition will be postponed, shaken and will not even be discussed. [[Abg. Rädler: That will have a reason!]] – If we discussed this, Mr. Collegue, then it would be okay. In advance, you've scrambled this with the arrogance with which you've also argued here again. With this you have argued for five years, with which you have lost all the elections for years now. Just keep doing that! You'll be fine. It's going to be good for Austria in particular because you're getting smaller. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We heard: Save it. No reasonable person will have something against savings in the current situation, after more than a decade of ÖVP finance ministers. It's necessary. We know that. For example, we need to save education for the future of our children. What you're doing: They save on the future of our children through measures that target exactly those that would be most necessary – afternoon care, a very essential point. And when we look at your budget proposal, we see that there are still quite thick chunks hidden, for example, in the future appointment of teachers. I only point out that from 2013 to 2015 we have 1 million € less in the budget in the field of compulsory school teachers. Where the increase is supposed to be, that would interest me. For all day care, I can remind you of the full-bodied promises made by Mr. Federal Chancellor during the election campaign: € 320 million. After the formation of the government, 160 million euros have become out of it. And what we now have for next year is a further reduction of €5 million. Against such increases, please, may God or anyone guard us, for then we are at a difficult point at the end of this legislative period. Unfortunately, a little bit of time is missing. I would like to address the proposals in the field of administrative reform. There too, we have debated reasonablely. There are also proposals that have come from the government which have been supported by us, but which have not been implemented by you. Ladies and gentlemen, the past government, but unfortunately this government too lacks courage for these fundamental reforms. What we need is an approach to the structure. I don't see that right now. We do not need a lawn mower method, as it becomes clear in this budget, but we need courageous investment in the future, especially in the field of education, and we do not have it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7722	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7745	Mr President. High house! Colleagues Auer has been very broad here before and has taken measures by colleague Dietrich, who has spoken out against the fact that many executives are on the street. If he had listened carefully to her, he would know that colleague Dietrich was addressing Vienna, where police officers were being ordered to go to the streets to press in certain amounts of fines for the budget, in German. It can't be! And she's right to stand up against it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In return, we are of course of the opinion that we need a lot of executives, but not to disassemble the drivers as you prefer, ladies and gentlemen, in all possible areas. They're the anti-driver government, because you're tormenting them and pressing them out like lemons. And that's the wrong way! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, enough executives on the street is an important point, but to fight crime, and there it is tremendous. Mr Finanzminister! I don't know if you really know your budget yourself. You said yesterday that you wanted 1,000 extra posts at the police, and you're always talking about extra police. I would like to keep your own budget in mind. We figured it out. From 2013 to 2014 we have less in the executive range 270,5 planning sites, a minus of 270,5! They can also see for themselves, it is subdivided 11, interior; You can calculate that. Only in the administration, in the general administration of the executive – that is, not in the executive, but in the interior – are 884.6 planning points created additional and in the computer engineering area 47.5. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how reality looks – for more security! That is what the government is preaching us, and these are the facts! Let me come up with something else: You said we were not making any proposals. Mr Bundesminister, Minister of Finance! We are very happy to make proposals that can be implemented and which are good. I submitted the application for an executive service law. I was appointed by Mr State Secretary - Sorry, now you are Minister! – addressed by Minister Ostermayer how we want to finance this. . I have also made a request for this, namely that the fines from the KFG sector should be used, which is €200 million a year, to finance the executive service law. These penalties are currently being paid to the social funds of the countries. Ladies and gentlemen! There the money is poured out with bubblings and not controlled how it is consumed. I would like to give you an example of how the money is poured out. I am in my home community in the Social and Housing Committee. You always look when you forgive an apartment as it looks. There people can specify what income they have, what they want to pay for the apartment, and whether and at what height the deposit is manageable. And I really notice this, and this is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the ladies and gentlemen who do not work and who live at the expense of the social state write in there: Deposit no problem – is paid by bra. Then it's inside. Rental height no problem – is paid by bra. Ladies and gentlemen, you can expand this even more. I also know landlords, if they don't release an apartment because it's too expensive, too big and to luxuriously, then they report to the Social Department of the District Headquarters, and this then takes them off the homes and puts their clients in. In the social field, no one has ever dared to think about where one could save where money is wasted and where perhaps we could use it more rationally. That would be my recommendation, Minister of State, to put you there. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Get it on!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7818	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7840	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I can finish the Vorarlberg Phalanx here. We got a nice PowerPoint presentation for the budget. But what we can read in it is anything but beautiful. Once again, because they are so important and because they are quantitatively taking such an important part in pensioning out. The system should be unique and not. You can't make it as a parent fit or whatever you're beautiful talking about, which you're fabricating and not fabricating. It must last in the future, in the present we already have it. The Federal Grant for Pensions, now calculated without an official, is already exceeding the 10-billion-€ limit and will amount to 10.7 billion in 2015. This means an increase of 5 percent compared to 2014, although you base an increase in the actual retirement age at least once on a fictitious basis. By 2018, you want to raise the retirement age to 60,1, which means: It has to go up on average every year for 17 weeks. So even though you pay these 17 weeks a year, you come up to an increase of 5 percent in a year. We would already be at €11 billion in 2015 if you did not have this increase in the retirement age. The problem pension financing grows like a yeast, and you don't get it under control. A seventh of the total budget is already on the rise. What internal contempt They have to do with the younger generation in our country, which can be read on slide 21 of this PowerPoint presentation to the budget. There you will face this €10.7 billion of €7 million under the title “Preserving gender justice”. Please! 0,007 billion € against 10.7 billion under the title Generation Justice! That's from the luxury pensions. That's your generation justice! This is a special class revelation! That is where all voters, especially the generation up to 45, really know what they are about with this federal government. That's really despicable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Katzian: You have no idea!]] – Mr Katzian, that you are not my opinion, I am not surprised at all. [[Abg. Katzian: Not “mind, ” but pure ignorance!]] A harmonisation of pension systems, which is always claimed to be there, is of course not yet there. While we created a pure table in the ASVG from the birth of 1955, the officials only came to the handcushion from the birth of 1976. Once again, the ÖVP has managed to protect its own clients and to protect them from justice. There are some things that remain unfinished, even if you always put it differently. I'm still taking care of it. Of course, it shows how much money we spend on the care. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, 5.3 percent of Austrian care benefits are paid. But we're just pouring money into a pot. In reality, we are pouring money that we do not have, money that we owe, into a barrel without soil, because the government is well aware that we need to do something in the field of care, has not yet developed a concept. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Right now, the Steirers are taking back their model. They have at least started any attempt at financing. The Steirs now say: Please, covenant, do something! Increase the VAT, they say one. Increase the cost of wages, say the others. Now one could bring the experts to a table and then open up to discuss how we can strengthen this permanently for the coming generations. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] You don't do all of this, and you're still messing up like you used to.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7918	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7939	Mr President. High house! When I returned from Skopje yesterday – I was the special coordinator of a multi-day election observation mission there – the newly distributed budget was already waiting for me here in the House. So to the ten kilos, they told me that this convoluted thing would be. So I was part of an OSCE mission. The OSCE is an important organisation that does enormous work, especially in crises; you all know this and hear it again and again in Ukraine. To support this important work was also always a concern of Austrian foreign policy. It was always a concern that conflicts should be resolved in a diplomatic way, through discussions and mediation, and not by violence or by weapons. As a neutral country, we have always been able to position ourselves well and influence ourselves. I am glad that Foreign Minister Briefly, with several initiatives, ensures that Vienna is revived as a place of international dialogue. As a UN location, Vienna is of course also an ideal place to hold international summits, because this commitment to the joint institutions of the State community is also reflected in the budget. I am glad that this fundamental commitment to international diplomacy is preserved even in budgetaryly difficult times. This includes the OSCE. Austria's contribution to the OSCE will be reduced by € 85 000 this year. This is unfortunate, but is not much in relation to total expenditure in this area. Finally, we spend €80 million on international organisations – money that is urgently needed to create peace and security. We will talk about setting priorities for the contributions in the Committee. I assume that there is a logical explanation for the fact that the contributions to UNICEF are being halved – just to give an example. That would be the strongest reduction of all organizations. On the contrary, the contributions are for the South Sudan and for Darfur. A humanitarian crisis is under way here, and additional funds are also needed. However, I would like to refer to the large drops of advertising of the draft budget in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: This is development cooperation. It is our small contribution to greater justice, to poverty, and this, unfortunately, is getting even smaller. I therefore hope that we will create an shoulder closure here so that our contribution becomes bigger and not smaller. I therefore also welcome Mr Bayr's initiative to work on an amendment here. You may know what has become known as a butterfly effect: Even a small change in the starting position can ultimately result in great things. This should also be our guideline for the foreign ministry's budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e7990	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8012	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Every year, the Austrians experience again in the presentation of the budget that the opposition prefers to look into the past and, in part, to criticize things highly contradictoryly – rather than together, to shape the future! To the budget: The Causa Hypo vulgo FPÖ disaster is unfortunately unchangeable. We have to take these into the budget. But we must look to the future, that is the essential thing. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who's sitting...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Therefore: Let's put the facts on the table! – Ladies and gentlemen, you will be happy to speak later. [[Abg. Neubauer:... why the ÖVP is also sitting there!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Which hypo are you talking about?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Despite a challenging economic situation and the free hypo-deaster, Austria will be under the Maastricht deficit’s 3-percent mark in 2014. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Which hypo are you talking about?]] At the same time, the structural budget deficit will be improved compared with 2013, and as early as 2015, we will even reach the 1-percent mark on the structural deficit. [[Calls and calls between representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This actually corresponds to a trend change in our national debt! A trend turnaround and perhaps a historic moment – the Federal Government is not only talking about a turnaround in the trend, but Finance Minister Spindelegger is actually launching the turnaround, cast in hard figures of the budget! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Then he will soon become a martyr!]] The course of the Federal Government, marked by the handwriting of the Minister of Finance, goes in the direction of a sustainable zero deficit: 2016, you know it, is the targeted goal. This price will also reduce government debt from currently more than 79 percent to around 71 percent in 2018. With that – and so that we do not always make ourselves worse than we are – we are also heard internationally, ladies and gentlemen – Austria is thus compared to the European Union, also compared with the USA in terms of state debt not only better today, but also the dynamics, the change makes Austria a show-in state! However, this course of the Minister of Finance must be pursued consistently. Finally, it is also about our international credibility – I mentioned it earlier. This credibility is the prerequisite for the excellent rating of Austria. That was also remembered: The fact that we still have this rating today is also the result of the work of the Federal Government to lead Austria through and out of the economic crisis! But we will, and this is very important in the context of the budget, of course not rehabilitate the government budget by means of tax increases. The state must, and this may well be heard by some other political groups, the state must be slenderly saved! We need to get the expenditure side under control through reforms. What we want, therefore, is a real tax reform in this context, not a flicking plant with wealth taxes as an eye-catching. We want a comprehensive tax reform, which also deserves the name. The prerequisite for this is to set up reforms to actually implement substantial reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, also from the opposition, let us agree on one question: It is probably the key task of politics to make Austria one-fit and future-fit and to pass on our country to generations! The Minister of Finance is responsible for this with the budget of 2014 and 2015. Summary: How can we live up to this core task of making Austria fit for the future? – With a permanent, that is sustainable balanced budget, with a slim administration device and, of course, with a strong economy! This is also mentioned on the employer's day today. Ladies and gentlemen, this trend towards a balanced budget is therefore necessary and important so that we can achieve the structural zero deficit in 2016 and thereby keep Austria on a future course. Finally, an appeal to the blue-green coalition, I would like to say almost, so to the blue-green opposition: Work on a sustainable way for taxpayers, for the next generation! Bring yourself in constructively here! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8128	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8150	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! The Minister of Finance has named his budget speech “Trendwende für Österreich” yesterday. The right title would have been: “A fairytale hour for Austria”. The Minister of Finance believes that he has launched a trend change in government debt and deficit, that Austria is good in public debt compared with the US, for example, that entrepreneurs are relieved that important impulses are set for the site and so on. Minister for Finance, believe You really do all that you said yesterday? The fact is that: In the case of government debt, we have the sixth negative record in a row. The deficit explodes to 2.7 percent of GDP. Austria has seen the highest increase in labour costs among monetary union countries. Top managers are threatening to emigrate abroad. Net per capita income has stagnated for 24 years. We have the third highest tax and tax rate in the OECD. We have a record unemployment of over 400,000 people. Where do you see the trend change, Mr. Finanzminister? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A Trend Turnaround Can It can only be achieved through a proper structural and tax reform. The entry rate must be reduced to 25 percent. Progression levels are constantly adapting to inflation. The additional wage costs must also be reduced. We also need an urgent reform of the right to pay. A reform or harmonisation of payroll law would save state and companies a lot of money. Mr Vice-Chancellor, even the tax advisors have long called for such reforms, even if you do not seem to have registered them. Read the tax memorandum of the Chamber of Business Trustees, which was also sent to the BMF! Otherwise, you could not make statements like: We will not be happy with the simplification of wage accounting. - That's stupid! In conclusion: This double budget is a declaration of bankruptcy in figures by the Federal Government. It is not the hypo disaster that prevents the Federal Government from finally implementing structural reforms, but rather its own inability.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8207	The next item is Mrs Maurer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8228	Dear Seers! Mr President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government on the government bank! What has been presented in this budget yesterday is in reality the continuation and intensification of a game of mourning that we have been pursuing for many years. Science and research are yours! It speaks this budget very clearly. At the universities there is no more a single cent: Neither the €615 million inflation adjustment nor the study site financing, a total of €1.1 billion. No more cents for the universities! What will that mean? – The universities will have to drive savings programmes in the years 2016 to 2018. This is mainly due to the staff. This is mainly due to the young scientists. It's a burden on infrastructure. It is also at the expense of the students, the care conditions and so on. That's your program for the universities! Then we have the next point: 100 million € for basic research you present – and this is actually a three-thousand! – as additional resources, although it is de facto resources that were already available before, which are necessary to secure the FWF, the Science Fund, to secure the Academy of Sciences. [[Abg. Haubner: Did you hear Mrs. Novotny today?]] But you sit here and pretend to be the extra money, while the money is actually just frozen. It's even a real reduction, what's being rewritten. [[Abg. Haubner: Mrs. Novotny sees this differently!]] You don't even meet your own government programme at the technical colleges. While they are spending a little money to expand the places of study, the increase in funding rates announced in the government programme remains. The 2-percent target – 2 percent of GDP by 2020 for the tertiary sector, for higher education, for science and research – can be seen anyway! We currently stand at 4.3 billion of GDP for the tertiary sector. In 2018 we should be 8.3 billion, a doubling of the budget. This budget does not cover this increase! Minister Mitterlehner has set up the demand for €1.6 billion for the sector in the run-up to the last few months and has himself stressed that this is only for securing the status quo. Of these €1.6 billion, a fraction has just been left, and we don't know exactly – that's going to be clear in the next few weeks – what's hidden in this budget. One thing I can guarantee: We will take a very close look at this! There are cuts in discretionary expenditure; we will look very carefully where there is a saving. I can also tell you one thing – Mr Mitterlehner is not here now –: On this PR show, where you try to sell cuts as actual increases, we do not fall into it. We will continue to reveal this and will not let you get through with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8281	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8303	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The WIFO budget expert Schratzenstaller has said that the starting situation is difficult. Yeah, we know that here, too. However, it has also stressed that the offensive measures taken by the government are, in their opinion, the right ones. These are offensive measures which she has also put in the field of childcare, i.e. in the area of the family. To the family area. We discussed the family aid yesterday, and we do not need to do it again today. These €380 million for the extension of childcare facilities – we know that there is a law, a 15a agreement to be concluded with the countries, especially in preparation with the countries where these 350 million are to be made available. For this €350 million – and I would just like to mention this positively – Federal Minister Kurz has also promised us that he will provide €15 million for the promotion of language. And we still have 15 million from the old budget, which is still valid, for the 15a agreement up to and including 2014. That means we have a total of € 180 million for the expansion of childcare facilities! I'm convinced that's a good start. Family doesn't end with childcare, family continues. The quality of daily parents continues. The quality of education continues. We have heard again today that there should be no change in the expansion of all day schools, that it should be driven forward in order to achieve a better compatibility of family and profession. Social democracy is still a big point that we want to introduce the Papa month for everyone. In the area of youth, the Youth Strategy is to be more integrated. There should be a more flexible redesign – that is what we have written in the government programme – of student and apprentice free rides. These young people, if they have a good education, also want a job. It is an essential point that we, as social democrats, take care of the generation of internships, because it can and must not be that young people, the very are well-trained, pushed into a working situation in which they do not receive any money. These young people also want to start a family at a time, and family and especially reconciliation of work and family life is what we have said as social democrats, on which we place great importance in this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8351	Next, Mr. Dr. I'm talking about daughters. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8383	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To call the previous university policy and funding and research funding a “trailer game” is an immeasurable slender step. If you look at the increases in the scientific and research budget in recent years, they are always much higher than the usual increases! The universities benefit from a university billion during the current period of service agreement, which this government has also provided at a time when it had to link a savings and tax package at the same time. It's similar now. This budget is also, of course, under the sign of saving and the need to reduce the high debt level while at the same time investing in future areas. And this budget, even if it is in a reasonable framework, is also doing so. But the achievements that are being achieved here and that bring this budget to an end must not be bad and small. I'm starting with the FWF Research Fund. So far, this has been similarly high-funded – that is right – but the funding has so far been two-part. It was only a small part of a fixed and fixed predictable budget, the rest had to be created from reserves again and again. This is changing now, and thus the FWF can now plan with a fixed budget, which also means a slight increase compared to the previous annual budget. This is, of course, when you compare it with the ever-increasing, very good applications that press the authorisation rate, or also compare it with other countries, especially the rich Switzerland, still too little. But it is now budgetary security for many years, and this budget security means something above all: It means that many young people can expect to be employed in research areas. It means that we can secure jobs for many young researchers with this money for years to come. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The same applies to the Academy of Sciences, whose service agreement period does not run parallel to that of the universities, but which can also expect a plus in the next, starting in 2015, and can also guarantee the appointment of their scientists. The colleges are given significantly more places to study, which is in line with the government's programme. Of course, as in all these cases, the institutions concerned still want more. But it has been done to make it possible for this to be expanded, and the goal of 50,000 places of study in the colleges which are a success story is undoubtedly moving closer. It's still open, that's right, how it continues at the universities. However, it is not until the end of this year that the university law provides for a corresponding negotiation between the two competent ministers. I hope that at least this amount of 615 million will come out of the space, just like last time, as a bill of inflation and cost increases, so that there will be a perspective at universities that allows them to continue planning offensively. We owe all this to this state. We know that science and research are among the most important investments in the future. If we want to secure the future of this state, we must invest in these areas, because with this investment we invest in young, ambitious, talented and diligent people who are continuing research in this country. We are also obliged to do so because we have repeatedly decided on these increases in Councils of Ministers, and I am confident that they will be achieved. So I think that the chapter on research and science is passively illustrated in this budget, and I hope that this path will continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8443	Next, Mr Magistrate. Houses to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8464	Mr President. Minister and Secretary of State, but above all, ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday we have to listen here in the House, as ÖVP and SPÖ talk about a good day for Austria and that the opposition does not make any constructive proposals at all. [[Abg. Schwentner: If there are no proposals from the government!]] Dear colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP, please explain to me – I too am a family father – what is good about your budget if income from the wage tax rises from € 24.6 billion to € 27.3 billion from 2013 to 2015! This is a plus of €2.7 billion that you can pull out of the working population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Please explain to me: If sales tax revenues rise from 2013 to 2015 from € 24.9 billion to € 26.3 billion, a plus of € 1.4 billion, what is good for the population? Please explain this to me! This is an indirect tax. What's good? You're proud of your budget. Or if you say the banks are making €3 billion in the next few years. They all know exactly who is indirectly paying this levy again: the people, about fees, contributions, Spesen et cetera on the bank account. So that's another burden. And you sit here and talk about a good day for Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's stick to the comparison with the mountain. It is true, Austria has beautiful mountains, we are world tourist champions, undisputed, but one you have certainly achieved with this budget: That the ordinary citizen, who works honestly, can no longer climb these beautiful mountains, because you have so packed the backpack for the ordinary citizen with taxes and loads that these people can no longer climb the mountain. That's the disaster! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are talking about administrative reforms, child care facilities, full-day care and money you provide for them. Yes, that's right, money is made available. But the bureaucratic burden on the municipalities when implementing these initiatives you do not seem to know, otherwise you would not speak of debureaucratisation. There is a 16-page brochure for the country of Tyrol alone with rules on the implementation of the child care model. Ten of these 16 pages contain only provisions. It is not enough time to present all of this to you, but I would like to explain at least a few points here. Group room: Floor area per child 2.5 square meters plus 5 square meters for built-in/freestanding furniture. The room height must be 2.8 to 3 meters, the window surfaces must be at least 10 percent of the floor area. Let's go to sanitation: A personal toilet in barrier-free version with washbasin and ground floor shower with handbrush, two children's toilet cabins with doors that can be easily opened from the outside, two children's washbasins, child-friendly equipment. To the wardrobe: The wardrobe must be outside the group room. The bank length for 12 children must be at least 3.6 meters, and so on and so on. 10 pages regulations, 10 pages bureaucracy! And then you'll be surprised to see that you don't do anything at all in child care, all day care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They do not, therefore, bring anything else because you do not allow the local authorities to do good. If you have to implement these rules, it is God damn difficult to do good. In addition to this, the communities have to be financed, and we need to talk separately about the financing of this nonsense by the communities anyway. So leave with the bacon, and please relieve the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8526	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8547	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is more than significant that the representatives of the government parties and also the members of the government do not lose a word about actual savings. This shows exactly what we have consistently criticized since yesterday, namely a standstill budget that promises no future, but quite the contrary: one that clearly provides restrictions and savings. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, when you read the daily media, you will find great crises in the world: People who are starving, children who do not have access to education, people who do not have access to health systems. You will find families who are traumatized by military struggles, you will find the crises and military conflicts in the world, mostly in connection with resources, with raw materials. And at the same time, development cooperation will be drastically reduced over the next one and a half years. Development policy is, in fact, the core of a democracy that itself calls itself to be taken on board, or at least it should be. Like a company with the development policy and development cooperation shows how this society deals with people and human rights in principle. Austria is a special place in this respect. Nowhere else is the discrepancy between the positive social attitude towards development policy and the financial budget provided by the government as great as in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be that all organisations, all projects must be based solely on the private sector. It cannot be that all organisations and projects have to rely solely on donations. It's about saying: The Austrian State, or the Government, has also made an international agreement in its responsibility. In the face of hunger, poverty, natural disasters, violence and military struggles, it is our responsibility to provide clear financial resources so that the suffering can be eased so that the poorest of the poor can be helped. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would remind you of the government agreement that you have just decided recently, which makes it quite clear that development cooperation is an overall responsibility. I also recall that the “development and legal anchoring of a stage plan to increase EZA funds up to the 0.7% target” has been clearly decided here in this House. This is your government program, and it is your decision to implement it. But with these drastic cuts by 2015 this will never be possible. On the contrary, you will save projects, namely projects that mean education for children, for girls, projects that mean fighting violence against girls, you will save projects such as the polio vaccination for children, which is extremely important, that is, very basic, necessary things for a world community and thus for peace. Minister Ostermayer! As far as I know, you are, so to speak, the Government's counterpart towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thus also the SPÖ's responsible for development cooperation. If the S & D party actually stands for development cooperation, I expect any cuts in the development cooperation area to be abolished by the end of this process. [[Interference of Federal Minister Ostermayer.]] Although it is not Mr Ostermayer, but Mr Klug, it is about strengthening development cooperation quite clearly and placing it on its own legal feet.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8630	I call Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8651	Mr President. High house! Dear colleague Windbüchler-Soushill! You know, of course, that social democracy is struggling in a massive way to ensure that the funds for development aid are available and that these resources are never high enough for us. It is not right, however, to produce and act here as if Austria were to withdraw from all international obligations. That we are solely responsible for suffering and hunger in the world, I would like to reject it, namely on the basis of a very concrete example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Windbühler-Sushill]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last week I had the opportunity to visit the Sahraui refugee camps in Algeria. What we have experienced there in the positive gratitude of the Republic of Austria and various aid organizations was impressive! Austria does not support any project in these camps in the short term from populism, but has been investing for over 40 years in the school system, in the agricultural system, in the training of kindergartens, nurses and teachers. And we finance all our international contributions. I would ask you to articulate this part with self-confidence, because we can be proud of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in fact I would like to make a few comments on environmental policy. They all know the government programme in which the environmental objectives for the next five years have been formulated in great detail. It is about maintaining the quality of life, the quality of the environment at the high level we are used to in Austria. This goes from waste management to drinking water supply, nature conservation to noise and pollutants reduction. Just a comment on the speech by the Green-Klubob woman Glawischnig-Piesczek of this morning: A budget must also be able to read and understand, if you want to discuss honestly. We continue to invest €130 million annually in the two future budgets for climate and energy projects. 65 million € come from the Ministry of the Environment and 65 million € from the BMVIT. There are several thousand projects each year in the field of research and development, mobility, market opportunities and awareness-raising on climate-related issues. Look If you look at the program of the KLIEN, look at the map where each individual project was very detailed. I don't want to go into detail now, but remember something: A recent initiative of the Ministry of Transport is the conversion of taxi fleets into the cities to electric cars. Let's look at energy research: Austria has recently received the award. At an award in California, TU Graz won the first prize with its LISI-Haus. This was the first time that a non-American project for sustainable research and development in the USA was awarded. In addition, the thermal renovation will continue to be financed with €100 million annually. This not only creates savings in CO2 emissions, but also regional jobs, so that the economy in the region is promoted. In conclusion: We also confess to Austria's economic location. The Austrian economy, the Austrian industry must also see an ambitious climate policy as an economic opportunity. It is also about not falling into a dumping spiral, when you say that you must not continue to save on CO2 emissions, you should save in the area of salaries, perhaps you should also save in the field of social benefits. There must be no contradiction between offensive economic and industrial policies in Austria and Europe and ambitious climate policy. In this sense, I believe that the budget is sufficient funding to achieve the objectives agreed in the government programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8729	Next, Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8751	Mr President. Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretary! Culture costs, but culture costs much more. Therefore, I would like to explain the strategy of this Federal Government on the basis of the budget for art and culture. On the one hand, the art and culture budget was not reduced in the expenditure of discretion, because the initiatives, which are truly exemplary projects in the federal states, are also promoted in the alternative scene. There was an increase in the Federal Museums and the Bundestheaters by law – not just overcrowded, but an increase. At the same time, in addition to this careful distribution of existing money, reforms were launched. The Office of the Federal Museums was created in order to better achieve administrative efficiency in the sovereignty of the Federal Museums and the administration of the staff. In addition to the purely numerical work, the Federal Government has also brought us a budget accompanying law into the Hohe Haus – that is what we call it. There you can read about what happens to reforms or actual measures, accompanied by the decision-making of the budget. The Federal Government has clearly adopted an approach: On the one hand, the debt not to keep the deficit growing and on the other hand to invest wisely. And to invest wisely means in this case to have a view on growth and jobs, to see that full employment is raised. We do this in the cultural field, for example, with the film location law. [[Complementary of the Abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] This is not dealt with in the Ministry of Culture, but in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Film Location Act enshrines the future funding opportunities for the creative economy. [[New accompaniment of the abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] The creative economy has a multiplier effect on the labour market of 4.22. That is, every euro we invest there then includes a volume of €4.22. The cultural significance of Austrian productions or films filmed in Austria is undisputed internationally by a wealth of awards. Therefore, we should also force it economically. [[New accompaniment of the abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] And this is what happens here: Smart invests despite a very tight, caring budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8812	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8833	Mr President. Dear members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This federal government lacks the courage to reform. This federal government lacks the courage to take a self-confident stand against this EU. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is burdening only the hard-working people in our country. The cold progression eats up every wage increase. This federal government is not worthy of the liberals, the children, the families, because otherwise the family allowance would be increased by more than by this ludicrous amount. This federal government, ladies and gentlemen, is too little worth the many hard-working people, for otherwise the additional wage costs would not be that high. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government is also too little value for security in our country. A thousand more planning places with the police – only the money is still missing. That would be the same thing as if I were buying a car without wheels. I do not buy the wheels until 2016 when the trend change is coming, just as Mr Finanzminister mentioned. We are happy to give up on such promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8875	Mrs Mückstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8896	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The high tax rate is likely to include a second severely digestible toad – if I can try this image as a green one – that is the toad that will meet patients and health professionals in implementing the health reform. The health reform provides for a cost-damaging path of €3.4 billion by 2016. That's good. We support this, but – and this is seen in the Strategy Report – it is in no way a structural and administrative reform. The Court of Auditors' criticism is completely ignored in this respect. We continue to pay for 22 health insurance funds. The insured will all pay for it, but what you get depends on where you live. The opaque financial flows remain. If you want to plan new projects, you have to work hard to find out who is responsible for them at all. The competences are so fragmented that when the right hand does something, one often does not know what the left is doing. Then also the principle of unanimity with which you secure and protect your clients. It has agreed to try the smallest common denominator for reforms, thus calculating massive delays in the reform process. What's the result? – Hidden rationalizations will occur and will result in additional burdens affecting patients and health professionals. Just a short while to achieve these objectives: What has already amazed me and appalled me is that it will again focus on mental health without budgeting and without targets of effect. That is to say, a colorful, dazzling soap bubble without any effect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How do we make the health system possible for the future? – I mean, with a reasonable mix of savings and investment: save through a genuine, truly consistent structural and administrative reform and invest in the settled area, in the mentally ill people in mental health, in children and women, by providing for those people who cannot afford private health services. – I completely miss this perspective in this draft budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8942	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e8964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we would have to discuss a lot about development policy. We could discuss what Austria's priorities are when it comes to the post-2015 development agenda. We could discuss how Parliament can participate in this process, including the subsequent implementation process. We could discuss what positive effects migration might have on development cooperation. We could discuss the fight against poverty, gender equality, sexual self-determination, sustainable use of resources. But as almost always in Austrian development cooperation, we are discussing the budget, figures. Unfortunately, this is also necessary, because in fact the proposal we are presenting is not the one with which we can satisfy ourselves as a rich country. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Unfortunately!]] I think there really should be more inside. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I have been able to listen very, very often to developmental sub-committees of the past of ministers – for example, if we wanted a clear path to how our developmental budget should rise to 0.7 – that the government could not go ahead with this, because it was in Parliament, as the budget is. Yes, in fact, I do. In this sense, I think that we should really try to keep these design possibilities with us, and I will fight very much for us to make an amendment. I believe that it would be possible to fill this gap of 17 million we have in 2015 as a rich country, for example by resolving parts of the reserves of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which amount to 104 million, and at least stabilizing us in 2015 if not increased. A very large part of the Austrian development cooperation funds are not at all in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in the Ministry of Finance. We stay right there, we fulfil our international obligations. I think that is very encouraging and very, very important. At the same time, however, it also shows how important it is to have legal certainty of these obligations. We have this in the Ministry of Finance with the IFI contribution law, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we lack legal protection. I think it is true what the government programme says, namely that we also need a legal path for increasing bilateral development cooperation. Because then it is not so easy to cut down where it is structurally – namely, in the case of discretion expenditure – very simple – which is of course not very fine. We have the right instrument in the government programme. I hope there will be discussions and negotiations very soon on how such a legal path could look. As SPÖ, we are at least ready for conversations and are looking forward to them. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9006	The next speaker is Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9028	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words about the transport and infrastructure chapter. Infrastructure is one of the essential foundations for a good economic location and for the competitiveness of Austria. Smart Investment in Infrastructure From the economic point of view, there is no doubt that the expenditure for 2014 and 2015 is clearly more than €3 billion and is therefore also important and correct. Ecological, socially and economically sustainable infrastructure is intended to attract the economic location and guarantee as high mobility as possible of people and goods. Because one thing is clear: Economy does not take place without traffic. In 2014 and 2015, around one billion and 1.3 billion will be invested in the maintenance and expansion of the high-level road network. About 60 percent of this goes in new construction projects and 40 percent in construction conservation. However, this is made possible in particular by the contributions of drivers and the transport industry. The necessary extension of the rail infrastructure should not be rejected in the sense of sustainability. What efficient rail networks mean, for example, we now see on the attractive West Railway, where both a private company and the ÖBB are quite successful on the road. We are also aware that significant means of taxation still need to be used for the old loads of the ÖBB, and of course it is important to make the ÖBB sustainable future fit. One last thing in the short speaking time: High priority are projects on flood protection. Since – the heavy flood 2013 has shown that this is necessary – some projects are to be completed by 2019, such as the large Eferdinger Becken project. A total of more than € 560 million will be invested by the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities there by 2019. I think that's a good package and would be pleased about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9076	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9097	Mr President. Representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My colleague Gerald Hauser has previously asked the government how to summarize the 2014/2015 budget. As always, of course, there are no answers from the government. I can summarise it, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party can sum up: It is a pure disaster, a fairy tale hour, always the same forever. You could almost say: Every day the marmot greets, nothing new, always the same. We sometimes have the impression that some representatives just take the budget speech from two or three years ago, screw it around a little and then slide it down again. [[Abg. He's doing this!]] We can summarize: The Republic of Austria has record tax revenue. We have record debt, we have an educational chaos, which is further prolonged by this budget. The hope for the future research, innovation and technology will continue to be treated in depth, there is a standstill, and the economy is smoldering. One has to say this clearly: The economy is smearing more and more. You can ask your own President of the Chamber of Economics, Leitl, who meant a few days ago, Austria is dispossessing the economy. – This is nothing funny and will bring us further down in this downward spiral. Hard and decent service providers are asked to check out the cash register – I have already mentioned that we have record tax revenue. We have made the effort – that's natural a satire – to mess through the Google translation machine once, as you say, yesterday's budget speech by Vice Chancellor Spindelegger – and I want to bring it now: Spin-delegator: We have many mountains in Austria, but one is too much: the debt mountain. Translation: The writer to whom this occurred is as good as fired. Spin-delegator: That's why I have a goal: a trend change. Translation: We continue as before, the people are sleeping in front of the TV. Spin-delegator: In addition, a burden arises for our children and children. Translation: What's interested in me? I didn't put the Gschrappen in the world. Spin-delegator: Everyone needs to tighten the belt. Translation: Everyone needs to tighten the belt, except me, my party, the bank and lobby friends. Spin-delegator: However, it must also be invested in an offensive package. Translation: We continue to pump money into the mortgage to avoid annoying the creditors. After all, it's about a future post at Raika. I could continue this thing, I and the Freedom Party just say: Good night, our beautiful Austria, at this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9157	Mrs Mag. Jarmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9179	Mr National Council President! High house! Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! On the subject of budget, I really have to say that the budget is not transparent. And that's not funny anymore. What do I mean by that? – It used to be the case that the Social Ministry was responsible for disability policy. At the time, however, people with disabilities should not live equally as people with no disabilities, but it was the principle of caring. Thanks to the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities, the situation has changed, dear colleagues. Now the individual departments are also responsible for budget planning in the disabled. In particular, I mean the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for the accessible buildings in the school sector, for the inclusion in the education sector, where personal assistants also accompany the children in the school building. It is about sign language interpreters who interpret in class. The science sector is also being solved in this way thanks to the UN Convention. The aim is for disabled people to have an equal life. However, budgeting in the resorts is not transparent. It is not clear how much the respective departments get for the implementation of the NAP. This information is not available. Where are the exact numbers? - I don't find them! You know. Yes, the then Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Fekter, has found that there is no fresh money available for NAP implementation and implementation. This means that each ministry must rework the existing money in such a way that the implementation of certain points is possible. What does that mean for disability policy? There is a nice model in Sweden that has recently been reformed. There are, for example, priorities for women's policy, for education and also for disability policy. There is clear transparency in this way, how much money is available for the respective area – and for these there is also a person who coordinates and plans this budget. Finally, I would like to say that I expect from the government, from the government parties, that there is clear transparency in the budget. It is simply too little to mention that you are interested in the reforms. I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9227	Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9248	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that some young people are also involved in the gallery today, because you have been discussed several times during today's debate by different political groups. It is above all about the future of young people, and we will lay a foundation for this with this budget. But what has given me very much to think personally today was a few words which we have heard throughout all the political groups, namely: Older people do not want to get to the burden of the young, we need to become “one - footed. ” There were terms like “debt backpack. ” But I believe that this generation conflict, as it has been conspired today, is really wrong in this form. In all the confessions of sparingness, we do not pretend to have brought us just the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s! Older people, their own grandmother, don't care if the grandson has a good job, has an apartment he can afford, and has a good education. And let's not pretend it's better for the granddaughter if her own grandma has less pension and the grandma's worse! Generational justice means, first of all, commonness and co-unity. Please don't play out the generations against each other, because it's always about being together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our Republic's main engines for the future include investment in research, technology and innovation. However, it is not only about thousands of jobs, but also about future prospects, especially for young people, about prosperity for the Republic of Austria, it is also about responding to key challenges of the future, from climate change to issues of an ageing society. It is therefore very important, especially in times of tight budgets, to continue to invest in these future areas. In any case, there are no cuts in the funding for applied research, but we have even planned increases, compared to the year 2013. For the research, development and market launch of new technologies, there will be €424 million in 2014 and even €429.2 million in 2015. This is a significant increase compared to 2013, as it was still € 406.2 million. With all these investments we can secure and create up to 20 000 new jobs in Austria. This is so important because it is also a core area for the Republic of Austria and, of course, for the Federal Government. And yes, the budgetary situation at the Austrian universities is not a simple one – I clearly recognise that – but that is why we have planned numerous measures in the government programme. There will continue to be offensive means in the future, and the arguments of the Greens, as we have heard them today, simply do not vote. There are no cuts in the research and knowledge budget, which just don't exist! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] On the contrary: There is for the first time a security for basic research of € 300 million. But I'm saying that's a first step, it's got to be more, I'm quite clear about that. But please don't worry! There are no cuts in the scientific and research budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9303	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9324	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! High house! All budget debates in recent years have a similar dramaturgy: The Federal Government is presenting a draft budget, and the opposition is damning this and all the other budget drafts. – ‘Some procedure as every year’. In fact, the opposition acts as if the budget were a sorcerer – you heard it today –: You take a prince of Sweden, you give it to the sorcerer, you take a spoon of Finland, you take a little from the United States, and you're done with the budgetary sorcerer for Austria. The only fact is that there is only the magic potion in the fairy tale and that reality looks completely different. In addition to disputes, we must put the budget, the government budget, on healthy legs. There is no alternative – now, in the past and also in the future. And the fact is that the renovation of the Austrian government budget has been under way for years. Already in the past legislative period, the then Federal Government has felt determined and committed to taking the path of rehabilitation and also to submitting reforms. We have always been disabled in these efforts – at the time as well as today. If it has been the international financial and economic crisis in the past period, this time the hypo that makes this path difficult. And yet – still! – Austria is better off compared to many other European countries, in particular, as a result of the employment of people, which leads to low unemployment, a better economic situation and also new debt. This is not supposed to be a good speech, but the objective figures speak a clear, clear language. This does not mean that one rests on any laurels that are not present, but that one continues these reforms, which are not pleasant. I was the Federal Minister myself, and you can believe me, it's not hetz to make savings packages and explain to people when it gets less. [[Abg. New builder: We can believe that!]] But we have done so on account of responsibility in the past period, and that will continue now. The reforms that have been launched are beginning to take place – pension reform, health reform, administrative reform and also care money reform – only to remain consistent. And I can remember one thing: The large savings package of the €27 billion is also beginning to work. We now need to support the Federal Government so that it can succeed and because the attempt is being made to save on the one hand, to make second reforms, and thirdly, to invest very well. About €3.5 billion is estimated to be invested in offensive measures. Family support has been mentioned, but there is also more money for research, more money in the economy and also in agriculture, in rural areas – regional support. After all, the new financial period of the European Union is available, and this money has to be triggered. We have always triggered this very well not only in the agricultural sector, but also in the economic sector, in order to give impetus to the regions. We must continue to do this, then we will also be able to make a tax reform which is certainly desirable, but which only makes sense if we can afford it, if we are to relieve people honestly and thus not create new problems. In this sense: Support for this path! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9361	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9382	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Vorsprecher Berlakovich, so if you say that the opposition to each budget always stands out here with the same arguments and argues against the proposals of the Federal Government, I must say to you: Not with every minister, but with you it was really so, because you have been a Federal Minister who would not have done anything in any area. [[Call the ÖVP:Na hello!]] [[Abg. Fekter: What are you talking about?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You have not caused anything in climate policy, nor have you done something in environmental policy, and you have driven away in agriculture or the last farmers. – So this really applies to you, and that’s why you sit You are now also where you belong: in the honorable series of the National Council and no longer on top of the Government Bank. – I thank the current Federal Government for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: The same procedure as every year! Except for polemics, you don't mind!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] But to return to an environmental theme that is really at our heart. [[Abg. Fekter:... brought away?]] – Mrs Minister, you are part of the second place behind Mr Berlakovich’s regime, which is not a question either. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have to consult the environment, among other things. Perhaps Mr. Berlakovich remembers what happened on 12 May. It was in this country on 1 December 2000 that: It was signed the Milker Protocol. This Milk Protocol should be a contractual agreement between the Czech Republic and Austria on nuclear power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - Take care of yourself, colleague. You earn your money very easily: You will report here once a year. You should actually get pretty red when you go to the bank on the 15th, because more often you don't work in here. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] From behind, you can, otherwise you do not make a significant contribution to this House, Mr Rädler. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But to get back to the Milker protocol: Ladies and gentlemen! Several groups of the nuclear movement did not approve of this protocol. There were already numerous opinions two days later that it was found that this Protocol was not a international treaty and that only Temelín was taken into account in the Czech Republic, but for example the Dukovany nuclear power plant was not mentioned in any case. [[Call to the ÖVP:We are at the budget debate!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now we have heard a few days ago that this is exactly what is happening to us today, namely that we as the Republic of Austria have no influence on what is happening in the Czech Republic. For example, I myself have participated in five EIAs. [[Abg. Rädler: And no one has been successful!]] The Republic of the Czech Republic has put all these opinions into the round table and has not taken note of either the Republic of Austria or the countries of Upper Austria, Vienna or Lower Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] All these opinions were simply ignored contrary to the relevant EU Directive. [[Abg. Rädler: And what did you do there?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now have the information that a fifth nuclear reactor is to be built in Dukovany, and even there we have no means of influence. From this point of view, I would therefore like to ask the very committed environmental minister, who is really going to start negotiations in the form of the Melker agreement of that time. I am looking for him in every form, all the countries that are surrounded by Austria and equipped with a nuclear power plant, to invite here in Vienna to an appropriate conference. The aim of this conference must be to get out of nuclear power, to withdraw from the EURATOM Treaty, and to take action at European level against the recognition of nuclear power in parallel to an analogue form of energy. We can't recognize this. In this sense, once again, the call for an action here at last to convene a conference in Vienna and, as a result of this House, to present a contract of international law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9554	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9575	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I guess you always listen to me. Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and at the top of the gallery! I pick it up again with the speaking time limit of 3 minutes and brought you viewing material because I am a visual type. In the end, the hypo crisis that cost Hypo-Desaster 10 to 12 billion € is represented by this pillar. [[the speaker places a kitchen role on the speaker's desk]] The Minister of Finance did not tire of pointing out yesterday that it was the arsonists in Carinthia who left us this debt mountain, and that there are now two things that have been said. He said that we have to distribute the necessary burdens justly and we have to save well and invest properly. What does social democracy now understand and what does the Christian-social ÖVP mean by “distributing the last just” and “rightly investing”? – In any case, one: Finger away from the super-rich, and super-high entry tax rates for the earners of small incomes. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Jewellery: Who is this?]] You can understand this as “Distributing Last Justly. ” And the second: “Investment” means building motorways and highways and investing in mega-rail tunnels for you. And that's what I want to demonstrate now. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the documents you have submitted to us, you can see that the government's acceptance of liability, that is, the debt we all have to face, will explode by 40 percent at ASFINAG by 2018 to € 13 billion. And what's going to do with it? – Construction of the West Ring, S 8, S 34 in Lower Austria, A 5 in Lower Austria and the Lobau Tunnel. – These are your recipes for the future. And then the ÖBB made a super-balance sheet press conference and said: We have so many passengers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] – Beautiful, but where do these many passengers come from? These have been achieved by strengthening regional traffic. But the ÖBB invests mainly in mega tunnels, where tunnel drilling machines work and not people! And what is the consequence? The liability framework, for which we all have to stand straight, explodes at the ÖBB to €23 billion. 23 and 13, ladies and gentlemen, is 36. [[The speaker is made up of three kitchen rolls, a pillar next to the first kitchen roll.]] – So, and all of Austria looks at this pillar, namely the hypo disaster, and this liability framework and these debts of 36 billion – thanks to your construction projects – that are hidden. [[pointing to the individual kitchen roll]] [[pointing to the column of three kitchen rolls]] I would like to ask you – you have intelligent people in your ranks on both sides – that you accept this topic, that we cut down this huge pillar and transform money from this pillar into what makes Austria really sustainable: well-educated children and young people. [[pointing to the column of three kitchen rolls]] That's why I'm looking for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9649	Mrs Mag. Worm is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9670	Mr President. Dear colleague Georg Willi! The first measure that would be taken to make Tyrol more viable would be, for example, that in the state government you could finally decide on the Luft-Hunderter, because then we could breathe better again and not have so many allergies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Willi: (in the direction of ÖVP pointing) Platter!]] But now to a budget that had to be created under difficult conditions. On the one hand, the crisis since 2008, the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s, continues to have its consequences, on the other hand, there is the severe heritage left by the head of state Haider in relation to this hypo disaster that we now have to work on. Nevertheless, this budget has succeeded in providing essential offensive measures to set accents – accents for our employees: for those who are over 50 years old, so that they have the opportunity to stay on the labour market or, if they have lost their jobs, to get a job again. Because it's easy to say: We raise the retirement age, and the people who should work longer will no longer find a job. This is why investing is a very important and deeply human, human matter. And that half of the funds to be invested are reserved for women, for women in our country, this is a very important and necessary measure for women over 50 who often have very difficult times when they go to the labour market and look for a job that is also reasonably paid. Another very important emphasis, set in this budget, is the expansion of child care, child training facilities. And that we will continue to invest here – a lot will be invested! – this is a very important measure for families with children. It was also stressed again and again in the speech of the Minister of Finance that the children are the future of our country. First of all, the courage of the child is promoted and, on the other hand, the desire of the families to unite work and family. For this, these kindergarten, childcare millions are very, very well used and an important measure for the young fathers and mothers in our country. The fact that the women's budget has remained the same, even this is a small, fine item in this budget, is an important sign, an important signal for all the measures to be put in place there and which will then be resettled due to the budget proposal. That too is an important sign. Future investment is also available in basic research. In addition, flood protection, expansion in this area is very important. I can still remember this devastating flood in Kössen, and how important it was that floods were helped in solidarity – be it in Tyrol or in Lower Austria, where accidents always happen. – This is an important investment for people in our country. Health reforms, dental clamps and so on have been addressed here today. The HPV vaccination is also mentioned, just as the breast cancer early detection and, and, and. So there were accents here, and in this sense to create a budget in difficult times, that was a remarkable achievement.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9718	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9739	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors and dear spectators in front of the screens! I welcome you very warmly today on the employer's day and at the beginning allow me to say the following: Much has been said today; we can only distribute what we can achieve. And thanks to all employers – with their employees celebrating their day of work tomorrow – together with the expectation that we can create and accomplish what we have created and done in the past. We need the framework conditions so that we can do so in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I would like to say to my previous speakers: There are words that are essential, and there are words that are deep. These last statements of the Freedom Party were deep and indispensable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would actually like to comment on the budget and on the expenditure on education or on what has been budgeted on education. There will be around €8 billion in education for the 2014/2015 periods. This includes offensive measures of €400 million by 2018 for the expansion of school day care, especially in the agglomerations. And I also charge the €350 million for the extension of childcare, because all of this benefits our children. But money will never be there enough, and therefore, of course, the criticism always goes in the direction that in the field of education must not be saved – almost a matter of course. These are so-called nickel statements, where everyone lowers the head: Yes, education must never be saved! But money will never be enough, because the more available, the more you need to consume and spend that money. However, now is the time to save and to take back, so we just have to ask ourselves how efficiently we use these €8 billion. That is, it is to be questioned whether we have an optimal cost-benefit ratio, whether we get enough output from the input. There are, of course, a lot of things to do, and some of what you will have to do here in the next time. We need an improved transition from kindergarten to school so that, in the course of the course, the public school can do what it is supposed to do, namely that children can read, write and count, so that they can be able to take action, whatever training and training they want to do. In order to do this, we need additional measures for children of remote layers. We need a focus in teaching on core competences, and we need, above all, the adaptation of the curriculum and also the questioning of teaching methods and the introduction of new teaching methods. However, we also need a better education orientation in secondary education. Additional experts should be added to this task. First of all, we must resolve the legal obstacles that exist, which make it difficult to cooperate between schools and businesses. For it can never be early enough that children will be allowed to look into businesses, that children will be able to actually get to know the working world, so that they will not only be able to account for what profession they would be well suited for, where they will find their best inclinations to develop it, but they must also have the opportunity and opportunity to look at it: What does it actually look like in the profession I want to take? This, ladies and gentlemen, and much more will be the task of implementing and implementing our expenditure in the field of education in accordance with school needs. That's what I'm inviting you all to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9806	Mrs Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9829	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Jank, I've got it. Your remarks previously correctly understood that you thought the statements of the FPÖ were deep and indispensable? [[Yes, and congratulation with the ÖVP.]] Dear Madame, I would like to greet you very warmly as someone who doesn't like freedom of expression at all, and I really wouldn't have expected that at your party! Shame for this statement! Shame for your attitude! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The debt level is at the historical peak. Unfortunately, you have to leave this sentence that way. The Minister of Finance is also the one who is very likely to be able to do this, because he says that we must tighten the belt. Does he really think we can use this tighter belt to save away the debts? I think that with a party that feels that it is a representative of the economy, it must be said: Isn't there economic illiteracy? – with this word being interpreted positively and negatively. You could start a trend change. “Alpha” is the first letter in the Greek alphabet, and it’s called – that’s what I’ve chosen – spirit, beginning, highest, best. That means that would be the positive. “An” is, however, the root of the word of Anti. That is, you can still decide no matter how you want to shape the future of the population. Unfortunately, since my time has already run out, as I had to criticize, I just want to say one thing: If you say that the opposition parties do not bring in any reforms, this is really a totally bad argument, and you know that it is also wrong. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a typical example!]] I would like to give you four more suggestions: Look at Sweden to see how pensions are secured there! [[Abg. Auer: How many unemployed are there in Sweden? What is the level of youth unemployment in Sweden?]] Look at Germany, how government expenditure is cut there! Look at New Zealand as the subsidies are deleted there, Mr Cot. And look into Switzerland, how federalism is handled! – These are topics you should work on, and you still have a lot to work on!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9905	Mrs Mag. Brunner is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9927	Mr President. Dear Lady and Lord on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! Of course, I would like to comment specifically on the environmental budget, but first of all I would like to make a few general comments. I think all of us here are clear that we must take savings projects into account in these budgets. In spite of all of this, however, the budget is the main policy change that will be made over the next few years, and I am firmly convinced that it is our task as this generation of politicians to set a course for the future of our system, for the future of society and for society to change as well, in such a way that companies can continue to operate in the future that they have sufficient resources to transform society in such a way that children are well equipped, in terms of education for their profession and for life, and also to redesign that we can all live in an environment that does not make us sick. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, in this budget, I do not see any sparks in this direction, and it would be clear that we should invest in environmental technologies, environmental protection, especially as a country like Austria, in order to meet all these requirements and to be able to perform a model function in this restructuring of society. However, the environmental budget is cut, from almost €800 million to € 640 million and € 620 million respectively. It reduces domestic environmental support, an instrument that works very well, which finances environmental projects, but which is not only important from an environmental point of view, but also ensures jobs and has massive value added effects. These cuts are used to buy that, as has been said, not only the environmental situation is worsened, but there are also 7 000 jobs less. That's what this government is buying. It also fails to provide revenue of over €200 million for the Ministry of Finance, which comes back to environmental support. I wonder why looking at the budget situation. The thermal rehabilitation is shortened, the climate fund is reduced as an important climate protection instrument. There, €65 million is spent less. But it is not just about these individual measures, but if you look more closely at the environmental budget, then there is not only a little shortening, but then we see that we actually have revenue for the first time, namely from the emissions trading that companies have to pay for certificates. These are revenues of over €200 million a year, and they are simply sucked through the environmental budget, directly into the hypo hole. This €200 million now uses the public hand less, and that is exactly the wrong direction. These €200 million would have to be invested in additional climate protection measures to bring Austria back to the right path. That's why: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9976	Mr Spindelberger is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e9998	If I have the opportunity to talk about the Health chapter today, I would like to make the same point that, despite a more than close budget path, it has succeeded not to save on health, which is the result of the benefits. If the colleague Winter just said that the debt is on a historic high level, I say yes. – But then you also say that this is due to the disaster that the FPÖ has broken in Carinthia! That's why the debt level has also increased by dramatic €17 billion! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: You have signed the liability! Don't forget that!]] That is why I welcome the way of the Federal Government, which is able to go along with these budgetary approaches. I welcome these reforms, because reforming means improving. In the field of health, we have many improvements that go hand in hand with: From free midwives advice, free HPV vaccination, free gears to a planned health reform, which will, among other things, ensure better medical care for all insured persons in Austria. An essential part of this reform is also the introduction of the ELGA electronic health act, which will enable it to improve treatment safety in the future and thus also improve patient safety. Now it is important to live up to these reforms, and in this context I am already asking myself, as a health politician, the question of the questionable role of the officials of the medical chambers in Austria; for first they negotiate with the federal government for months on the topics of health reform or the breast cancer early detection programme, with the countries, with the social security institutions, and hardly is the signature of all negotiators on the paper, the doctors' chamber officials start to torpedo their own negotiating results and to insure patients with the spread of untruths. They are already trying before these reforms begin to bring them down again. [[Abg. Darmann: There will be joy to hear that when the SPÖ doctors fall in the back!]] Such a procedure can and will not be accepted, because we do not need blockers, but we need partners who are left and who are also willing to make agreements for the benefit of the patients of implementation. [[Abg. Darmann: The doctors will already know what is better for the patients! Incredible!]] If someone does not want to go this way, then he or she should say it, then he or she should simply return the contract with social security! But apart from these processes that cannot be justified, I am proud that, despite the hypo-deaster caused by FPÖ, a trend change will be made budgetaryly, which will ensure a balanced budget in 2016 and will also bring huge improvements in health performance. [[Interlocutory calls by Walter Rosenkranz and Darmann]] You talk about the FPÖ, talk about things you have an idea of, and therefore be silent!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10101	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10123	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today it has been said several times, referring to a quote from this New Year’s Eve classic “Dinner for One”: The same procedure as every year! The interesting thing is – we have just discussed this – that we have been saying for many years that we want to start the process of the budget debate together once, in order, for example, to bring a little more structure into this debate. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: Bravo!]] It is, I think, relatively difficult to understand even for the spectators that we are almost getting a herb-and-rove debate, because there is a word message for education, then a word message on environmental protection follows, then, as now with me, comes a word message on internal security. We should ask each other seriously and really try to start a new procedure. Of course, the debate – and this is quite similar to the last few years – shows that the opposition in its criticism does not agree with God, for what they think is good, the other opposition party again considers bad and vice versa. [[Interlocutors Steinbichler and Walter Rosenkranz.]] Mr Steinbichler, because you refer to the Federal Government: That's right. Each party would, of course, set different priorities in the budget, but, of course, in contrast to the opposition, the government parties are obliged to agree on a budget and then to represent it together. There are, of course, points that I have in my personal balance sheet on the soll side, where I believe that this is not yet fulfilled to the extent that it should be fulfilled, for example when we focus on the location. Of course, we all want the taxes to be reduced, the tax burden to be reduced – of course. Of course, we want additional wage costs not to push us down and achieve a stronger employment effect. But at the end of the day, you just have to see that the budget fits as a whole. There are also a number of things on the Heb-side that secure our country. This is the great and high social peace that we have in the country, which is quite a massive asset to our country. This is the social security which is a massive advantage, also a site advantage of our country. Even if you talk to international entrepreneurs here, not only do you see this critically, but it has proven itself to be the headquarters policy in recent years, and Austria is a very popular and especially popular location, not only for international organisations, but also for international companies, because there is a very special quality of life here in the country. A crucial point for this high quality of life, which we have in the country, is also the internal security that we guarantee in the country – with all the criticism that needs to be taken seriously, of course. But if the Federal Minister for the Interior has articulated as a declared goal, she wants to make Austria the safest country in the world, I say: Mrs. Federal Minister, there we are on a really good path, and you are congratulated by the fact that it has succeeded in including 1,000 additional police officers in this period. - I congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kunasek: 300 for the Styria!]] Of course, the opposition says she'd rather have 5,000 policemen. So there's still room for another opposition party to say she'd like 10,000 police officers. [[Call at the ÖVP: For the Greens not at all!]] But you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have ensured that there will be more 1,000 police officers, and that is good for internal security.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10201	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10222	Mr President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Very short to Werner Amon: Yeah, we haven't got these 1,000 police officers yet. There's a call first, then there's a training. We have the planning sites now. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner.]] And don't forget one: Plans aren't cops yet! But it is a right, good approach, but it could be more than anything else, we do not need to discuss it, I think. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yesterday we heard very, very much about saving, time and again saving, saving, saving. Above all, this is very much taken into the mouth of the ÖVP. But when you're honest: The right thing to do about saving, is that what you're doing? – Yes, Mrs Finanzminister out of office, you have a very, very nice voice, I hear you very well, but sign up to speak, then you can also talk! – Very good, then talk again; [[Abg. Fekter: The ÖVP is talking about investment, job creation!]] [[Abg. Fekter: I also talked! Didn't you look after me?- Oh, my God!]] You can also talk a second time if you have something to say! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] However, we still afford 22 social security funds here in Austria. If you want to save here, Mr Schönegger, you can do this once. Why do we need 22 social insurance companies, 9 local health telephones, 6 occupational health telephones? Why do you need that? There you could save in the administration – the Court of Auditors says that. Why do we afford a SIVBEG for barracks sales if we have the BIG at the same time? So you could do a lot of things. Look If you look at the Court of Auditors reports of recent years, you will find enough where You could save and where you can contribute something positive for this Republic! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] Mrs. Federal Minister – because you have also spoken in the background, Mrs. Innenminister – in the last few days it has been announced that you want to return the police stop for Schubhaft Hernals belt to justice. There you can say that was originally heard by the judicial system, that was the former criminal court in Vienna. They say that there is no need for this prison in this sense for 66 sheriffs. Since we have not been able for years to carry out reforms at the Juvenile Penalty, this Federal Government says that we urgently need a prison home for young people in Vienna. To do this, we have to say that today Vienna has 31 male and 4 female juvenile prisoners. In the time when every euro, four times, five times, is to be turned around in this republic, one wants to pay one's own prisoner's home for 35 prisoners. That's what you're talking about. And that's what you're talking about saving?- Oh, my God! They throw the money out to the window with both hands – that's it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They or this federal government are doing things that the citizen can't afford for a long time. You don't need to talk about saving anymore. It looks like you ate cream. The spappell shows no effect when discussing the construction of a prisoner house for 35 young people in Vienna for expensive tax money. But there is nothing too expensive for the ÖVP or the Federal Government, there is a burden that simply throws out money with both hands. This is certainly not economical, useful and economical. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10321	Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10342	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as well as other colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, you are attending our debate! A great deal has already been criticised for this budget, and much is right. I would also like to say something positive: This is based on the SPÖ/ÖVP Government Convention, because there you have made notices on several areas. The theory is that, for example, you have been in the field of social diversity in the government programme, I quote: “Social diversity is an opportunity to take advantage of Austria. The aim is to avoid, or to avoid, deficits in living together. to be removed in order to “be able to make better use of the potential of people with migration backgrounds in the interests of all concerned” (in the interests of society as a whole). - Quote. That's the theory. The practice delivered to you yesterday with the Federal estimates 2014 and 2015. In fact, practice looks like these beautiful words and all the concrete and less concrete integration and equal opportunities measures you have included in the government programme, which until yesterday have been subject to a reservation of funding, are more or less dead. This can be demonstrated by very specific figures. This is not a symbolic criticism on the part of the opposition, but it is about the almost unbridgeable difference in this case between your theory, between your announcements and the practice. In the Federal Estimate 2013 the integration budget provided €29.2 million, and in the Federal Estimate 2014 these 29 million will be reduced to 20 million. A reduction of 9 million, which is almost one third of the entire integration budget, which was not enough at all, in a policy that has been asleep for 40 years, to put in place equal opportunities measures, equal opportunities measures, measures to co-operate and non-connected. In such a policy, where one has slept for 40 years, mainly SPÖ and ÖVP, you now minimize once again the poor integration budget, so that, as you have announced, all of the potentials of people living in Austria could benefit “in the interest of all”, again a quote of SPÖ and ÖVP. The integration budget is almost reduced by a third. And I can't and I don't want to spare you the criticism: With this budget you do not make an integration policy, but you continue to waste the potential of many, many people who have lived in Austria for years, even decades. So, please, don't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10403	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10424	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Amon, who unfortunately is no longer here. We have been discussing this for a number of years now that the budget debate could be much more exciting for us here in the house and for the audiences in front of the television sets, we would better structure them and make them according to individual topics, which would be a more interesting discussion for us and also more comprehensible. Maybe we'll do this in the next few years. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would now like to deal with the field of science and research. In the present budget, it has been possible to avoid the almost already-depreciated nod in the science budget, even, quite the contrary, providing additional resources. For example, if we look at the field of research, Look at the field of basic research, then we see that this feared nod could be averted. On the contrary: It has even succeeded in providing additional resources for the next few years. 300 additional millions will be provided for the years 2016 to 2018, which is, of course, particularly important for the research sector, including the fundamental research field, because if we talk about research and equipment of research, we are not only talking about important jobs, but also important because these additional resources could also be used to turn away that, as announced or feared, the Academy of Sciences must cancel 150 people at the beginning of May, we are not only talking about important research jobs now, but also about the jobs of the future due to the development that is taking place in these research areas. The universities have provided funding for the current period of benefit by 2015. I can recall: an additional €250 million per year. Negotiations with universities will begin at the end of this year for the next service agreement period. The corresponding funds are already planned. Especially important to us – we will also pay particular attention to this – is that, within the scope of the possibilities, there is an improvement in the care conditions. Improvement by increasing the number of teachers, not by reducing the number of students to improve the study conditions accordingly. A third point, which I would like to highlight and which, in our view, is particularly important, is that this budget sets the course for further expansion of technical universities. We have also set 10 000 places in the government programme over the entire period, and this budget also sets the appropriate course for this very important area in the tertiary sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10469	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10491	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! How are older people doing with this budget? A very central question. Personally, the statement of our Minister of Finance has touched me very much. He meant that young and old should not be played against each other, just as important as our children are the grandparents. That's what Spindelegger says. - Yes, we're happy to be seniors. How does this turn out to be in the budget? – Care: People who need care will also get them. For care and 24-hour care there are more means, 311 million € in addition to this legislative period. This also shows how this government deals with older people. Equally important is the reform of care funds. The inflated administration has already slendered. Instead of 303 jobs that have previously paid out care money, this is currently only seven. Pure red tape! We seniors also want to know how our pensions continue. – Pensions remain safe. What has already come out of the opposition today! You want to change the whole system, a proven system. According to all these new proposals, today's boys, who will later have a pension, would have a much lower pension than this That would be the case today. We reject that. No players and no doctors at our proven pension system! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A number of reforms are already included in this budget. As you know, the corridor board was reformed. There is no longer the hackler board in the original form. There is no longer the invalidity pension for under 50 years old. So there's already a lot, very much happening. Our credo is to activate people instead of retiring. And for that we need jobs, jobs and again jobs. The budget also targets: an offensive for the labour market. Who wants to be part of the old iron at 50? - No one. There's a very special program for those over 50 years old. € 370 million in addition, which will be pumped into the labour market for older workers over the next three years, i.e. smart investment. This benefits every individual who benefits from the system and that also keeps our economy fit. Conclusion: We older people can live very well with this budget. And whatever we've always been concerned about, we don't want to leave our children and our grandchildren any bigger debt backpack. Therefore: Debt reduction, debt reduction, there we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10551	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10572	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! There is no national Council meeting in which there are no words of praise from one party or another for the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree that the Court of Auditors is an important support for us in the National Council. In recent times, the Court of Auditors has been overshadowed with more work. Control efforts are increasing only: budgeting remains the same. Today's draft budget looks the same again. The Court of Auditors is currently only able to provide its services by resorting to reserves. And there's a very clear statement from President Moser that these reserves are going to end, and he has also scheduled them, that's only one, two years. What happens then? – Then the following will happen: The quality of the tests will remain the same, only: the number of tests will decrease. Ladies and gentlemen will be looking forward to this on the Government Bank, but this cannot be right for us Members at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore call for a more detailed review of Division 6 and for it to be adapted as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10612	I call Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10639	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators in front of the TV sets, in front of the Internet! I brought along the documents on the budget we are discussing. You can also access all of this on the Internet, where I looked at it in pdf form. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we got the documents here in the house. I'll show you these in order to make it transparent, too. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since then, there have been permanent national Council meetings. So pure to the process, to parliamentary transparency: Those who comment on the budget in detail today have either weakened the meeting yesterday or have not read the documents. We will, of course, discuss this in detail next week in the Committee on Budgets. That was also the idea, and so is the parliamentary procedure. Yeah, we've heard some mischievous thoughts here today that I'd like to correct from my point of view. The one big mistake in thinking between red and black is that you confuse stability with standstill. Like a big tanker – I don't want to say Titanic now, that would be polemic, no – like a big rusty tanker you drive ahead. And yes, it makes the appearance of stability if you don't change it. We still have the right to make some reforms. That's a big misunderstanding. We have another misunderstanding. Many of you here in the hall believe that saving itself is a value. This is not the approach of our Greens. Saving per se is not a value for itself, but it's always about what we use the money for, what we invest where you invest anticyclically, what we borrow loans for. I also find it quite sad, I have to say honestly in the direction of Team Stronach and direction NEOS that you are just coming as a symbol with the toothpaste, colleague Strolz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mlinar.]] There are certainly better symbols for the greedy state than the toothbands, please. I would also like to give that to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And because the Stronach team is here today talking about the entrepreneurs who then wander somewhere else: Yes, have fun having lower pay costs in Bangladesh and Ethiopia. They will not be happy with this because we also need money for kindergartens, schools, even our education system. I wanted to give it to you, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietrich.]] If you're all the time talking about the slim state, slim state, slim state, I have to say, The heightening of slim is slimmer and then a skeleton, we have to pay attention to that too. So we can also exaggerate it, and then nothing good comes out of it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The green approach is, and we are known to be the party that stands for performance – inheriting is no achievement, dear ÖVP, inheriting is no achievement! – namely: The Greens see the approach of performance in a modern tax system where there can be inheritance taxes at the level as in the United States, no higher, and with high allowances, no question. Our green approach is to engage in bureaucracy. In order to make this understandable, I have again printed to you all the income tax declaration, VAT declaration, supplement to the income tax declaration for individual entrepreneurs and so on. [[The speaker referred to the written documents.]] One of the basic problems of the Austrians sitting in front of the TV today is that most of them – including most here in the hall – are unable to complete the form independently. I too need a tax advisor, a tax advisor. This is part of the problem that we urgently need to address. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You haven't understood this with FinanzOnline yet! The Secretary of State will help you!]] We must enable people themselves to understand the tax system, also in the sense of transparency, also in the sense of justice, also in the sense of costs for the many small entrepreneurs in the country. And please don't always talk in between! I've drawn your attention to this unculture at the last time. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10715	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10736	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Köchl, in this package you have now taken, you have to cut the tapes, set them up and read them. You'd have got it for that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In any case, it was a power act and a performance that you did. Mr Amon said earlier that the government groups have, of course, also a target and a website in this budget. We also have a target page, namely wage tax development, which is very dramatic. There we are one with some colleagues in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! One third of the total budget will be abolished this year by workers in the form of wage tax. And everyone who looks at the payroll sees how the cold progression affects, and notices that this is a change. Meanwhile, the wage tax exceeds VAT. We trade unionists cannot be so good at the negotiations, when it comes to wages and salaries, that workers do not eat the “real wage increases” – under quotations – almost away. Of course, the Minister of Finance or the Secretary of State today is pleased, but this is bad for the workers. That is why, I believe, there is a need for massive action. It has been announced that a tax-structural reform group will be set up. I think that's good. But we must pay attention to the time factor. We're running out of time. I would like to say from this point of view that the workers will certainly not wait for the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, because then it is too late. Today, it has been put to the fore by the Federal Chancellor: We must involve the rich more and invite them more towards solidarity with the workers who are the most affected. Let me just say a few words to the Austrian industry: The Austrian industry and its employees are very successful worldwide. We have a very high and extraordinary productivity and a high value added. The exports are at a record level. We also have an excellent yield structure. We only need to look at the reports when it comes to taking out which profits or dividend distributions, for example, the ATX companies to the owners or to the shareholders. There is also a high degree of flexibility, ladies and gentlemen, even though this is often seen a little differently by employers and the economy. We know that employees in Austria do 270 million overtime hours, and we also note this in the working time discussions we are currently conducting. It will not be possible – I say this quite clearly – to go along if the economy only understands flexibilization to remove overtime supplements. That won't be the way we'll go. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, through very important measures in the budget, this successful path will continue. The Austrian industry is well positioned, thanks to the highly qualified colleagues who give their best daily.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10797	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian government invests a lot in our children and in our families: €828 million by 2018 in family allowances, €350 million in the extension of childcare facilities and €400 million in school afternoon care. In addition to these many financial and legal things that this federal government will bring on, it will also be necessary to put all social levers in motion in order to make our country more family-friendly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mentioned it a few times in my remarks: The right of children to childhood is a special concern to me. I wish our families and our society much more serenity. Let's just let our kids be kids! We work on the acceptance for our children, and we work on the appreciation of the benefits our parents provide in our beautiful country. Mrs Musiol, I should like to thank you for yesterday's suggestion on Mantra. I've come up with it – and I'm actually honored, you've talked to me out of your mind – that's mayor and mayor Mantra: We work for the families. We work for the families. We work for the families – seven days a week and 24 hours a day. I'd like to put one more on it. Our family mantra should be: We're giving people courage. We're giving people courage. We encourage people to join us in making Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe. [[Abg. Moser: But a mantra alone is useless! That's Voodoo!]] I'll ask you again for your support. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10859	Next speaker: Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10884	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! What is the Federal Government's offensive package in agriculture? Federal Minister Rupprechter was on the road last week in my hometown in the southeastern Styria and in an interview sold the CAP reform as a full success. According to Rupprechter, only around € 170 million are available annually in Styria. This is clearly a beautiful number of weather conditions, and unfortunately one has to say that the tour is probably under the motto of “tarning and sluggishing”. If the CAP reform is calculated by 2020, the farmers lose around 20 percent of their funding. This will not stop the thinning of rural areas and the deaths of farmers. You have to be a true computer artist if you want to calculate a plus for the regions from a minus in the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Doppler: Very good!]] Another example of the loss of income of farmers is the price of beef. In March 2013, the beef price was €4, in March 2014 it was already just €3.55 – a further income loss for farmers by more than 10 percent. In 2013 the Styrian farmers have grown a total of 500 hectares of beetle beans. The harvest was a total loss due to the heat period – a 100 percent loss of income. On ORF Styria, a study has been published, according to which around 90 percent of farmers have been stressed for some time, even so far as they suffer from various mental and physical diseases. The reason is often that the level of indebtedness is so high that they no longer withstand mental pressure. And then they are also cut short the promotions! In these circumstances, how will the future generations take over the farms? Our farmers work 365 days a year. Let us look at our farmers, let us contribute an important part to the recovery of the rural area and thus prevent his further thinning! Our farmers are more than landscape-keepers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10926	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10948	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Another thematic change, from the farmers to the workers. As an employee spokesperson, I would like to say something about division 20, the subject of work. This includes €7 billion for labour market policy. Unlike always at this point, I do not want to say today: It should be more!, but I would rather ask the question of how these €7 billion will be used. There is, I think, still a need for improvement. First of all, the funds for passive labour market policies. These are those that are mainly used for unemployment benefit and emergency aid. In principle, the Unemployment Insurance Act provides that if one loses one's employment and no longer has income, one does not lose the financial ground under his feet, but receives funds such as unemployment benefit or emergency aid. But does the current system really protect against poverty? - No, it doesn't. The average unemployment benefit of women is €771, that of men at €948. The emergency aid for women is on average €627, that of men €747. You can't live on it without a debt. In this respect, the system fails. It doesn't fulfill what I expect. Secondly, active and activating labour market policies; the second major budgetary block. As a result, the “measures” of the AMS fall below – under quotation marks. In recent times there have been debates or discussions about the quality of these measures. You all know that. The People's Procuratorate has received numerous complaints about this, and we MEPs also hear complaints over and over again. I am convinced that there is a need for action here, and I would also like to tell you an example that I have been accommodated last week. A large company from the Zell am See district, i.e. from the country of Salzburg, from which I come, does not find any employees for years, across, from the auxiliary workers to qualified office staff; and this in a region where unemployment is more than 6 percent. This means that cooperation between companies with constant personnel needs and the AMS simply does not go away, at least as far as the supply of skills is concerned. This company says it also knows other companies in the region that are similar. There is therefore a need for improvement. Ladies and gentlemen, one point to the end. For me, the following is clear: The active labour market budget needs to solve to a great extent problems that cause our education policy. This means that the best investment in labour market policy is intensive investment in the education sector, in a reform of education. And that must be clear to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e10993	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11014	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Dear colleague, honey! A few thoughts on your comments on labour market policy: I'm right that the budget is a high budget. In addition, we have donated €350 million for integration, for reintegration into the first labour market of older workers, which is right. The criticism that unemployment benefit, support and emergency aid are too small can be seen in this way. I would simply like to say that the time spent in unemployment is to be kept as short as possible – so there is an active labour market policy that the government is very much committed to. The average stay in Austria is currently 96 days. This is a relatively short period after which people are integrated into the labour market, also thanks to the good work of the AMS consultants. I would also like to say that at this point. With all the criticism about one course or another, you need to know that there are a million customers a year who visit the AMS services – a million people! – as flexibility in the labour market is simply, very high. This should not be forgotten in the case of all criticism that is appropriate here or there, I would simply like to stress that. However, I am also referring to the budget for disabled people and I would like to mention a very small number of colleague Jarmer. I am also very sorry that the The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. But there it is very well illustrated, I will also say a few words. It would really be time for all the ministries in their next budgets to identify the measures for disabled people, since the NAP is a very, very important part of the disability policy in Austria and we have done a lot in this area in recent years. The National Action Plan for People with Disabilities is actually a good picture of how the Federal Government wants to make policy for people with disabilities. I would like to stress that, particularly in the Social Ministry, there is also great importance in the field of labour market policy for people with disabilities, since this is very important for the self-esteem of people and for a self-determined life. It is good that there will again be sufficient resources in this area. In addition, I would like to stress that it is an effective objective of the social sector to integrate people with disabilities into the first labour market. What I think is particularly important as a woman is that there should be specific measures for women with disabilities. This is also explicitly thrown out in the budget. I now come very briefly to the care allowance, which is very high in the next few years. From 2011 to 2016, €1.3 billion was made available for the care fund, and in the following years it will be € 700 million. There too, the government cannot be accused of not being important to the needy people and their relatives. This is how we can work well in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11069	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11090	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[Abg. Heinz-Peter Hackl: With the pink tie! Are you going to the NEOS?]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Beautiful tie!]] Today, the Federal Chancellor mentioned that a very ambitious budget was presented by the Minister of Finance, with clear objectives that are going through at local level. As mayor, I can say that there are people who feel it in the afternoon care, in school afternoon care, in the equipment of our childcare facilities and in the area of safety. [[Call the Greens:... Care!]] A thousand more police officers in the coming years – even if police posts are locked up, the new structure will give the police a higher presence on the streets, which means more security for our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Doppler: We need this now!]] There are, of course, heavy thunderstorm clouds over this budget, namely the handling of the blue debacle hypo-affaire carinthia. It is also not exactly what a party is that it is taking responsibility to steal from this, as our liberal colleagues like to do. If today – I think for the sixth time – we have a debate with the requirement to set up an investigative committee, then it seems to me like a home movie under the direction of the Greens and the Home Party, of course the Free Party, entitled “The Heritage of the Bear Valley”. [[Abg. Doppler: Rädler as the main actor!]] [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] - Yeah, you just don't know where the culprit is anymore. But we may experience this in today's discussion. These are the problems that people no longer deal with. People are dealing with those targets that are the most important of this budget. [[Abg. Moser: Why do hundreds of thousands then sign the demands?]] It should not come as far as the Federal Republic of Germany, where the establishment of a rainbow coalition has once been established in the room. We have a rainbow opposition here in this House today, which has united itself under certain conditions that are directed at one side or another: to hold these committee discussions together under one roof, and all of this in a narrow, alienating one. [[Abg. Moser: This is not rainbow!]] If I look at the stronachists who, in their way of thinking, want to be totally committed to capitalism and to abolish social warmth in our country, or the NEOS, who enter into the discussion with abstruse religious beliefs – yes – and want to direct their policies to Russia, Europe-friendly to that point, I must say: [[Abg. Rebour: You only have social warmth when the economy works!]] [[Abg. Stroll: I like your tie!]] You probably do not know that we stand for a peaceful Europe and not for the ideas you have. The Greens have long been thrown to the chest of the liberals in their orientation – following the survey data. It was significant that today a colleague Mr. Kogler had to show a note on which “environment” was established, otherwise he would not have taken the word into his mouth at all. So far you have already landed in the right camp in your committee of inquiry. The original of the Greens was here today: Mr Wabl looked at this, went and asked himself: What has become of this green movement, which was once very young and now looks very old?- Oh, my God! Not, Mr. Walser? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: This is a parliament, not a cabaret!]] I believe that this budget has created the conditions for freeing ourselves from this tightness. We should be more proud. We should be proud of the fact that we are the second-richest country in Europe, and show this and not demarcate ourselves by the ideas that the FPÖ represents and the barriers you want to bring down in Europe. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Thanks to the diligent citizens!]] Europe needs Austria. We need Europe. [[Abg. Deimek: Lots of money and little performance!]] We can bring something in there, a country that is well established, and not a land of badgers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11288	Mr Mölzer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11309	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Rädler, that is probably also a little bit to the ÖVP, if you manage to prevent this left coalition and not to crush it – that is one variant – or if you don't find yourself in such a rainbow coalition yourself soon, but that's your own thing. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] To the budget: Today, several of my previous speakers have found that when you look at it in a first look at it in the first reading, it is hardly an ambition to find a vision. [[Abg. Wheeler:... Child weighting!]] It always finds the same spicy and always the same stands, and basically you only find a standstill. This also applies to the cultural resort, which has not yet been talked about much today and yesterday. It is very remarkable that even the official government budget report gives the best: “In principle, however, it can be noted that (...) there are no relevant changes or differences in the essential positions such as art promotion, monument protection, federal museums and the Federal Theatre (...).” What does that mean? – So the government itself admits that there is a standstill in this cultural budget that nothing goes on. On the contrary, if you really count the cultural budget on the last twelve years, it has fallen by 4.4 percent. There is an urgent need to put in place a wide range of control measures here, for example in the area of large managers, where staff costs are increasing and operating budgets are getting smaller and smaller. There is much to be done here, but not to maintain the standstill. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you read a little bit into this budget, because you have the hope that, for example, there are brilliant approaches to the objectives of action, such as how you might be able to go in a better or right or in a different direction in the future, you will quickly be disappointed. The objectives of action – that is clear to me – are something that applies not only for a year but for several years, that is not at all a question. But if one reads in the sub-books, then it is quite interesting that there is a real letter for lettering that the measures to implement the objectives are repeated over and over again, one. An example in the 2014 brochure: Under the objective of action 1, “Sustainable anchoring of contemporary art in society, ” one can read that one wants to make the “visit of the collection of the Artothek of the Federal Government in the 21st House...” or, for example, “the anchoring of the gender emphasis in music promotion”. In the 2015 issue, i.e. next year, you can read exactly one by one, letter by letter: “Revelation of the collection of the Artothek ” or “the anchoring of the gender focus in music promotion”. These are just two examples of many where basically copy and paste measures are rewritten. I have already agreed that it takes longer to implement certain things, that is no question at all, but the sadness in doing so is, for example, in the visibility of the 21st house, that this was already included in the 2013 budget. That's what I'm asking myself: For example, how long can it take to present this collection to the public accordingly? And I'm excited if we'll find that again in the 2016 budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In principle, however, I can also question the objectives of effectiveness as such. They sound very ambitious, one can sign them in the matter or not, but they are of course relatively high-end evening and pass the real problems we have. This concerns, for example, if we think of a current question, the scandal in the Burgtheater, where we have been exposed to a system of friendly economy, mismanagement, and where, for example, I would have wanted to have an effective goal, in which one formulates that one again implements compliance rules and ethically impeccable financial conduct in cultural enterprises. That would be an effect goal. If I think of the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister yesterday, in which he spoke of the transparency database and of the fact that, in the context of subsidies, one seeks at all to increase efficiency, then I would also like to do so in the field of art and culture. It would be nice if that were there somewhere. But that's not the case. – In this way, the two essential things that don’t really happen. So the summation is at this first glance, in the first reading – I have already said it –: No ambitions, no visions, standstill. And the sadness is still: The hope that in the next few weeks there will be some change in the budget discussions is not given to me as an Austrian learnt, nor to many others, because the National Council is of course always there to wink through these proposals with its red-green majority of governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11363	Mr Pirklhuber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11384	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rädler – he is, I believe, no longer in the hall; direct it to him, is right – has been so preoccupied. [[Abg. Schönegger: We judge it to him.]] I would like it if he could go in and think about what the ÖVP has to do in recent years and what is actually a fact. He may look at himself – and with this I would like to deepen this debate at a later hour – what actually happened to the debt over the years. In your budget, which you submit, the total government debt in 2015 is € 260 billion. How was the development? – In the period 1986-2005, public debt increased by €100 billion, and in the period 2005-2015 it also increases by 100 billion. One was 20 years, the other 10 years. There is also a mechanism behind it, which is relevant and which concerns all economies in the globe, which is the interest rate and interest rate problem, which is the question of the financial system, which is also the question of how growth needs to be justified so to speak, namely: Growth is imperative for the operation of investments, for the reduction of debt et cetera. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a philosophical or practical problem, that is indeed a global problem. It would have been interesting, therefore, if a finance minister had gone here once and said that we are orienting ourselves according to others, according to new principles, namely a resource-efficient economy, a restructuring of the modern service, industrial society, a reorientation in view of global challenges. Then I would understand if it was said here: Yes, we have to do something! – We Greens are sure to be the first to say: Yes, we want to reroute! We want to start something new and venture an economy beyond waste, an economy beyond exploitation, an economy that actually seeks to implement security of supply, circular economy at all levels. – I heard nothing from Mr Spindelegger. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's see why this is so essential: In your budget, which you submit, the interest for government debt now amounts to almost €7 billion. This accounts for almost 10 percent of the expenditure. This is as much as it is spent on work. This is as much as the expenditure for families and youth. This is more than twice as much as the expenditure on social and consumer protection, more than twice as much as is spent on universities and vocational colleges, more than three times as much as on agriculture, for example, and more than ten times as much as is spent on the environmental budget. Ten annual budgets for the environment alone constitute the burden of interest! Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually the drama that you are also massively cutting down on the environmental budget. I think this is simply not a strategy for the future. You have not set any new impulses in this budget. Business if usual is not an option. There will be no such thing as suffocating as before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11427	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11448	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to quote two figures from this one-metre-high paper mountain, which are very important to me, especially from the point of view of the workers. One figure is that it is expected that revenue from VAT will rise by 15 percent by 2018. The second number is that income from wage tax will rise by almost 30 percent. These two figures say a lot. The fact that VAT revenue does not rise so strongly says something about the purchasing power of the Austrians, especially the employees. This is also covered by what the Chamber of Commerce has said today, namely that there are individual areas where development is stagnating, that there are individual areas where it is declining, and that there is even a downward trend in food trade. That means you have to look at exactly what that means with regard to purchasing power. On the other hand, there is expected to be an increase of plus 30 percent in wage tax revenue. That's exactly what I'm saying: What does that mean for workers? – Mr Finanzminister and Vice-Chancellor said yesterday that he who works hard should have more in his pocket in the future. But he also said that this budget is a basis, and a tax reduction or a tax reform will not be possible until we can afford it. – That somehow implies to me a bit the terrifying possibility, which could not even be the case in 2016, but perhaps later. And as a trade unionist I say very, very clearly and clearly: That's not how it will be! Whoever believes we can now continue the revenue from the cold progression to me nothing to do with you without even putting clearly on the table how it comes to a relief from workers inside and from workers, it is likely feel the resistance of the workers and certainly the resistance of the trade unions. I am in favour of the fact that the working group is working quickly, that it has a proper gas supply and that a concept is then presented that has a reduction in the input tax rate and a real wage tax relief for workers and that it is also trying to develop a model that will also help to tackle the issue of cold progression in the long term – and that we must therefore make a tax-structure reform that does not only work in 2016, but, if possible, much earlier. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Rädler said he is so proud that we are the second-richest country in the European Union. I am also proud of this, and I believe that the second-richest country in the European Union must be able to afford a rapid relief to workers from the cold progression. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11496	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11518	Dear taxpayers! Successful is who implements. To implement, we need courage. And our government, our finance ministers, show courage, even though many today have not seen it like that in the discussion. In the few months we have seen the courage to find and represent a hypo solution: How is she doing, and what does she cost us? We have seen the courage to adopt a tax-change law that is safe against one's own clients, but it is necessary to create scope. And now, in the course of the budget speech, we see the courage to create these spaces, because without savings we will not have this game capital to be able to implement tax reforms in the future. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: a committee of inquiry!]] Yes, we need this courage, and we have that courage. We have the courage to start new reforms in the future. We have the courage to look at topics that have been postponed for many years: the simplification of wage settlement, the adjustment of the Income Tax Act, the Social Insurance Act and, I hope, the Building Workers' Allowances. It is a matter of making this simple together, so that it is reasonable to people again. We need the courage to find non-bureaucratic solutions – whether it be for drinking money billing, for intern billing, or so you can charge out subsidies without the cost of accounting more than the employee does. We must find this courage. We need the courage to redefine the Income Tax Act in order to set lower input tax rates, but also to extend this whole range, because what was perhaps a high income 20 years ago is now a medium income. We need this courage – and we have documented this courage through this budget, through this trend change. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us see this budget as a trend turnaround, too! Let us see it as the creation of spaces that we can use together! We work together with the tax reform commissions, which is how we can make Austria successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11554	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11576	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! While a concept is being developed in Germany for the suspension of cold progression, in Austria there is not even a thought about it. Inflation devours any wage increase, and the Minister of Finance doubles itself in the fists. In the area of justice, this is particularly true. The cold progression does not leave people any more money in their pockets, but at the same time the court fees are very much adjusted to inflation. This makes it more difficult to access the law. Today, a lawyer needs to consider carefully whether he can afford to do so in court at all – and this, although the Austrian judicial system is financing itself to an extremely high degree in European comparison with fees, as an evaluation of the European judicial systems has shown. While the cost coverage by means of revenue in Europe is low 22 percent, in Austria a percentage of 110 can already be said to cover a fee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is more than questionable that in a state where wage increases have been lagging behind for years of inflation, the court fees are subject to automatic inflation adjustment and therefore, as a direct result, rise disproportionately. The existing system is less socially weak, and it is highly worrying that not all people have the same opportunities to exercise their rights. It cannot be the goal of a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, to make it difficult for citizens to access justice. No, it is our most important task as a people's representative to guarantee this as far as possible. There is clearly still a need for reform here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Spindelegger, yesterday you proclaimed that you would pay attention to every tax euro of the Austrians and that the tax money would be handled carefully. Then I ask you: How can it be in times of tight budgets that in some prisons we can now talk about feeling at ease? A prison sentence serves as a penalty, not to allow a criminal to stay in a state-subsidized luxury. These financial resources should be invested in the equipment of judicial officers, ladies and gentlemen. Not those who sit in need of money, but those who protect us from these offenders. Dear citizens, I promise you: We're not going to let go of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11628	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. – The clock is set to 3 minutes. The total residence time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11651	Madam President. Valuable members of the Federal Government on the government bank! The Federal Chancellor is now no longer present, but he has told us a little bit today and has meant that we should not speak up. He has also brought a quote from a famous future researcher, Mr Horx, who has just meant how beautiful everything is here in our country. I don't want to say that bad either. I also like Austria very much and think it has many advantages. The social state also has great advantages. But I'd like to get away with another quote. In this week’s edition of the “Falter” an interview was to be read, and I found this very exciting, with the new intentionant of the Vienna Konzerthaus, Matthias Naske. He has not been in Austria for ten years – he was in Luxembourg, which is not exactly the poorest country – and he has been asked whether, after ten years, he is returning to Austria, he is aware of differences. And he referred to the question of what had changed: “My first impression was that the city has become much more heterogeneous. The inequality is clearer. You see more poverty, you see more rich.” And we must not be surprised. I just wonder if the Chancellor of the Federal Republic no longer has enough distance to the country to have a look at the situation in that country and to realize that there are indeed fewer and fewer rich, but more and more poor. It also tells us all the reports that will also be discussed internationally, that by now 1 percent is very rich and 99 percent have exactly nothing of them. For me, yesterday's speech left two pictures. That's one of the huge debt mountains. And I could not see the great vision for Austria, how we could now do this in terms of distribution justice or otherwise. The second was: 25 000 cars that Austrians were able to afford last year as a picture of the great prosperity in our country. I find it very surprising that, as in the 1970s, we continue to measure the prosperity in this country by how many cars the Austrians can afford. This is more than worrying not only for environmental reasons, but also for social policy reasons. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, I absolutely lack the visions in the whole area – if I now address my social policy area. I don't see a picture, I only see the debt mountain and the cars. Please tell us what Besides, you're planning! Yesterday, for example, the care allowance was mentioned. There is not even a legal claim for this, and it is €5 million in the total budget. So what about the huge care sector, which is one of the biggest challenges in our society? What about demographic development? Each and every one of us is affected – with parents to care for, with grandparents to care for. That wasn't a theme yesterday, you're over it. This is, however, one of the biggest challenges, in terms of budgetary policy, and I expect answers to it, at least in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11709	Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11730	Madam President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, politics must create the framework conditions for the creation and mediation of art and culture. An open concept of art and culture promotes understanding and Experience the world and respect for the others. It enables participation in social processes and emphasizes the individual's personal responsibility, regardless of social, ethnic or religious origin. Art and culture are part of the Austrian self-understanding and also an important economic factor. And of course, the framework conditions for artistic and cultural work need to be continuously secured and improved. On the one hand, this is done through a cultural budget that has succeeded in keeping the approximately €442 million constant despite budget consolidation, so the budget remains at the same level for 2014 and 2015. On the other hand, of course, further measures are needed, for example, modern and timely copyright. There must certainly be a result by the end of the year at the latest. I'm talking about a fair and fair remuneration for artists – keyword: Hard disk charge. But above all, I am talking about a strong copyright right, but also about making new uses available to users and thereby enabling new creations. But it is also a question of strengthening the Austrian music industry, and in addition to politics I clearly see the ORF and Hitradio Ö3 in the duty. In order for the Austrian musicians, who make all excellent music, to survive, they must also be played. [[Abg. Kickl: At Conchita Wurst I'm not so sure!]] Therefore, I call on public-law broadcasting, which has a clear cultural order to play more Austrian music on the most heard radio station in Austria. If the self-obligation has not worked so far, then you have to think about a music quota scheme. In my opinion, you have to send your own music broadcast of the Austrian pop culture on television in order to support the Austrian music industry. And if I say television, I'm automatically in the film industry. We can rightly be proud of our film industry. The Austrian film wins an international prize after the other, not only for cinematographic films, but also for television films. For this very reason, it must not happen that the ORF is massively apart in this area. No, dear ORF, that's too easy, there must be quite different and clear possibilities!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11768	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11789	Madam President. Minister and Minister of State! High house! Actually, the wrong person speaks to you, because health is more female. 80 per cent of health care workers are women, with doctors already, with young doctors, well over 50 per cent. Since women are known to live about six years longer – thank God – and have a life expectancy of about 85 years, of course their power density is also much higher. And the budget takes this into account – not the question of women in general, but we have come through the Lehman plea without reducing the benefits. This is already an essential achievement, which is not of course. France is shortening the benefits, Italy is now shortening the benefits, I am not talking about Greece at all, and Germany is happy and has anchored this in the government programme that within four weeks a specialist doctor's appointment is to be made. So these are very different relationships than with us. As I see Mr Strolz right now: The discussion in the Health Committee, the dental discusion, was a bit embarrassing, because it is actually a step forward. One can argue about whether self - retention is true or not, but it is an essential leap forward. This has to be seen, and it will affect about 85 000 children. You can think about adjustments at any time, but you can also be failed. To be successful means that one has looked there once, just as we have kept in the government programme, we intend to take child psychological care, generally child care, even children's rehabilitation more seriously, and to close these gaps. But that also means we're thinking about how we're making the whole system better. The system is well positioned if it has a good base, with domestic doctors, for every tangible, but also when the top works. In my opinion, the AKH could be among the world's three best hospitals, as there is a need for improvement, a need for discussion. The health system means a constant ringing, a ringing that makes something that is good in Austria even better. [[Call the ÖVP: Time!]] At some point we all have to die once, and then we are healed if we have a care or a cure and do not lose a chance of healing, just because there was no care. We're going well in Austria, but I'm telling you honestly: Of course, we must and can still be better.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11823	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11844	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister Klug, it is good that you are just sitting on the government bank, because: no first reading without the state defense! The savings in the area of national defence are “a declaration of bankruptcy of Austrian security and defence policy as well as a blow to the face of all soldiers who are committed to the security of the population”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] "The tasks of the Federal Government, which are governed by the Constitution, can no longer be fully fulfilled without savings. There is an obvious contradiction between the objectives of the Austrian Security Strategy, which Parliament decided only a few months ago, and the resources provided." This is not the position of the opposition here in the house, but the position of the Austrian officer company, Mr. Federal Minister, which is probably known to you. And you have partially confirmed this position by your statement that the bottom of the barrel has been reached. So it is going to be a matter for us to do this. Discrepancy with regard to the decided security strategy and the funds allocated to the Austrian Federal Army and its performance in the debates on the budget It would be your job, Mr Federal Minister, to close this gap in order to obtain the resources necessary for the performance of the Federal Force. We all know that the Austrian federal army and the state defense will participate in the savings of the total budget. We also know, however, that in recent years the Austrian Federal Army has been actively involved in the savings. In the years 2009 to 2016, the Federal Government already saves €1.7 billion. In addition to these savings, the figure will now be €45 million, which will be saved this year and next year. Mr Federal Minister, in the Committee on Budgets and in the debates, we will address the details; unfortunately, I do not have the time needed for this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11892	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11914	Madam President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! High house! A few words about the Federal Chancellery and the highest organs: Like all other areas, of course, the Federal Chancellery and the highest institutions are also affected by the austerity measures which unfortunately became necessary because in Carinthia there has been a mismanagement which the federal government now has to do with. There's no way to get past that you're always saying who's to blame for the lack of resources. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Investigation Committee!]] It is also possible to make reforms with a few means. Because it is always said that there is a standstill: Let's look at the Federal Chancellery! The introduction of the administrative courts is one of the largest reforms of the Second Republic, the financing of the administrative courts, the introduction of a two-stage transfer – at last internationality prevails at this level that the second instance is a judge and no longer an administrative authority – the abolition of the three-stage transfer in administration means more efficient access to law, shorter procedures, saving a third instance – these are reforms that can be seen! Show me a country in Europe that has made such a judicial reform, with the resources we have available! There is no other country in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] If we talk about this budget, we should also bear in mind that there are also reforms that are looking for their own in Europe. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I am therefore in the next reform, namely the Information Freedom Act, which means the abolition of the silence of office, which offers transparency like no other law. There too we are leading Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] We will implement this law, it is already in review; we will implement it before the summer. I don't think we need to put our light under the casket, too. This is a reform that is looking for the same in Europe, and this is a direction-setting reform. We will also accept data protection during this legislative period. We will try to make reforms because it is necessary to respond to social concerns. Data protection is one of the most important concerns to be dealt with by us over the next five to ten years. We will have to say goodbye to the standard procedures that burden businesses, and we will have to come to an efficient control, both of the state institutions and of the private institutions, because these are the challenges of our society. These reforms are taken into account in the present budget, they are not honoured accordingly because something good never experiences the attention of the press or the media. In my area, however, as I believe, we are direction-setting and Europe-wide.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e11978	Mrs Mag. Steinacker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12000	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “We don’t save the country, we’re saving the state slim.” – That’s what our Minister of Finance and Vice President Michael Spindelegger said yesterday as part of his budget speech. The judicial budget is one of the examples. The Minister of Finance, together with the Minister of Justice, saves by raising in particular efficiency potential in daily work in justice. IT instead of Paperberge is a good way to implement the savings targets in all resorts. With us, there is no shattering, and I say we go to the “saving of moderns. ” It is also possible to go to the offensive. We can invest wisely, and with the security package for Austria, the judicial guard receives a hundred more employees. They are urgently needed, especially in the field of youth punishment. There are eleven new judicial posts, especially in the field of economic and corruption law, as well as the extension of family justice. Our rule of law costs a lot of money – between €1.2 billion and €1.3 billion in the next few years – but it secures legal certainty. The judicial budget provides access to justice. I would like to say to Mr Schrangl at this point – he is a good lawyer and he is sure that there is procedural assistance in Austria for the fellow citizens who need it. [[Call to the FPÖ: The poor get the procedural assistance, but the one who can afford it!]] The judicial budget thus provides access to law, an appropriate period of procedure, a modern organisation of justice, courts and enforcement. All these indicators have led us to demonstrate top positions on these issues in the EU Justice Barometer. The budget is set up in such a way as to support the implementation of the government programme accordingly. The year 2014 is marked by the rule of law. With the introduction of the administrative courts, we have taken the reform path. With the abolition of the cutting ban at the District Courts, we try – we have decided in the Constitutional Committee that you can help with the opposition – to continue the reform process in Austria. We turn the trend: away from the unscrupulous debt mountain, to a new Austria! Remember this budget debate well, because in my opinion it is historical. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This budget for the years 2014 and 2015 is the last with new debt. I am delighted about this, and I am particularly pleased about it for my two children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12053	Next speaker: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12074	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! I would like to say a few more words about traffic. The Vice-President said in his budget speech that there would be a lot more money going into public transport. But now this is in absolute contradiction to my perceptions, which I have, for example, from Lower Austria. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, they are currently being torn away at the price of old iron. People's wealth is deliberately ruined. 28 runways were taken over by the Land of Lower Austria and now 26 of them were locked up. The trails become pointless cycle paths, which sometimes run parallel to each other. It's high-grade nonsense that's taking place here. In view of the current cost of fuel and energy, I ask myself why it is being broken down rather than expanded. I think that would be the access we need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My question is therefore: Where does the money flow when it says it flows into the train? In any case, Lower Austria has been set free. I believe that there is also an inconsistency of transport policy in individual transport. Klubobmann Lopatka today told very flowery that he had gone through the city and everything was beautiful. – I already believe that everything fits when he passes through the capital when he passes through the 1st century. District goes. But I invite him to go to the forest district and visit the Lilienfeld district, where there is no infrastructure. I think then we could actually talk about people's problems and then we would know where we have real problems on traffic issues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the largest federal state of Austria, adequate transport routes for individual transport are still lacking. For example, citizens in the Waldviertel have been waiting for a start for the Waldviertelautobahn for 20 years. To date, people in this region are declared second-class people. Mr Landeshuptmann himself also drives through the country and blocks any initiative that deals with the implementation of a forest district motorway. There is another problem, however, also in the Lower Austrian Central Area. Since 1971, the S 34 has been discussed. In reality one should rename the S 34 to S 43, because for so long one has already discussed this 9 km long route. - It can't be! It is true, therefore, that this discussion process has already lasted 43 years – and I have to express a warm congratulations on red and black. It seems to me that one is just talking about it for so long, so that one can get that out again in every election campaign. If I draw a conclusion from it and think about how to open up my district that would require 40 kilometres of high-level road network, if I calculate it, we would have a discussion process before us that would last 200 years. I believe that this is indeed unreasonable and an increase of the citizens in the central area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, was just the examples from Lower Austria; there are similar problems throughout Austria. So if you examine the Budget PowerPoint presentation of the Minister of Finance in terms of public and individual transport, you must necessarily conclude: That wasn't even hot air.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12149	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12171	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After a first review of the residential budget chapter, I would like to briefly give my first impression of what new housing is expected in the next few years. The Federal Government is investing where Austria needs impulses, and I am pleased that part of this offensive package concerns housing, because housing needs urgent impulses. Living has also been defined as an important government goal and additional funds are provided for this purpose. In the years between 2015 and 2018, additional €180 million in social housing will be invested as an offensive measure to stimulate growth. It is important in this context, I believe, to say that funds not collected by the federal states are not lost, but that they can be collected by other federal states investing in housing by 2018. Last year, Vienna was the only federal country to use all its resources. I hope that in the future many federal states will make use of it to make such important investments. The €180 million already mentioned has been received twice in the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, the second time they have been mentioned under the heading ‘Company’. Housing is, of course, not to subsume among companies, but an important fundamental right. However, what is necessary in order to provide sufficient housing, is that, in view of the demographic development to be expected, there is again a commitment to the purpose of housing development and the return flows, which is enshrined by law. The Minister of Finance has also explained that in the next few years, 300 million of investments in housing bonds will be made available to funded housing. In the area of rehabilitation, 100 million will continue to be available. And I am pleased that better – from the SPÖ’s point of view – opportunities have also been created to facilitate renovation in multi-storey housing. On the BIG, I would like to acknowledge that the first 600 million limit will be reached in 2015 for investments in new construction. This is almost three times as high as 2008 at the beginning of the economic crisis, at that time it was € 220 million. Finally, I would like to say once again that living in Austria is only possible if it finally comes to a new rental right, with which the rapidly rising rents can be reduced to a socially acceptable level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12222	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12243	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We just heard: The issue of living is a very important one, especially in terms of increasing costs. Mr Becher has already mentioned that we have agreed in the government programme on such measures for sustainable living. We find a first part of these measures in this budget, i.e. measures to increase housing, and measures to improve the quality of housing. I should like to repeat briefly the points raised by Mr Becher: € 180 million is planned by the Federal Government as a grant for the countries for the supported housing. € 300 million will be made available from investments in residential bonds through a change in the profit-free amount for this purpose. The 100 million € for thermal renovation were addressed. For me, for example, the craftsman bonus is also a measure for the modernisation, maintenance and renovation of housing. Ladies and gentlemen! All these are measures that stimulate the creation of housing, measures that contribute to sustainable housing, because only a functioning housing market is a guarantee of sustainable housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12280	Mrs Rosenkranz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12301	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It was the talk of a historic budget and a trend change. I understand that as a member of a government party, you have to praise the budget, but this pathos is a bit obsolete. But I have to say that it would be good if there were a trend change in family policy, but here is only to read: Strengthen compatibility between work and family – we have heard this for years; it is also important, but it is not a comprehensive concept. It would be comprehensive to say that families must finally be given the right place, not only because without children no safe age, that would be the material reason, but also because without children no future for this state at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the just place they don't have! I quote the family bishop Klaus Küng, he says: Children are the safest way to poverty. – Very provocative and very correct. Of course, it is so – that is banal – that it is interesting how many minds have to live from an income: the more children, the less per capita income. Give up, especially you on this page, your resistance to tax justice for families! [[towards SPÖ]] The families must finally be brought to justice in tax law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second – equally provocative and equally true –: The Doyen of Demography Professor Dr. Birg says: Children benefit from our system who has no. - That's right, too. The three-generation treaty takes away from families and gives way to those who have saved themselves these burdens of moving up. So this is the balance between family expenses – no promotion with God, absolutely inadequate. Only a quarter of the costs will be replaced. Again, the families with their services are finally fair! There is no less, and we are not satisfied with less.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12361	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Harald Türt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12386	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point for this budget was certainly a difficult one, thanks to the blue inheritance from Carinthia, but first I would like to contradict the fact that this is a standstill. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] This budget is not a standstill, I would like to give an example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Mr Glawischnig of the Greens has today claimed that the expansion of all day schools has been stopped, that the SPÖ would have approved of this former red demonstration project. That's wrong, both claims are wrong. From the belly I can tell from my district Simmering that at Wilhelm-Kreß-Platz 32 the folk school will be in operation as a full day school with September 2014 and a year later, 2015, the popular school will follow Simoningplatz 2, all day school in limited operation, i.e. school, teaching, leisure and games alternate, and that is a great success. This morning I asked myself what it looks like in Vienna as a whole. In Vienna, six full-day schools are in operation this year, as has already been said, Wilhelm-Kreß-Platz 22 in Simmering, in the 10th century. ==References====External links== Bezirk die Einsiedlergasse and – there are three new buildings in Vienna that are still in operation as schools of the whole day – the folk school and the Neue Mittelschule at Campus Hauptbahnhof Wien and the Volksschule Wehlistraße, a generalized expansion. I can only say, Mrs Glavischnig, in my district you would be described as a “burden printer”, that is still a nice formulation, one could also say that you deliberately claim false – or you are incompetent. There's no stopping all day school at all! The fact is that €50 million has not been collected for the expansion of various federal states, and in this context I would be interested – I have not been able to experience this in the short time –: What are the federal states in which the Greens rule, these articles do not collect 15a funds for the development of all day schools provided by the Federal Government to the federal states? There is also the Green responsibility in the national governments and does not need to hang or play the Bummerl just our Minister of Education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to comment on one point in the field of justice, on the youth detention centre. In this respect, the Minister of Justice is very, very good on the go. In 2014, that is, this year, the BIG takes over a building for adaptation. To separate the criminality of young people and older adults, I consider it extremely important for the resocialisation of young people who have become criminal. Austria had a progressive judicial execution in this area, but it was unfortunately led under the blue Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer ad absurdum, we have been reset to the Stone Age of Penalty. That's exactly what the Resocialisation of young people has been a huge step back. I would like to congratulate the current Minister of Justice Dr. Brandstetter on this decision, and I would also like to express my wish here: I hope that we will continue this step together to a separate Jugendgerichtshof in order to be able to put in place appropriate measures here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12459	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12480	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In recent weeks and months, the Minister of Defense has provided us with a real pool of feelings, from the much quoted floor of the barrel to yesterday's jubilation, it's not that bad in the defence resort, and it's all right anyway. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is, the Austrian federal government's financial situation is serious, very serious, possibly more serious than ever before. The fulfilment of the constitutional tasks must be ensured only by the very special use of the members of the Austrian Federal Government. Our special thanks to the Framework Soldiers at this point, because they do their job for Austria, for the Austrian Federal Army under very difficult financial and structural conditions. It is clear that the German army will also have to make its contribution to fiscal consolidation, just as the Federal Army has done in recent years. I am thinking of the consolidation packages of recent years, which we could at times consider more analytically. If we look into the future, there are some things for us that we need to clarify and which are irrevocable. The Austrian Federal Army is and remains a military army, a mixed system of professional frameworks, military officers and militias. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is actually ground in stone. Therefore: With us, there will be no evasion of the mobility criteria. With us, there will be no reduction in the number of convocations. In the end, there will be no fundamental rights debate with us. We need to ensure training and equipment standards that enable the Federal Government's performance and do not hinder it. The structural underlimit of 4 brigades, 9 military commanders, 27 battalions will no longer be subject to any need for reform. It is about the security of Austria, and I regard the fulfilment of domestic obligations as a priority duty. In connection with colported system reductions or sales, please ask: We don't lose capacities quickly! We do not know how fast and when we can also need them again in the shadow of the Ukraine crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] I assume that Federal Minister Klug – I have been aware of this in recent months – is aware of his responsibility, which he has to bear for the country as well as for the federal army. And I also assume that at the end of the day he is also personally responsible for maintaining the The Austrian Federal Government will be able to operate. – Live the Austrian federal army!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12538	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12559	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! There are natural laws that also apply to the budget. One of them is quite clear: You can't spend more permanently than you take. But this has been happening in Austria for half a century. For me as an entrepreneur, it is quite clear that such a thing must or may lead to bankruptcy. Entrepreneur: The ÖVP is always the entrepreneurship party. What does an entrepreneur need? – In principle, he needs three things: He needs a solid financial base. He needs relatively low costs and little red tape, and he needs customers and sales. Let’s take a closer look at two things! Let's go to the cost: Here you will always tell of the reductions in the additional wage costs you want to carry out, the ominous 3 € per month and employees. This does not help entrepreneurs in Austria. bureaucracy, small example from Tyrol: Last month a carpenter told me he's gonna close his business, his family business. You know why? – The fulfilment of the requirements, the investment in the machinery park, if his son now takes over the operation, costs him so much that he prefers to lock right away. That's an insanity in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, and the third point is sales, the customers. Here we have a huge problem. The cold progression has already been mentioned several times today. A short example: 3 per cent wage increase means 1 200 € in additional costs per year for an entrepreneur, 300 € for the employee raise net income per year, and the big winner is the state with 900 €. In the long run, we have exactly this problem, consumers have less and less money in the wallet, and this will in the long run also burden the entrepreneurs and the economy. For me, this is not an economic policy. The ÖVP has forgotten economic policy, the SPÖ has never understood it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12605	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12627	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The double budget 2014/2015 is also truly a challenge in the area of transport and infrastructure. The aim is to achieve the greatest possible success by limited means. The goal is clear: The modernisation of infrastructure and thus investment in the future of Austria are to be continued. This also requires reliability and stability. In terms of figures, the following is said: BMVIT will have €3.1 billion available for 2014 and €3.4 billion will be available in 2015. In the next two years, the focus will also be on developing the environmentally friendly rail industry. investment. In the current construction period 2014 to 2019, only €13.2 billion will be invested in the expansion of the rail. This ensures that 30 000 jobs are safeguarded or re-created. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Dear colleague Dr. Moser! In the same period, some 7.1 billion will be invested in the road. Values Mr. Hafenecker from the Central Area Lower Austria, you have criticized the fact that in Lower Austria only nothing is being torn away and invested at all. I can tell you, there will be significant investments from the side of the federal government in the coming years in Lower Austria. In Lower Austria, for example, the expansion of the rail, railway-west axles, west railway-south axis, the south railway is fully in progress and will continue in the coming years. And now to the co-existence: In total, € 4.3 billion will be invested in Lower Austria by 2018 alone, € 3.9 billion of it in the rail sector, € 1.4 billion in the road sector. In terms of rail development, €2.1 billion will be invested in new stock grids and the rest will be worth € 4.3 billion in the existing network. This will only create or secure 10,000 jobs in Lower Austria. That's about your information, my dear colleague. This only concerns Lower Austria. So we can be very satisfied as Lower Austrians and Lower Austrians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Summa summarum: The successful policy of recent years is continuing. A well-developed rail network is the basic prerequisite for a modern transport policy and also ensures the economic location of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The double budget 2014/2015 speaks a clear language in the transport sector. With limited resources, investment in a secure, efficient infrastructure is ensured, which is the backbone for the successful future of the country of Lower Austria, which is particularly important, the entire Republic of Austria. And this policy will continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12690	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12711	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the most stable, safest and also among the richest countries in the world, and Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. In order for us to continue to do so in the future, it takes tremendous effort, and all of us need it. We know that we have to put the budget in order, but we must not forget to invest in it so that the future is secure. This budget, as was presented to us yesterday, was also set up. The area of tourism, I can only say, is one of the factors of success. Austria is known worldwide as a tourist country. There has been no improvement in the resources, but no savings either. The ÖW funds remain the same, the funds for the EHT have been reduced briefly, but for this the liabilities have been increased, so that in total it is a zero sum game again. But what is very important for the economy in order to maintain competitiveness is the reduction of bureaucracy, which is also a future programme of this coalition, which has been written down. We know that conditions, controls and regulations are too pervasive. We know that this needs to be done, but we also know that in the meantime some are obsolete and it is better for an entrepreneur to work than to deal with this bureaucracy. In addition, the number of non-necessary farm representatives is reduced. The opposition is, of course, convinced that all this is not right, what is being done. We are convinced by the coalition that this is all right, but I already want to say something about it. I do not want to stick to the hypo now, this word has often fallen down enough today, but anyone who has experienced the freedom of the financial policy for fourteen years in Carinthia, who has just been responsible for financial policy and knows where the country of Carinthia is today financially – so please save this Republic from such a financial history! - Thank you. [[Abg. Haider: only condemned!]] [[Abg. Kickl: embossed!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12774	Next speaker: Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12796	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! The aim of the Federal Government is to strengthen the overall transport plan. It is important to ensure the mobility needs of people as well as the economy through the efficient and sustainable design of transport systems for the future. In order to achieve this – we have already heard from my previous speaker – in the period 2014 to 2019 about €13.2 billion will be invested in the rail and €7.1 billion in the road. Ladies and gentlemen, these are figures that can be seen very positively. I am pleased that the rail infrastructure offensive will also find a continuation during this legislative period and that the necessary funds will be made available by the Federal Government. For example, in my home country We are very interested in attracting public transport in Lower Austria. Since the Greens and the Liberals have already mentioned today that the money does not arrive in the region, I can tell you that only a few weeks ago an agreement was reached between the State of Lower Austria, the ÖBB and the BMVIT, thus investing around €140 million in the further expansion of the railway infrastructure. In other words, by 2018, a total of 16 railway stations in Lower Austria will take structural measures, starting with thermal renovations up to the installation of blind control systems, up to the installation of barrier-free access points. Also in the area of park-and-ride pitches, where currently around 30 000 parking places for cars and 23 000 parking spaces for two-wheeled cars are available in Lower Austria, up to In 2017, several new pitches were created at 29 stations, with a total volume of approximately €36 million. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are all investments in the region, in the area. I'm allowed to finish. I can say that the Chairman of the Board of Management of ÖBB has also declared a few days ago that Lower Austria is already the railway country number one in Austria. In addition, I would like to say one thing about the railway country, Mr Mag, Chairman of the Board of Directors. Core: In Lower Austria, a special effort will be needed to modernize, attract, internationalize and achieve a substantial reduction in travel time when, for example, the shortest rail link between Vienna and Prague, i.e. the Franz-Josefs railway, is involved. Then Lower Austria is really the railway country number one in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12847	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12868	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! This budget is the starting point for the change in the trend towards a structural zero deficit, but it is only being launched, because in order to make this trend change sustainable, we need a structural reform. And for a structural reform we need you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! A structural reform is only to be decided by two-thirds majority, and for this two-thirds majority we need you, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise there is no structural reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Otherwise not anyway!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Otherwise you don't need us!]] I therefore have a vision that in future Members of the NEOS, MEPs of the Greens, Members of the Free Parties agree to a request from the government parties on structural reforms, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like that from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mlinar: Anytime!]] [[Call the Stronach team.]] – I wish, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. Unfortunately, only four weeks ago did you provide us with the proof that you are not concerned with structural reforms. Here we – Mrs Mlinar, you were not inside, I'll tell you as soon as you don't know. [[New call of the abg. Mlinar.]] – There was your colleague from NEOS in the Constitutional Committee, it was about us to repeal a law from 1920 – from 1920! – because it is really superfluous and wrong that you should not cut out court bells and political districts today. All, including your colleague from the NEOS, have said: Good proposal. Your colleague from the Freedom Party also said: I fully agree. The Greens have said: Yeah, it's a good proposal. But then what happened? – The colleague of the Greens said: Only if something is done in the Committee of Inquiry. The colleague of the NEOS said: Reasonable, but wouldn't that have occurred to you before? [[Contradict with the NEOS.]] That's how it went. They prevent structural reforms in this country from taking place from the opposition! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and FPÖ.]] And without structural reforms no sustainable trend change, ladies and gentlemen! They are responsible for structural reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's concluded that you can give the government to the Black Peter. The responsibility of this House, ladies and gentlemen, is the responsibility of this House, where you are allowed to vote, for two-thirds majority, for structural reforms. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Yes! Yes, I do!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Research Committee!]] Then we have it. Vote with us, then we will make the trend change in Austria sustainable!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e12998	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13020	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We are in economically difficult times. I think that's well-known. Against this background too, we have mastered the challenge of creating a double budget for the years 2014 and 2015. Most of the priorities are set correctly. Two-thirds of the people in Austria live in rural areas and the rural areas and agriculture priorities have also been placed in the right place. What do we want to achieve for rural areas at the end of the day? – The aim is to create a master plan, but also to invest accordingly in rural infrastructure, to operate broadband internet development, and to make agriculture financially sound in the future for ensuring healthy food production in Austria – after the foreign exchange “with income also having income” a fairer distribution of funding, to ensure the protection of rural family farms as well as sustainable and environmentally friendly economies. The priorities of the budget for 2014 and 2015 in these areas – I have already said so – are going in the right direction, with more emphasis on some areas being adjusted. In the field of rural development, rural areas and agriculture, the 2014 budget increases by € 106 million compared with the 2013 financial framework to € 2.24 billion and € 86 million in 2015 to € 2.14 billion. The focus is on the implementation of the CAP, the common agricultural policy. I am concerned about strengthening organic farming and that Austria remains free of GMOs within the meaning of national self-determination law. I would also like to express the wish that Austria will also be GMO-free in terms of the use of feed. For all people living in rural areas, €470 million is also available until 2018, co-financed by the Republic of Austria. With these €470 million, compensation payments, direct payments, but also social services such as childcare or care measures are financed. For the compensation of drought damage, €50 million will be available in the current year 2014. As far as the action programme on high-water safety in Austria is concerned, we have estimated €200 million for this year and the current years up to 2018. I think that these two last budget items are also necessary and important. Of course, in the interests of the farmers concerned and the people living in the rural regions, we hope that these funds do not have to be fully used. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13065	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13086	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have done it with this budget, that we implement the government agreement, that we are starting to fulfil the common programme with life. I come from a region where last year we had great difficulties and concerns, because we had extreme floods on the Danube – and years before on March – that caused enormous damage. We then worked out the subject very quickly, together with the experts, but also in political consensus, and saw that we will have to make very quick investments in the dams for the security of the population. We prepared a program in the summer. This was confirmed in a Council of Ministers presentation. The election has come, and I was allowed to negotiate this issue with the coalition partner in the government negotiations. I can tell our voters today: This budget includes €462 million, which will be used to implement the necessary flood protection measures in the next few years, to repair what is necessary and to create new security. I would like the same for this region when it comes to the development of road infrastructure. There's still a lot missing. We're missing the A5, we're missing the S1, we're missing the S8. The money for that will be found. I hope that I will soon be able to report the same on these issues. The flood protection process has succeeded. The people on the rivers will soon be able to sleep calmly. Construction work will begin soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13120	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13141	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! We now have a debate for seven hours. The opposition has tried to explain why all this is insufficient, too few reforms and too few cuts. In my contribution to the debate, I would like to limit myself to making the essential classification. First of all, thank you very much to the coalition partner. Those who are in the House longer will remember, it was always the big discussion: How much do you make on the revenue side and how much do you make on the expenditure side? . We now have a very reasonable and balanced budget, where we have revenue across the entire financial framework of €2,685 billion in the right areas, where we also get more funding for the public tasks. Whether that is the bank's special contribution, whether the manager's salary is over €500 000, the limitation of group taxation, the withdrawal of the high income solidar tax, the reduction of the tax subsidy for Golden Handshakes, the Anti-profit-shifting in companies, the withdrawal of the GmbH light reform, measures against tax fraud or luxury pensions: These are reasonable areas that do not harm the economy, where taxes can be collected. At the same time, these are offensive measures that can be seen, which has already been explained. Why is this so reasonable, ladies and gentlemen? – Because some of the opposition here have spoken the harsh savings course: Look Why don't you take a look at the performance? What are the countries that have made genuinely strong structural reforms through cuts in expenditure? Look at Portugal! Look at Spain! Look at Greece! However, the deficit is still high there, but at the same time the growth rates are disastrous. Portugal has decreased by 0.411 percent last year, Spain by 0.5 percent, Greece had a minus of 3.5 percent, this year a minus of 0.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want our country there. That is why I am contributing: a proper budget, balanced measures, the lowest unemployment. You can congratulate the Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13183	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13205	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, If we see the double budget 2014/2015 under the general title of the trend turnaround, we must recognize that it will be two difficult years in which we also take on additional debt. But we come to the stage where we will not make new debts, and that is the way we belong to. We have a backpack to carry, which has been educated by a corrupt state government, but which we will carry. However, it has also been misrelated today. For example, the hypo was compared as a point of expenditure with the rising pensions. I'd like to reject that. It is important to maintain the pension system. But the finger was placed on the wound point. It is not pensioners, little Jörg Haiders, who run around and are responsible for a deficit, but rather we must be careful that we also have a working world for older workers to keep them in the work process and thus also to be able to raise the retirement age. There is a need for more responsibility and fewer common table polemics. If we are making reforms, such as in the police sector, where we are saving on the one hand in the administration and the posts, but on the other hand we are putting new, active officials into service, then there is also an important step. And I also expect the opposition to be more responsible and less regular table polemics. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If one is played against the other in the area of environment and agriculture, that is not the right thing, because agriculture is an active environmental economy. We may have to delete some euro for an association or association in the environmental field, because it is necessary, but we will see that every euro and every cent comes to the farms, because this is not a question of any levelling, it is about food security in Austria, it is about the provision of energy reserves. It is ultimately about ensuring security of supply and sovereignty in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! On this stable path of Federal Minister of Finance Dr. Michael Spindelegger, we can look into the future – with more responsibility and less common table polemics.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13262	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I assign to the Committee on Budgets the Government's documents 50 of the Supplements and 51 of the Supplements. [[16:18:41]] 3rd. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the Request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna (043 HV18/14a) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Heinz-Christian Strache(127 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13301	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I don't see word messages. This is the debate – excuse me. [[Abg. Kunasek: Yes!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Wait!]] In my computer you do not exist, Mr. Dr. Rosary. But that doesn't mean you're not talking. [[Abg. Kogler: NSA!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Member of the European Parliament, for information only: There are 6 minutes of total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13365	Thank you, Madam President. – Although Mr Matznetter said in his interlocutory call that it would be good if there were only in the computer: This honors me very much because praise from this false corner is rarely given to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One clearly sees that I am right here at the speaker's desk from the point of view of the liberals, probably also from the point of view of the rest of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to explain this a little because we will vote against this proposal, which comes to the vote here, and then one or another, perhaps also in reporting, in the media, might think that we are here protecting ourselves in the protection of immunity from our Federal Party Minister and Clubobmann and National Councillor HC, in a matter that cannot be overlooked in itself in legal scrutiny. But please, that's what court proceedings are there. I can also tell you the following: Even if extradition is decided today – but extradition is not at all; then I will come back later – there will be no condemnation, no criminal proceedings. There will be nothing but an attitude in this matter, and probably before the EU election, so that one cannot drag myths and mysteries into the EU election movement. But what's this about? – The HC Strache is accused of having stolen some of the melody from an Irish pop band by a band, a composer for a mandated campaign song. - That can be. But I'm telling you a great secret: HC Strache is not a music expert in composition teaching or anything else. By the way, there is probably no one in the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party who is now able to say what has actually happened. But that's the case. Only: That was an order as an election song. In the desire for extradition are already the times of action and the crime inside, and – oh wonder! – if you compare this, you can see that this is always about electoral events, in which the National Councilman HC has applied for re-election, and also as a federal party observer of a political party. And now, in this copyright dispute, the public prosecutor's office or the state court for criminal matters Vienna is requesting – because it is not a criminal proceedings, it is a copyright dispute in front of the criminal court, where it concerns a private record – whether there is a political connection or not. Do you know what the majority of this House says? – If a Member of Parliament and a Party is advocating for the election if he lets a campaign song play, if he does so at an election event, if he does all of this in his role as a politician, then it has no political connection for the majority of this House. [[Abg. Kogler: This is a distortion of the facts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! No one can be more indifferent than this statement. So if the work of the honourable Member, as some say, is only what we are doing as a single Member, and we are just saying more, well, a bank robbery, which may not fall into a political context, but where it is so obvious, the more honest way would have been the right one! And that's the one we've requested. We have requested that the political context be established, but still, as for any other citizen in Austria, without privileged consent to the extradition of prosecution. This is the normal, required and right way, and not an argument that elections, election events and competition from a national councillor for re-election would have nothing to do with politics. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's absurd! I wanted to know this here so that no mystifications or mares arise. It has shown how wrong this House can be thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13420	Mr Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Total residence time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13441	Madam President. High house! Mr Rosenkranz, you are legally wrong, for: A campaign event, or an election song that violates private copyrights, is no connection with the work as a Member of Parliament in this House. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Their variant would mean a free letter for all infringements of law, for all crimes at election events, if only one Member is present. And that can't be it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also uneven when, for example, an election of the song is sung by an advertising politician who wants to come to the National Council. He's being persecuted?- Oh, my God! But because he's a random MP, he's not being persecuted?- Oh, my God! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Mr Rosenkranz, it is not right what you are saying! There is no political link in a copyright infringement – and this is a criminally relevant act – at an election. Therefore, the persecution is justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13505	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for any final word. We now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 127 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna, 043 HV18/14a, for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachewegen of the suspicion of a criminal act according to § 91 UrhG is in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachebe.’ I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[16:26:37]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13554	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Podgorschek, Mag. Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine political responsibility in connection with the activities relating to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13774	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 GOG is the speaking time per speaker for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kogler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13801	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is the eighteenth request for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the occurrence of the Hypo Alpe Adria. [[Abg. Head speaks to Abg. Walter Rosenkranz over the series of seats.]] The President-in-Office is very excited. Mr President-in-Office, there are more spectacular things for which you could be involved, namely, to expect your consent to As regards the eighteenth request for parliamentary examination of the largest financial crime in the Second Republic, from 2000 onwards. For those who watch through live stream or on ORF III, I would like to say here in stone and clear terms: It is always deliberately spreading the untruth here! The right thing is: This request is the most comprehensive. It is minutely prepared, is legally waterproof and wants to investigate the events from the year 2000, starting in Carinthia, where Dr. Jörg Haider is sure to have expanded a provincial bank into a Mafia institute. The whole thing was then made possible under red and black accompanying protection at all. And at the end, since 2008 and 2009, a red and black German government has organized relief aid for those who want to have their money repayable as investors. That is the basic position in this problem! But how does all of this relate to the budget? – We have the second day of budget consultation. Yesterday we had the “mountain preaching” by Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, and today we have the debate of Members. The majority of us will see – and even those ladies and gentlemen who sit here in the seats of the members of the government; unfortunately, I am still allowed to say so – that there can be no trace of a trend change. [[Abg. Head still talks with Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Please, Madam President, perhaps you can draw your colleagues from the Bureau to the point of view that he should listen here. [[Abg. The conversation's broken down in the head.]] - Thank you. It is true that the trend changeover has not only failed in budgetary development, but has rather accelerated a wrong development, and it is important for this to be the hypo-financial debacle. You won't take that away! It is true that even without hypo-debakel, one could and should have initiated a lot of reforms – we have already discussed this today – only: to discuss away that this does not have a big impact, no one has dared to do so anyway. Propos Trends: It would be good if you were to turn to a trend in your vote on these necessary parliamentary investigations. Even though there will not be a majority again today, we know that the pressure to negotiate – first of all the public pressure, then the pressure to negotiate – leads to the fact that behind the scenes already – and this is also a message to the outside – all preparations are under way, that we will decide to do parliamentary investigations in any way at the latest in the autumn and that the investigations can be started this year. That's as good as it is! The question is why you are still voting against it. The request will not be made much better. They can then add something in the negotiations, we will not defend ourselves there. You have more insight into the possible shortcomings that we will have to clarify. But this trend change would be announced – better today than in July or September! You're left with it. The message is: In autumn we will have the Committee of Inquiry anyway, and before Christmas we will start the investigations. Why is this so important, now in view of the budget debate, so that we can come back to the situation? – We now have the Committee of Inquiry, and so on Madam President, I would like to make a few points in this connection: If today both the Heads of Government stand up here and say that this was once again all the alternativeless, that is already to be examined! As early as 2009, Mr. Vice-Chancellor did not accept this. This one just falls back – a small “returner”. He spoke to the hypo in a very reasonable way here, but now he comes back and explains: That was all an alternative! – That’s exactly what you need to investigate! What impact does this have on the budget? – If one hadn’t made these serious mistakes in 2008 and 2009, then we wouldn’t have made this billion impact in this form – liabilities in Carinthia! That's what's going to be going on. We can't take anything from you right now. The representatives of the government groups cannot do this either. The opposition will now take this up again in the course of the budget debate, because unfortunately this has already been a bit down, and it should be pointed out that it would not only be superior, but also that most of the better arguments, at least supported by more and more experts, talk about not paying the creditors everything, even if there are these Carinthian arrests. What's that about? – Only so that the dimension is clear: If we were to agree on a debt cut of half-and-a-half, it's good to understand that we have to build a negotiating pressure, of course, and we should not go to the knees like this unsuspecting head of government, then it would be €6 billion, which we would no longer pay out to these investors. What have they done in the years 2004 to 2007 – precisely these years? – You have – ten years of bonds! – the Hypo Alpe-Adria enables you to raise your perverse pyramid game in the Balkans so properly! If these billions had not been given in, then they would not have had this opportunity, because normally they could not finance themselves at all. And there are new facts! Culterer said at the beginning of the week, yesterday or yesterday, at a parallel trial in Munich. That's where rabiat is going. This is the case with the Boards of the BayernLB, because they bought a scrap bank already in 2007, which our supervision always knew, but then did nothing. They're all research objects! Cultererer suddenly says that the Bayern was a terrible bank. – So, I thought I wasn’t reading right! There comes new fire into the bag every day! Marking Is that what you're going to do? That you still want to do this until autumn, that's what you don't mind. They will later be asked more about how to realize that these investigations can take so long. The days have been running; since mid-February, at the latest, the public outrage wave has been rolling – quote Fellner; I have never quoted it – as with a tsunami. But in this case, he's right. And the wave of public outrage is also correct and is justified. You'll have to ask yourself why you need so long to become smarter. It never prevents anyone from getting smarter. That's what our invitation is all about. You should take that to heart! I hope that you will soon see why these parliamentary investigations are so necessary, especially in demarcation to the government commission, which is falsely called the Griss Commission. That is why I am already saying this now because the poor Mrs. Dr. Griss has been driven into something that you are no longer right. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Minister of Justice will once again be under the protection of the Federal Chancellor. Let's play it through quickly! – This government commission may have a mission – but it is not clear! It is a Commission to investigate. We have not yet experienced this kind of intransparency in this sector. The public is not aware of what this Commission has to do. Yeah, what's that? There is a two-sided government presentation, the Council of Ministers' presentation. Put that open at last! Talking to Dr. Griss, she says: We're investigating the year 2009, a little bit ahead and a little bit after that! - Yeah, that's right. But, please, it can't be that a Commission itself gives itself the task. And without transparency, all of this is worth nothing! This applies equally to the transparency of the consent of the witnesses who are not really witnesses there and to the issue of the file. We as legislators should finally remember – no one here has ever thought about it – that the central bank and the FMA are in reality not allowed to issue any files at all. What's that supposed to be? On a call from Mr. Vice-Chancellor? By breaking the law of the supposedly so independent FMA? Yeah, what's that? The subject matter of the investigation is spread. Now we have to look into the law violations that the government is doing in the investigation – a new U-committee. That's incredible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the next subject of investigation is the investigative committee itself, the government commission. There is a member inside, a Mr. Contzen, head of the Deutsche Bank Luxembourg until the beginning of the year, who was or was a subsidiary's Supervisory Board, namely a subsidiary that holds most of the bonds, which is publicly known. And which are these? – Hypo-bonds! Oh, thank you. Another subject of investigation. This Commission is infected from the outset and nothing healthy can come out of it. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This Mr Contzen should clear the way for the investigations, otherwise nothing will come out at all. That is why we need a parliamentary inquiry. And she'll come!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13949	Mr deputies, you are going over the speaking time. The following speakers each have 5 minutes of speaking time. Mr Kai Jan Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e13980	Madam President. The FPÖ announced an hour ago, I think, about the APA that the government groups today rejected this request. We are used to this by the liberals that they do not even wait for a result before they announce the outcome, but that is, of course, a question of political culture. We know that Haider and the FPÖ have here brought a new style into the political debate, which was marked by three character traits: first, to defame political opponents; second, to use false, false preservation as an instrument; and third, to present populist and simple but nevertheless false solutions. That must have been a trademark of the FPÖ! But you also have to say – and I think you can see very well here – that in the meantime not only the FPÖ is using these three stylistics in politics, but also the Greens in this hypo debate. The first means of style: the diffamation of political opponents or experts or whatever. An example: Werner Kogler says in “Pro and Contra” on 10. February: “Liebscher ()” has made an opinion “because it would actually have been distorting competition,” namely, the OeNB, “so they have to make an opinion in order to put it just like that,” namely, the participation capital. “And now it’s called Liebscher (), the hypo () is not distressed, that is, half healthy.” [[Abg. Kogler: That was the Novotny!]] The problem is only, the lover was in retirement for months and not in OeNB anymore. But I defame opponents in the fight, once tossing with Gatsch, saying something, there will be something going on – a styling agent that the FPÖ has introduced to the government. Werner Kogler put it on the 10th. ==References== [[Abg. Kogler: Let's take a look at this!]] But it doesn't stay there. Also the second styling agent to use false retention is used. [[The speaker presents a photo of the speaker's desk, the Abg. Kogler in the show “Pro and Contra”, holding a blackened paper in the camera.]] On the same day in the same show – here you can see a screenshot of this scene – he holds a note in height and says: These are OeNB's file blackouts. “These were the central bank assets” to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which were “all blackened more.” - Werner Kogler on 10. ==References====External links== The note he holds up is not from the OeNB and not to the Hypo Alpe-Adria! - Wrong hold! What we only knew about the FPÖ is a stylistic agent Werner Kogler uses here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] But it's not over yet. Next example: ==References== In February 2014, Werner Kogler said about OTS that the OeNB had been pressured by politics. This can be clearly demonstrated by an e-mail transport. We've read the e-mails. Much can be proved from this, but not even with the greatest imagination of any political pressure. [[Abg. Brosz: We will have to investigate that!]] That's the style that we knew about television discussions, where some of Haider's stuff was kept in the camera, and if you read it the next day, you've come up with nothing of what was claimed to be left. This is the style that Werner Kogler brings into the hypo debate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] And the last thing about the third stylistic product, the simple populist solutions that have nothing to do with reality – for example, if it is said that insolvency would have been the best. I'll bring you a quote, which means: The Federal Government is invited to “make its own Bad Bank law as soon as possible so that the bad assets of the not-stated Carinthian Hypo Alpe Adria Bank can be reduced as tax-saving as possible”. Who's this quote of? – From Werner Kogler himself, not even a year ago! [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Call the SPÖ:Wendhals!]] The question of emergency nationalization and Bad Bank is here. At the time, not even a year ago, what the government is doing was the best solution – now it should be the worst. About an investigation committee, we have always said, we can talk when the risks to the bank are over when the daughters are sold. I ask you to: Turn away from the sheltering of the Greens! Come where Holub and other honest greens are, that is to say, an honest, honest policy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14124	Next speaker: Mr August Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14148	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, what has now been shown is exactly the style that is being brought to us here. It is not an objective preparation of this matter, not a clarification of political responsibility. [[Objection to FPÖ and Greens.]] It's about slandering, defaming. This is your true background if you make a request to set up an investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Hypo-desaster is a Carinthian criminal case. I would like to say that again. [[Abg. Kogler: Ah!]] – Not “ah”, that’s exactly how it is! – And therefore, the work-up must be carried out primarily in Carinthia. [[Abg. Darmann: The ÖVP has the country Carinthia all the time! Shame!]] There have been two committees of inquiry, there are over 100 criminal proceedings that have been initiated, 300 000 file pages... [[Abg. Darmann: 18 times you blocked the investigation committee!]] You don't need to talk about that, Mr. Darmann. You've always moved out in the Carinthian Landtag when a re-election request has been made. So: Whoever is sitting in the glasshouse is not supposed to throw stones, Mr Darmann! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Darmann.]] Because of the Carinthian FPÖ we even have this whole debakel! That's the truth you have to tell people! And then you're the one who's most excited! Only because of Carinthia and because of the FPÖ in Carinthia do we have this disaster to achieve! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, first of all: Preparation in Carinthia, two committees of inquiry, 16 current convictions, 15 charges, against 44 others is currently being determined. Secondly, nobody talks about it at all; Mr Krainer spoke gratefully –: It's also about the solution for the hypo! And, Mr Kogler, you have changed your mind several times in this area. Last year it was the Bad Bank, the establishment solution. Now it's something else. What is the point, Mr Kogler? We have a model presented by the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance, the GmbH model, which also ensures the participation of the subordinate believers, Bavaria and, of course, also of the country of Carinthia. And that's why this model will also exist. I am curious if you will then give this your consent, Mr Kogler. A year ago you at least required a similar model. The third point: We don't hide anything, and we don't cover anything, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the Griss Commission has also been set up by the government. The former OGH president will probably be able to do an independent work on this hypo-deaster. It also has access to the relevant files. Fourth: Whether there is still a committee of inquiry after the Griss Commission, this can only be assessed if the results of this Commission are available. This is awaiting us, ladies and gentlemen. And the last point I would like to make here: Regardless of the hypo discussion, we have agreed that the Rules of Procedure for the Investigation Committee should be re-established. There has been a meeting of this working group today. It is about the objective objective clarification of political responsibility. What has just happened is going in a completely different direction. Negotiations in this area are in progress. Yes, we are ready to conduct these negotiations. But it is about the fact that the committees can no longer be held in the future as they have been done in the past – with a tribunal character that has nothing to do with political material reconnaissance, ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, we will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14248	Next speaker: Mr Elmar Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14289	Madam President. [[Call the SPÖ: Hellseeher!]] No matter what, you can scream as much as you want, because today it's the 18. Let us make a request to set up a committee of inquiry. And to stay at the government's and vice chancellor's term, you make the arsonists the wall by saying no to the Enlightenment! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Mr Krainer! Is it diffamation when one asks for a committee and wants to inform? – From my point of view: No, no, no, Is it wrong to want a committee of inquiry? - No! And are it false precepts, as you blame Mr Kogler, when he presents the FMA's blackened records and not the OeNB's? They were from the FMA, just so by the way. Mr Wöinger! The louder you scream – I've always been able to do that as a little child – the more you're wrong. And you've been yelling more than enough. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And again: It's not a free crime! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Even if I repeat it again and again: The liabilities were entered in Kärnten von ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ – we never disputed. [[Call to the ÖVP:And who put the head of state?]] Just so by the way, and I think that's what least of you know: The country of Vorarlberg once agreed to assume liabilities which were higher in relation to the budget than those that took over the country of Carinthia for its own hypo. It's been over. But something is not quite clear either. Secondly, it's clear, I repeat it again and again: It was an emergency nationalization which is not comprehensible, and it has been carried out exclusively by red and black. That's clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is clear whether the financial market supervision that OeNB et cetera failed. And I don't think they're in the dark circle of the FPÖ, but in that of black-red. Furthermore, these years of inactivity. I don't need to add that in detail. I mention only ex-Secretary of State Ditz, who has resigned, and so on. In the years 2009 to 2013 – who was responsible? - Black-red. The solution that has now been reached, not with the involvement of creditors, but exclusively at the expense of taxpayers. Who's responsible? - Black red. And that has already been recognized by the federal states. It has been used for an investigation committee of the Styrian Landtag, it has committed itself to the Vorarlberger Landtag and now also, ladies and gentlemen, the Burgenlander Landtag. There's even a press release that says: “The resolution to the Federal Government and the National Council had been initiated by SPÖ together with the Greens, said SPÖ-Klubobmann Christian Illedits.” Well, congratulations, the countries have now recognized that this needs to be clarified. And I don't know why these government parties are still walling here. We can make the decision, we can resolve this in the autumn. The population has a right to truth and to the information of actual events. You will see that the Committee will come sooner or later. And you can't blame the Kogler, me, or anyone else for trying to hide something there.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14363	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14384	Thank you, Madam President. – Mr Jan Krainer! If you look out here, then should You may try to remember a little more precisely what was really going on in the Banking Investigation Committee, in view of the blackened files. Let's remember, and remember me! What was it like? [[Abg. Krainer: I can remember exactly!]] The documents of the Austrian National Bank were usually delivered by the FMA. At the beginning, that was certainly the case. And that there have been numerous blackened files, you know just as well as we and all the others who have participated in this Banking Investigation Committee. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] And who was it, Mr Krainer, who turned off the Banking Investigation Committee, where the hypo was already an important subject of investigation? Who was it, Mr. Arbitrator? Your group has been there, and it was the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, exactly at that time when it became interesting. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] So we will not continue with such accusations, Mr Krainer and Mr CoR, but with what we need – and there is no way to go, even if Mr Wöginger proclaims here loud, he will not agree – that is simply and simply a committee of inquiry. And the sooner he comes, the better it is. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Why do we need this committee of inquiry? – Yesterday we heard the Minister of Finance who spoke of a mountain that was too much, the debt mountain. And who did not raise this mountain of debt? – It was the Finance Minister, it was this government when it made a decision in favour of setting up a mining company – by the way, with a very, very big delay, because the so-called emergency stateization without need has already taken place in 2009. And since then, the procedure has been postponed. At some point a task force has been set up, which has provided any report. In this task force, however, those who were deeply involved in the creation of this entire debacle were actually sitting: the FMA, the financial market supervision, also Mr Liebscher, who was once again in the OeNB. The OeNB has had a certain role in the role of banking supervision, I believe. And in the eyes of bank supervision, this debacle was created in Carinthia, not only but also. These stakeholders in the Task Force have now submitted a report a few weeks ago that the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Chancellor have taken the opportunity to make a decision on a decommissioning company. We know the budgetary consequences: Increase in government debt by 5.5 percentage points, an additional increase in the Maastricht deficit of around €4 billion, in addition to that €4.8 billion for the hypo that has already been permanently lost. [[Abg. Krainer: 3,3!]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP that people are really tired of it, people are urgently expecting to be informed on this matter. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] People no longer see why they have to pay a great deal of tax for this biggest financial debacle in the Second Republic, why expenditure has to be reduced, and why they even have to give up on a tax reduction that has long been due to them. This decision in favour of a mining company has, of course, been a very opaque decision. Because what did the Hypo Task Force do with its representatives? – You have not even seriously tested the insolvency solution. And that's a big accusation I can't save this task force. What happened here was not a professional decision at Weitem. That did not meet professional standards. In Germany and elsewhere, such processes are carried out quite differently. There is no use of death penalty arguments such as the risk premiums for public debt will rise or the nursing homes in Carinthia need to be closed, and so on. No, such arguments are not needed, but risk-based options are examined and decisions are presented transparently. And then it's done. With us only Murks is operated, and this Murks has to be dealt with urgently – by a committee of inquiry! The sooner, the better!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14484	I call Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14511	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to let go of the impression that many SPÖ and ÖVP representatives are actually coming from the construction industry. Why else is so walled and emphasized on the issue of the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry! I really wonder more and more: What do you have to hide? [[Abg. Fekter: Don't diffame an entire industry!]] What are you afraid of? What's wrong with this construction site? What bodies did you hide in the basement? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It must be in the sense of each government party that the responsibility for the hypopleite will be clarified without delay. So please turn on your flashlights and bring light into this great dark! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Make You have this construction site for your project, please! Or are you afraid something could fall on your head? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Are you afraid something could fall on your head? Every taxpayer in this country has deserved to be informed here. Why the SPÖ and the ÖVP make the wall here even longer, no one understands. This has often been addressed enough today. The facts have also often been addressed enough. Sale Don't you fool people in this country! They're not stupid. People are not stupid. Stop walling, stop emphasizing! Public pressure will not weaken, on the contrary: He'll get stronger, much stronger. Why? - Because the base is formed. Mr Podgorschek has already said it today: The Vorarlberger Landtag requested the application and unanimously requested the setting up of an investigation committee. Then the Steirers followed up and filed a corresponding request. Afterwards, a request for urgency was submitted in the Kärntner Landtag. And yesterday – and I am particularly pleased, of course, as a proud Burgenländer – the Burgenland colleagues in the Landtag called for a U-committee, on the initiative of the SPÖ, supported by the Greens. Bravo! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] What do you want, please, more? What still has to happen so that you can finally jump over your shadows and finally take into account the desire of the days of the countryside and the desire of people for full political information in that country? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why, Mr Rädler, I am really excited about how those representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP from Vorarlberg, from Carinthia, from Styria and from Burgenland will vote here and today. How's good lemmings? Or is it self-evident, like an independent representative? However, one thing should not be forgotten by the honourable Members in their decision-making: Don't forget where you're from! Don't forget which people you represent! Forget Don't ask who you owe it to, that you have such a cozy chair here in the House! [[Intercom calls at Team Stronach, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] And don't forget your base and forget about it. You don't have your roots! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS as well as representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] What you can forget, however, dear construction workers from SPÖ and ÖVP, is this blockade policy of wall and concrete. That's not how you're going to put this construction site on track. I'm sorry, it won't work. Live up to the free mandate and today agree to the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Why? Why, Mr. Rädler? – Because it would be a star hour of living parliamentaryism. You too can get up! And it would give many people in Austria at least a shot of confidence in politics and politics. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14594	I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14615	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! The personal accusations which we have now partially heard in this short debate are certainly not possible. We will not continue to do so, so that we will not create any information. What is permissible is criticism, criticism in the matter. And I would also like to practice this criticism in the matter. I would like to say a little more about what I have already said in the budget speech in the morning, namely the question of how the new budget deals with the risks and losses of Hypo Alpe-Adria. We have all heard, now we are going to make a pure table and the deficit is so high, so it looks so gloomy about the government budget, because of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, because this is finally in the budget. We've been looking at: Is it really inside? And we were quite surprised that we could not find this €4 billion, which should have now been set for 2014. We have looked at the ‘financial market stability’ issue, because it should be in there. We have still not been able to believe it and call the Ministry of Finance and have said: Dear experts, explain to us, where are the 4 billion €? – They have not been able to explain this to us or at least have not been able to explain it in such a way that we would have understood it. [[Call at the ÖVP:Eben!]] The figures are relatively clear. If you look at the UG 46, you see, there are 1.7 billion € set in 2014, then a few more amounts, a total of 2.7 billion € by the year 2017, not for the mortgage, but 2.7 billion € for all banks. That's what I'm asking myself: Where's the provision here? [[Abg. Fekter: You just don't know yourself! You have to look at the strategy report!]] And it doesn't look better. It's a little down in the budget discussion now, but we now have the hypo balance on the table in 2013. And if you are here in the Annual Report Mrs. Minister a.D.! Yes, we can also look at the strategy report. [[Calls of the Abg. Fekter.]] Should I read to you from the Strategy Report? – There you read on page 90: For banks, €1.7 billion are budgeted in 2014. [[Abg. Fekter: On page 102 you have to look up!]] They like to claim the opposite. [[Abg. Auer: Page 102!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Turn around!]] What is now to be read in this Annual Report, the 2013 Report of Hypo Alpe-Adria, does not make things any better; it actually looks even darker. We had to record a record loss, 2.7 billion € have been written off. And in this Annual Report – if you want to read it again – it says that this is not the end of the flag rod, but when selling the South-East Europe network, there are further losses to be expected, further depreciations. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Devaluations must not be excluded either! These are not losses yet!]] Other losses cannot be excluded, and there are high uncertainties about the recovery of credit collateral. In other words, these €2.7 billion are now in the depreciation that has been made for 2013, but the 2013 Annual Report itself says inside: That's not the end of the flag rod. There's more to it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: In this formulation?]] And you can't see anything in the budget. That's again – and this criticism in the matter you have to let go – camouflage and tricks what you're doing here. You haven't done it before, namely to take care of the Hypo Alpe-Adria budget, and you won't do it again now. If you say that there is the Committee on Government – I am entirely of the opinion of Mr Kogler: you should not be called a Commission of Crisis, but a Commission of the Government – then this is an institutionalized process behind closed doors. We don't know the order. There are no legal bases and transparency from the beginning to the end. Paper template, unknown how to do this. Testimonies behind closed doors. It's not known. Such a reprocessing is certainly not sufficient. As a Parliament, we will not be able to do so. The citizens of this country will not be allowed to do so. I therefore call on the last of all to appeal to the citizens of this country: Sign the petition! 140,000 have already done that. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Look at Parliament's homepage! Only through this pressure from the people together with the opposition parties will we create the establishment of this hypo-examination committee. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Such a one is urgently needed in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14748	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Podgorschek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of an investigation committee. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. - That's not the majority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Calls and calls.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The session is not yet over, and I would ask for more attention. Mr Matznetter, please! Thank you. [[17:09:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-04-30-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00023_d7e14803	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 412/A to 419/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 1370/J to 1446/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 5.09 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
