ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e6542	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 30. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament ==References====External links== Meeting of 21, 22 and 23. ==References====External links== Meeting of 23. In May 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Bayr, Auer, Dr. Bösch, Kunasek, Ing. Schellenbacher, Mag. Schrangl and Vilimsky. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e6573	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter will be represented by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner until the afternoon. I announce that the current hour will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 10.15. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full time, with that part of the meeting going beyond 7.50 p.m., being sent forward from 23.30 a.m. [[09:06:36]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e6614	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Systematic injustice in the Austrian pension system’ Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is the first to speak. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e6641	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Today we make pensions the theme of the current hour. We want to report and discuss the systematic injustice that grows in this area. There are many reasons why we choose this topic. The main reason is: In addition to education, which is a matter of heart for us NEOS, the topic of single budget and generation-oriented social systems is our very central issue for the next few years and decades. We will not miss out on this, and we cannot ignore it either because the government, because SPÖ and ÖVP clearly lack the courage to make determined and determined structural reforms. [[Abg. Schönegger: He was also more spicy!]] We can't leave it out because we have to keep up with it, because nothing else happens. We will see this this afternoon on the occasion of the discussion on special pensions and pension privileges. If there had not been the pressure of the public, the pressure of NEOS, the pressure of the Greens and other opposition parties, nothing would have happened here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] [[Abg. Kickl: For 30 years this has been the FPÖ!]] We will not miss out because the ÖVP and the SPÖ are not willing to change something. We are still coming to a very special anniversary today, namely 10 000 days of ÖVP in the government. That's actually a tragedy. They have not been able to build a single-fit and generation-friendly budget for 10 000 days. We won't miss the pension theme because you're now putting the boy in debt of €243 billion. On the visitor gallery, young people, a school class, I assume: 243 billion euros of debt will be passed on to the boys, and we lack air to breathe in areas in which we urgently need to invest – future areas such as education. We will not miss the pension area because we are NEOS the voice tube of the boys and because you, dear SPÖ and dear ÖVP, are piped to the boys and say that they are not relevant to you for election success and therefore the concerns of the boys are not particularly important to you either. We will not miss the pension area because we want to further increase NEOS' small pensions. You're gonna sing the song again that we're the pension robbers. This will bring you good to the people: I stand at the Interspar, I'm going to “surpass” from behind, and then there are two twists, first of all, that we are church eaters – twists by the ÖVP – and second, that we are pension robbers – twists from the SPÖ – and of course both are not true, both are not true, but we want to continue to raise the small pensions, because that's only fair. [[Abg. Wheeler: What is true!]] We want to adapt them to inflation, but we are not willing to cover the privilege stage that has grown for decades, and we are not willing to enter the possessors' club. We NEOS will not solve membership, we will not. [[Abg. Schwentner: But you agree!]] We will fight as the boy's voice pipe for the concerns of the next generations. We NEOS will not miss out on the pension issue because we do not accept what the credo of this government is. Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chanzler, Mr Sozialminister, your credo is: More than a few billion euros more debts at the expense of the next generation, than to cut the privileges of one's own clients; rather a few billion euros more debts at the expense of the young generation than genuinely determined reforms! Where are we in the pension area, ladies and gentlemen? – We see the pension subsidies as very blatant in the 2014/2015 result proposal. They will rise by €470 million in 2014. In 2015, we will take over another €485 million, and we will thus already exceed the magic limit of €10 billion in 2014. For comparison only: 10 billion € are blatantly more money than we are willing to take over for 1.1 million students in this country. We are not prepared to take control of more or just as much for the whole area of education as for pension subsidies. But now you have to know that all of us sitting here – and also your parents – are, of course, paying into pension funds. [[direction Visitor Gallery]] That is, we pay slightly for the pension funds and pension contributions, and then we shoot out of the tax pot even more than we do for the education sector. It is also reluctant to take more control of official pensions, as the 2014 payouts rise by €360 million, and they rise again by €300 million in 2015. We'll get over €9 billion in 2015. That is, if we count officials' pensions and pension subsidies together, then we have €19 billion, which we take on board for the topic of pension. – 19 billion €! This is an increase of currently 25 percent. ==References== We put a quarter of the budget we have as a government on the side and say: This is for pensions – a quarter! – and this share increases from 25 percent to 28 percent by 2018. So this is totally out of the row. And you sit next to it and say you're going to monitor it, Minister Hundstorfer, where you can't even agree on pension monitoring with the ÖVP and that's why you have to set up this monitoring now. Of course, it's a head-in-the-sand stick, as we've seen at the hypo, as we've seen in many other areas, where you'd rather take control of tax money than solve the topics really forward-looking. The share of GDP will rise from 11.3 percent to 14.6 percent by 2050. In other words, the long-term forecast is beyond the green area. It'll take the air to breathe, you know that. For comparison: If I say over €19 billion for pensions, then we must resist how much we spend for about 300 000 students in Austria, for colleges and universities. That's €3.7 billion! That is to say, all universities, colleges and cetera we could allow more than five times in the pension budget! We could close all universities and colleges of this country for five years and say 300 000 young people: Stay at home, unfortunately we don't have the money! to finance one year's pension grants and civil servants' pension payments. Of course, these relations are not right! Mr Minister, I know you're going to report, of course, everything is going well, there are no problems, we have everything in hand. [[Abg. Wheeler: The NEOS, yes, Pastafari!]] It's not the NEOS alone who say something's wrong. If you look at the opinions of experts, you will see that all of them cover up with our material analyses. Take, for example, the Bertelsmann Foundation: It says that we have a stable of reform, especially in the case of pensions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Take the OECD study here: The OECD says that Austria is leading expenditure on pensions to Italy and France. However, the bad news is: France and Italy get under control of the dynamics, Austria does not get under control, and we will be world leaders in pension expenditure in 2020. The EU Commission also clearly states in the White Paper or in the Agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions and pensions: Austria needs reform in the sense of the boys. We need reform, and that is why we need to come up with a firm solution. We NEOS have also said how it is. There's a lot to look away from. We look at Sweden: Introduction of the Flexi-Pensionsmodel, average retirement age 64 years – with us 58 years. Every year at the age of entry, we have a billion. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's not true!]] We have looked for Italy: Implementation of a courageous pension reform. Some laugh at the Italians, but they have managed, for example, to align the age of women's pensions with that of men. That's important. Let us put women's policies into practice in other areas that really help women! For example, the reduction in the tax rate would be very important. Of course, we also demand longer working hours. If we do not already make a flexi-pension model, we are bravely introducing a pension automaticism like many other states! I know there are many sympathizers in the ÖVP, but only under four eyes. As soon as it goes to the public, they no longer have the determination and courage. We have also shown how it can be done in this House, together, just as Sweden and other countries have done. We have requested a Committee on Pensions to be consulted in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We can invite international experts, that is our urgent wish. Let's do it! Get out of the sand with your head! Let's look at the challenges! This challenge says: Don't rob us of the future! That's what these young people say up there don't rob us of the future! [[direction Visitor Gallery]] All international experts say: If Austria wants to have a future-looking, single-fit and generation-friendly budget, then the key to this is the reform of pensions. So: Vamos! Let's get it started!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e6780	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e6801	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, if you are serious about what you have said – and I assume so – then you agree today, because this is another step towards reforming and changing something in this country. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] That's where you can agree, and then you can prove whether you're really talking for the youth. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Cementing of privileges!]] It's not about cementing privileges at all. Read the draft, then you know what is cemented and what is not cemented, that is once point one! Point two: If you really want to deal with matter, you should see that we have made changes and made changes since 1997 in the ASVG. [[Abg. Kickl: You can't be so proud, otherwise the TOP 1 would be on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Strolz: In the ASVG, however, there is nothing about the special pensions!]] If you were to deal with matter, you would also need to know that there is no payment procedure for officials, but that 150 years ago it was decided in the monarchy that the officials would be paid out of the budget and that the civil servants' pensions would also be paid out of the budget. [[Abg. Stroll: Ah go, that's polemik!]] If you were to deal with matter, you wouldn't! – you should know that we are in the public service on the way to the 40-year calculation, as in the ASVG. [[Call the FPÖ:It’s a long way!]] Then you would also have to know that there are only more than 7 000 federal officials in the Uralt system, and then you would also have to know that there are 54 000 federal officials who know the word “official pension” only more about hearing, because they are in the ASVG, and that since 2005 staff are only taken up after the APG; then you should also know that everyone else is in the transition, that now for example the conversion period is 14 years; and then you would also have to know that the officials who are already in retirement are paying 270 million pension insurance contributions, because that is the only group that was decided in 1997 – in order to meet the youth – that they are making a pension contribution. This pension contribution represents an annual amount of € 270 million for the federal government. [[Abg. Stroll: Versus 10 billion!]] – Yes, that’s 10 billion, because there are these people, and they just make a contribution with this pension contribution. [[Abg. Strolz: But a uniform system, Minister! A uniform system!]] The officials are the only professional group in our country who still pays a little extra out of their pension. And you have to take note of that, I think. You should read that too. The uniform system, Mr Strolz, was adopted in this House in 2003. You're a little late with your ideas, but it's the same with NEOS. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] You must note that we are in the transitional phase. [[Abg. Stroll: That's the problem!]] This transition phase is not easy, the transition phase is complicated, but this transition phase is taking place because this House decided in 2003 that we will be in the ASVG in so many years. That's what it's all about! They always make allegations as to the pension grant in the ASVG. Let us take a look at how the 10 billion are put together! This country decided in 1945, then 1956 as part of the ASVG introduction at that time, that there was a minimum pension. We want a minimum pension with the compensation allowance. We are one of the few countries that do not regulate this minimum pension on social assistance, as is the case in the Federal Republic of Germany or in other countries, but rather we regulate this minimum pension on pension rights. This results in the small amount of € 1 billion per year. We could get rid of this tomorrow. Then people would have to go to social assistance and get the difference there. [[Abg. Stroll: This is not our topic!]] But this is what it is about when you talk about costs! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Here the federal government relieves the countries. At that time, in 1956, it was decided that we would do so. Another point is: We have decided not to make rehabilitation about health insurance, as is the case in the entire Scandinavian region, so we talk about pensions very differently there, but rehabilitation is a topic of pension insurance for us. As a result, I have to note that I have another billion in the federal grant, which is only intended for rehabilitation. [[Abg. Stroll: This is not our topic!]] This is what we are talking about when we talk about costs. We have also decided that we will relieve the people who are in retirement of the health insurance contribution. We'll relieve them! [[Abg. Pendl: You have to understand!]] This relief in the case of health insurance costs. That's of 10 billion € 1.4 billion. This is nothing but the grant, the missing service provider's contribution, if you want, because the pensioner pays an increased health insurance contribution to the employee. But someone has to pay the difference. It was decided that does the state. As a result, we have of 10 billion € 1.4 billion, which are nothing but health insurance contributions, the difference payment for pensioners. That's how I could continue to present this. We have also decided that there are child rearing times. This one's got to pay someone too. We have also decided that there are times of presence and civil service, which are charged a hundred percent of the pension. Someone's got to pay for it. Then you come when you count everything back and forth on an amount that is the true amount. Instead of 10 billion, it's only 4 billion at a time. 4 billion are the real amount to ensure pension payments at the guaranteed level. That's what really remains. What really remains of the €10 billion is €4 billion, which is necessary to ensure those who are in retirement or are going to take care of what they have paid. The fact that we still have different grant levels within the systems is only mentioned on the verge. This is partly due to the logic that a group of us can never achieve 100 percent of what they pay in pensions, because there are already more people in the pension as active, which is the professional group of those in the agricultural sector. As a result, I would also ask you to look at what has been changed here in the ASVG in recent years, starting from 1997 to the previous year. For example, we have the situation that if someone goes into corridor board and does this relatively unskillably, I say this very consciously now, his corridor board is reduced, then his corridor board would be 25 percent lower compared to that if he stayed up to 65. [[Abg. Stroll: This is the curve, anyway, from 25 to 28 percent!]] We've already gotten involved. It's not like there's not been an intrusion. This is, of course, strongly criticised by the political competitor. Again: You need to see the curve together: The civil servants' pensions are going down, which lasts until 2050, 2050. [[Abg. Stroll: That's up!]] Sure, there's nothing fresh about it. And if nothing is fresh, it can't rise. That's a simple bill. In the ministry which I am currently allowed to represent, for example, there has been the last Pragmatization in 1999! That was 15 years ago. The fact that those who had already been pragmatized are here is just like that. We can play this in every resort now, and in every resort there is a different number. In fact, there are only three areas where it is really pragmatized, but also in the context of the changed pension situation. The interior area pragmatizes young politicians, but they have the ASVG as a basis and not an official pension right, so that we also know it. We're in the transition. This transition must be dealt with, yes. [[Abg. Stroll: Half a century of transition!]] This is not a transition of half a century, but it is a transition of 40 years. [[Cheerfulness and condolences of the Abg. Stroll.]] Now I've all mixed you up a little bit. That was the purpose and purpose of the action. [[Call the FPÖ:Bingo!]] Bingo! Mr Strolz, why did I do this so nonchalant now? Half a century, 40 years – do you know how some companies would be happy if they had in the relationship bill about this increase in sales from 40 to 50? Nice side by side. The fact is, we're on a good path in the transition. And another milestone to deal with this transition is the Special Pension Act, which is still on the agenda today. And I can only invite you all to join us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7071	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 9 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7095	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, you said that you were accused of being a pension robber at Interspar, and you said that you were not. As part of the preparation for today's session, I also looked at your programme, the Pensions Selection Programme, and tried to consider what someone gets when he chooses NEOS. What's he getting out of here? In the first point, you ask for information justice – something we, I think, have now done with the pension account at least once to the extent that what you want is fulfilled, namely that someone knows what he has to expect and how it increases. The first messages are now outside. I can tell you, I was with the hairdresser on Saturday. My hairdresser, with full passion, explained to his customers that he had received the pension note. He was very proud of how much he gets from his work as an employee and self-employed person, what he paid, how it looks when he continues to work, and in what a happy position he is that he could save all of this because he was employed first, is second self-employed and the business goes well. That is, he approached this matter with a very positive attitude. But then write in the hypothesis that if the pensions and the subsidies continue to rise and the whole is no longer manageable, you can only expect to get a maximum of 50 percent of the last salary in the pension. As a solution, you suggest additional pensions. That is, everyone finances themselves their own reckoning high and say that a maximum of 50 percent are to be reached and you need a private supplementary pension, and then write that – you are small with an N, it is probably written up with two N – at present only 300 € of their income before taxes can be used to save additional pensions and that this is, of course, much too low while in Germany it is much higher. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] That is to say, in this case, man, mainly the employer, I say now in this model of future security, paying €300 a year for the employee. The generali – this should not be an advertisement now, but I've chosen it now – writes that the employer should do this instead of an increase in wages. The employer says he pays this kind of instead of a wage increase. How long? - Forever? How do I do that? How does that work? The employee can pay 25 € per month. There we are powerful citizens. This also brings the employer something, because it is tax-free and tax-reducing. That is, if it comes as you imagine it, with even higher contributions, then employers save a lot of money. Although workers are given a strong wage increase, this is, of course, gone away, or a lower wage increase, but they may get money for it, provided the stock markets are kept and nothing else happens. We all remember the question of private pension provision. There is the state pension that I now have, with a relative security, a levy system and no capitalised system, clearly prefers to what you offer here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You say if you want to expect to be after 65. Year of life 500 € Additional board gets until you die, then according to the calculations I have from your homepage, you need about 245 000 €, if you die in time, I add now. They say it will be more, however, because we get older, and that is not saving from one day to the next. - That's right. I might have done a milkmaid bill now. I have taken your 245 000 €, have assumed the ideal case, someone is 40 years in employment, and have divided it by 40 and then by 12 to find out what someone has to pay in the month, so that he may get 500 € until he dies. The result of the division is that someone has to pay 510 € per month. Now show me the one who can afford this! - That's the second. They are also currently counting on education costs against pension costs, i.e. a generation conflict at a different level. You say today's pensioners – that's one of your points – should actively contribute to ensuring this pension system remains secure. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] Yeah, yeah, but the higher pensions, that's a nice example. They say: ‘Pensionists should contribute to the rehabilitation of the AKTIV pension system.’ I'm just saying it! In other words, for pensions above the ASVG maximum pension, there is no balance of inflation. How long? - Forever? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Oh, no, but that kind of, exactly. Between the average pension and the maximum pension, only half of the inflation, including the full payment of inflation. – That is to say, 15 percent off. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is, what you are planning, is very likely to be active pension robbery and causes a generation conflict on a different level.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7169	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7190	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Strolz, one thing should be said at the beginning: From your point of view, it is good and right that you discuss the pension system. I understand. That's what we do in the government. But it should not be given the picture that we have a pension system that threatens to fail tomorrow. That is not the case! We have a system that has been built up for over 60 years, where there is a social network for those who are weaker, who have not been able to pay contributions that allows them to get a pension from which they can live. I am talking about the compensation beneficiaries, who – you should also say – have to get over the rounds with € 850. That means we're standing for that. That is also necessary. 240 000 people in Austria receive a compensation allowance because the pension is lower. And we've got a system that's financed. In other words, the employees pay one and those who are in retirement receive their pension paid. The basis is the amount of the amounts paid. And that's a good system. This would like to be borne in mind: That is a good system as a whole, and we want to maintain it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What we don't want, ladies and gentlemen, because it's always going to be like this, is to introduce a kind of folk board. This is not what we want, but we want a net for socially weaker but a system financed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is necessary, and this must be maintained. And the second is the following: Mr Strolz, you are going out and are doing so – you are in Parliament for half a year now, so I understand that you may not have heard everything in the past – as if we had done nothing in the past. We have repeatedly implemented pension reforms, which were also necessary, the largest in a different government constellation, then with the FPÖ. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] And this was a pension reform, which I believe is really also aimed at the future, which secures pensions in a sustainable way. And that was not only for all of our joy, we know from the discussions then, but it is necessary. We have longer calculations. I have to say to what you have to say about the officials here: That's just not true! That's just not true! This is a kind of bashing towards the public service, ladies and gentlemen, that is not all right. [[Abg. Pendl: That's it!]] With pension harmonisation in 2003/2004, we have also launched a 40-year calculation in this area, ladies and gentlemen. And that's not all right, here's a bashing against the officials. Their pension system is fully harmonised, and they have contributed a lot to the pension system in recent reforms and in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. This should also be mentioned in this context. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll keeps a taferl with the inscription “Do not vote” in height.]] You need this Taferl more and more, Mr Strolz. Is that what you're saying? [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] More and more often you need this Taferl, and this is also a sign of weakness in your party, which is increasing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have also introduced changes in the area of early pensions, because this is important. We must keep in mind the actual age of entry, this is necessary, also in connection with the labour market situation, in order to see how unemployment and the employment of older people develop. It is about keeping older workers in employment. And, of course, the social partners are also required, ladies and gentlemen. We have made changes to the corridor board with insurance mathematical supplements. We have increased the retirement age by two years under the long-term insurance scheme. Mr Strolz, look at that too! In the first months of this year, the figures are declining as regards retirement under the hacker scheme and invalidity pension. They are declining, and the actual age of entry is rising. This is now 58.6 years old. It will move towards 59 years by the end of this year. This means that around 500 million more remain in the system, because less money has to be paid. Therefore: Do you also recognise these measures? Yes, we will keep in mind this development, that is also necessary. We have also known about this in the government programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] 60,1 years are in the government programme. This is one year more than the Pension Insurance Commission has indicated. That's ambitious, yes. And if you're dealing a little bit with matter – and I've been doing it for over ten years – then you'll see that we're going to be unique, single fit, future fit, as you say. Yes, because 2025 birth-like vintages, the so-called Babyboomer generation, go into retirement. That is why we have written this target value of 60,1 Jahre into the government programme, because we can prepare for this situation that is being started in 2023, 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a good system in the pension area. It needs to be adjusted and adapted over and over again, but bad talk does not do anything. In the afternoon, you will also agree to the Special Pension Act! Then we will see how seriously you really mean it with pensions in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7279	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7301	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, thanks to the contributors of today's current hour, because it is of course important to discuss the pension system, also about the injustices that are also contained in this system. Of course, you have to hold on to one thing: The pension is now the deserved wage of those people who have worked hard for a lifetime and then also worked out and earned a corresponding insurance for the evening of life. I say that this is a reward for people's living performance so that they can also spend the third part of their lives in dignity, dignity and respect, while we have to guarantee this economic security. If one then takes the situation of the Austrian pensioners in many areas – we have heard about it, more than 240 000 pensioners – then one sees these today need the compensation allowance, because they are located in the lower part of the pension and live on the poverty line. We have 3.6% of male pensioners living below the poverty line, we have over 10 percent of female pensioners who today have to live below the poverty line. These are already dramatic developments, for which we all have a responsibility somewhere. And if you experience that the pension adjustments in recent years show that the real inflation rate in 2013 was 2.8 percent, but the adjustment was only made by 1.8 percent and the inflation rate was 2.4 percent in 2014 and the adjustment was only 1.6 percent, the linear adjustment has been the same over the last ten years, a higher inflation than the pension adjustment made, then you have to say: This is a real pension loss, this is a real expropriation of pensioners! And then we have to discuss justice. This is ultimately true of those people who have worked hard for a lifetime but can afford less and less on the evening of life and often have real problems when it comes to covering their operating costs, their rental costs, their food costs, because they can no longer afford it with their pension. I say that pensioners are at risk of poverty; of course, this is also a product of the fact that the need for goods of daily life has become more expensive, dramatic price increases have taken place and has also been disproportionately higher in recent years. There is a need to counter inflation adjustment, which unfortunately is not lived in the area of pensions for years. On the other hand, we have the much debated luxury pensions. I say, well, that we have discussed this honestly, well, that a way has also been taken, where it has been recognized that these incredible luxury pensions are not to be maintained, but if one speaks of this alleged reform and if one looks closer at this alleged reform, which is to be boxed today, and if this referendum is to be implemented with random support from the Greens, then I note: There are, of course, the privilege riders in this Republic, in the field of politics, administration and the close-to-state businesses, who will continue to register a luxury pension of €9,060 in the future, in addition to the ASVG maximum pension, and therefore a total of € 170,000 will go home in the year, while once again the ASVG-pensionists – I say it quite openly – will unfortunately be sold for stupid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wonder why, when discussing justice, it is not really fair to ensure a pension system for all workers and employees, with different grades, and also a fair pension system for all. I wonder, Where are some of them more equal than they are because they are politicians and want to cover and secure their privileges? – This is not the right approach as we have imagined. And rightly today, this has also critically illuminated Professor Marin in a daily newspaper. [[Abg. Kickl: Not so down from above, Minister!]] I say that would be necessary. While most of the Austrian pensioners today receive on average a little more than €1,000 pension per month, in the future there will be the near-state privilege riders, who now receive the nine to twelve times per month. I must say already, Mr Social Minister and also Mr Finanzminister, that is what you call good, and you may not have found the necessary courage to take another necessary step. The system must be properly designed and reformed. Yes, I always – this is also our position – we have always said that an ASVG system will ultimately ensure for everyone without any privileges: That would be the right, just and the only acceptable way, and right there we must go. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As long as we do otherwise, we cannot talk about justice, which is always artificially tried, but is not lived in reality and which does not stand.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7358	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7380	Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Dear viewers! High house! Speaking of a “reförm” I find quite bold, and I also wonder where you have been for the last half year when we discussed this “reförm” quite intense. We've been negotiating these luxury pensions for half a year. I'm now talking about the special pensions you last mentioned. – Yes, they are a huge injustice that is not understandable to many people in this country at all. But I wonder how, in a step and in a wash, we can really flick what has happened over decades of sins in the pension system in a very short time. That's impossible. [[Abg. Kickl: That wouldn't have happened to the oillinger!]] That is why I would have expected you to have taken part in the work this half-year, and perhaps we would have taken one step together and perhaps even more out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We have tried to be constructive, to involve ourselves, at least to go towards a uniform system. [[Abg. Kickl: First class funeral! The government can only wish for this: such an opposition as the Greens!]] And here I am with you, Mr. Strache: We need a uniform pension system, we need justice at the pension for all, but we also need the first steps to do so. It is not possible for you to just sit down, watch, and almost begin the first row of foot-free, to scramble on what happened in the last half year. It is not possible that NEOS now call this a privilege-stalling agreement. – It is no longer a privilege, now not, at least not as much as the last decades... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Their consent means that the Privilegienstadl will be granted for another decades, which will last for years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For years nothing will change if you do not agree now. You did not participate in the discussion, you were not there when it came to negotiating something. [[Abg. Kickl: Good night! That wouldn't have happened to the oillinger!]] We started with three materials. We're now at 27 materials, we've been very intensive. I have not heard any word from you during the negotiations, Mr Kickl. No word! [[He also welcomed Greens and SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, I also think that justice and justice in old age look different. We need to look there and see how people get the so-called minimum pension. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! They ensure a first-class funeral! Don't you notice you're doing the dirty work for red and black? Such an opposition can only be desired!]] That's 250,000 people in Austria, that's a quarter of a million people. A woman who gets €830 on average – this is the average pension – will not understand why the Director-General of the Austrian National Bank gets €30 000 from the original €30 000 now only €25 000. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's an insanity, I'm quite with you! But we cannot do away with this insolence in the last decades. [[Abg. Stroll: 10,000 €!]] Maybe have You have all heard of the Austrian Constitution, perhaps you have heard that there is something like fundamental rights, such as the right to property, such as protection of trust, and we are talking about contracts that have been concluded in recent years. [[He also welcomed Greens and SPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Contracts that have been concluded in recent years, partly also in the time when you were in the government, when Haider went around with the Taferl and said: The director of the National Bank gets so much! – And what happened? Nothing! [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible! You're doing the dirty work for red and black!]] They were involved in a pension reform, which reduced 30 percent of the benefits for normal people. [[Abg. Stroll: Attention! You have a climber in your hand!]] But you never looked, even in the years of your government responsibility, when it came to luxury pensions when it came to... [[Abg. Strache: What is the deal for the Greens?]] Where were you? Where were you when you were in the government? Where were you? What were you doing last year during the negotiations? Where were you? Where did you get yourself? - I didn't hear from you! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What is the deal for the Greens that you play the climbing bar holder?]] – There is no deal with the greens. There's no deal with the greens. We also did not make it easy in the last half year, but we wanted to go a constructive path, a step towards a more uniform pension system, we wanted to take a first step and make a constructive contribution. [[Abg. Kickl: When does the law come into force? When does the law come into force?]] We wanted to contribute an important part to this; I miss it with you. You have not come in, you have not been able to bring in even a constructive point, you are now standing and yelling. [[Abg. Kickl: You spent half a year playing!]] You could've been just loud before, you could've gotten up and said what you're missing, and you could've done a great job. We might have brought together more as opposition. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] It's a shame that you too jump off at the last moment and now talk about the privilege stadium. [[Abg. Stroll: You can use!]] - No, we don't let ourselves be used. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why didn't you agree to the postponement?]] It's done enough. We are going in the direction of a first common step. This signal we give towards ÖVP and SPÖ because we... [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen to Professor Marin?]] Mr Marin, however, does not read the Constitution accordingly, I have the impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7660	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7681	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleagues! High house! I think that 70 percent of the Austrians are afraid of poverty at the age. Unfortunately, we see God’s day after day people waiting with their purchase until the evening, because then the bread is cheaper or they simply have to struggle for their livelihood. That's fact. On the other hand, we have created a totally privileged system in the political environment, which is morally represented by nothing, but by nothing at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I am probably one of the few in this hall who really had the opportunity to choose between a privileged system and the normal ASVG system. I was at the time of the Styrian Landtag when the politicians were able to decide whether to stay in the privileged system, and to consume exactly these special pensions, or whether they voluntarily switch to that system where they say: No, thank you, that's irresponsible! Of course, I have opted for the new system, because I believe it is irresponsible and one must not enrich oneself at the expense of the next generations. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] If you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all those from my group, the FPÖ, who cried out loud and loud that the privileged system must be gone, voted in favour of it, or even voted in favour of the new system, there you have – unfortunately God – is wrong! There were many who preached water and drank champagne. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] I personally am for an honest and fair system, for a system that is transparent and comprehensible. Even if we are only taking a small step with this reform of special pensions, I am still glad that once something is in motion, that this moloch, which is extortioning us all, is finally moving. We cannot see how people can continue to finance privileged systems at the expense of the masses. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our pension system is based on the generation contract. At the time of Adenauer, there was the so-called writer plan, where it was precisely defined how important three generations are to maintain the system. Let us now look at the birth rate in our country, there is cause for concern, because we have fewer and fewer children. Those who should also benefit from a pension, those who are to finance the system, are simply no longer there. We are well advised to consider whether the charging procedure alone will be sufficient. I don't think so. I believe that in the future we will have to put more emphasis on a second and third pillar. We will also need to redesign the system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A condition must be a family policy where young women and young people can consciously choose children, without having to be afraid of falling into poverty traps. We need a family policy that is back there for the young people who support the families and do not inhibit them. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Minister, you have introduced the pension account some time ago. I also believe that this is absolutely the right way, because the pension account creates transparency, everyone can look into it. I think it is important to see what you have paid, and above all it should be an incentive to work longer and to be able to make your own contribution, as the Scandinavian countries already show. Our path is a pension fund for all, our goal is to have the ASVG upper limit as the maximum lid and the pension multimillionaires in the future no longer in Austria. We bear responsibility for the future, and with today's regulation, I believe, we have taken the first step.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7772	Now comes Mr Mag. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7794	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear students – especially from the New Middle School in Wolfurt! Whenever the reference is made that pension systems in Austria are not uniform and there are still privileges there, it takes milliseconds until the Minister of State jumps up and says: That's all stupidity, it's all decided, it's all being harmonised, we've already got everything under roof and compartment, they're all coming into the APG, into the General Pension Act, and done! Just, it's not right that way. The Court of Auditors will not and will not tire to point out that stone-old privileges have been established for decades, and your group and your own clients will protect their own clients to keep them as long as they can. [[the speaker points towards ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] In these days, the first normal-mortem socially insured people will be sent home their pension account original credit, and I am sure that some hundred have already picked it up in the armchairs because of the low number they have seen. As of the year 1955, the pension account applies to the normal Austrians, to officials from 1976 onwards. And why? - Because someone's been protecting his clientele again. The officials just arrive 21 years later. A skewer who believes that when negotiating this regulation of the recent year, which was sitting at the table, was a 75's. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Mr Kickl and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Even if we look at harmonisation, there are different conditions for the calculation. You said there was a bill for the officials. – It is true, Mr Minister, that only the ASVG insured persons are expected to be much longer and the fees are more favourable among officials. There's nothing like that! If you look at the privileges at the ÖBB and at the post office, then the ÖVP is always fast when it comes to basking on the ÖBB, just happening does nothing. Let's take a look at: How many are going to the regular board at the post and at the Bundesbahn? – According to the Court of Auditors, the post is 0.5 percent, the ÖBB is 3.9 percent and the German teachers are 15.8 percent who go to the regular board. All the others disappear in some way earlier. And then you clean yourself up and say, Well, we can't do anything for the incapacity to work, that does social security! - Who believes in these coincidences? Now to the luxury pensions. They are a fine example of how to try to take the voters to the arm. Of course, you are right there, and the colleague Schwentner is right where it is said, there is a constitution, there are European limits, there is no easy way to go in and there is almost no way to cut the pension with the fallbeil at €3 000. You can't do that in the old cases! Of course, it is about sins of the past, of course we are in favour of getting involved in the old cases, but of course we are not in favour of declaring additional pensions of €126,000 per year permitted for the future and writing in the Constitution that it is okay for these people to get another €126,000 on them! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: That's not true!]] It is an insolence and a sense to the ordinary mortal citizen. For the future there are no constitutional barriers, because you could write in that with the APG the same applies once and for all to everyone – and you do not want to do so. And the Greens play the sidewalker for the government and participate in this insolence. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: That's not true!]] Let us take a look at what the Federal Government – and today I unfortunately have to take the Greens into this boat, which I do not like to do – means the normal mortal insured person. Due to the changeover to the pension account, losses for the insured can result in up to 3.5 percent. People who get 1 000 €, 1 200 € pension, which you think is 3.5 percent maximum loss. Those who have a luxury pension, an old case of € 7 000, € 10 000 pension, there is the average loss due to the law we decide today, somewhere at 1 percent. The thick fish – your children's protection and your children's protection – admit 1 per cent of the solidarity contribution, and the small, simple people from the street the three and a half times! [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] I think that's a shame! This shows what an attitude you have towards the average voters! And this is also an insolence to the young people who have to pay for these privileges, which you have to commit to 40 years and now cement in the Constitution for even longer! We would have had the opportunity to put an end to this self-instruction of individuals. We didn't take this opportunity. Lip confessions to or from: A common and equal pension right for all Austrians remains in further distance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7889	Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e7910	If you jump around as much as the rumple style, Mr. Loacker, what you have said in part doesn't come true if you articulate it like that! [[Abg. New builder: Well, well!]] And I think we all have each other now – yes, Mr Strolz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] I'm still coming to you! Wait a little! [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, I'm waiting!]] I understand very well your appearance and the current hour you have requested today. First of all, you have made a statement of principle which follows what you said after the election to the European Parliament. After the flopp, when all your activities regarding the privatisation of the water or privatization of the hospitals have somehow not entered and you have not achieved the required or expected result, you have yelled back and said: The NEOS will now focus on their core competences, and a core competence is the pension. Then we've heard your speech today. I can only say: To crack! If the core competence is, then I don't know myself anymore! I shall try, in my 5 minutes, to address some of the points raised by you and your group. [[Abg. Kickl: 2 minutes you've already fallen in love!]] You said on a TV show on the ATV: People under 45 have 40 per cent less pension. – Tell me once you've got such numbers, how you've got them and how you calculate that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Next point: The replacement rate on your website. This has already been explained to you by Mr Oberhauser: A replacement rate depends essentially on the career course of a working life and the working life biography. – I can only tell you if you argue with 50 percent: In 2011, the gross replacement rate for new accesses to the pension was 68 percent and the net replacement rate was 82 percent. So don't throw any numbers around you, considering that I feel you don't know yourself, but you're actually talking things to them, instead of swaddling around! Then you can deal with it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Set up the Taferl: “Don’t vote!” With paper like Mr. Chisto and write on it everywhere: “Don’t vote!” Then you don't always need to raise the Taferl! The OECD believes that we have a good level of supply, and this level of supply will continue to be maintained in the future! Of course, what can already be the case is that this 50 percent replacement rate, which you are talking about, occurs when pension reforms take place, just like NEOS imagine, when there is an increase in the statutory retirement age, private insurance must be completed and all that you always put into space. We agreed that we want to raise the actual retirement age. With 1. In January 2014, many measures have entered into force, which are already taking place. And for pension monitoring, you have to say: It is not in vain in the Government Convention that monitoring on the one hand should review the actual retirement age and, on the other hand, the employment situation of older workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The older workers are currently most affected by unemployment. And so you come and tell them to work longer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Tell me where these people should work before you swim here about pensions! That's the truth! But that's not exactly what you're saying! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They're just saying: Get up there! – We say that you both have to look at each other during a monitoring! One has to look at how pensions and retirement age develop, and one has to look at how the employment situation of older workers develops. You have to look out for both and not just see one because the other is lost, and that wouldn't be good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would also like to say something to you, Mr Kickl. On this occasion you also have to say: It would be time for us to improve the employment situation of older workers and thus also bring up the actual retirement age that we are finally taking a big step forward in the bonus-malus system, as is enshrined in the government programme. Tun It is therefore not always as if only the financial viability is at the centre and not the fate of people too! We can not only talk about numbers, how you have dwindled them down, but we need to talk about people, about those affected! The financialability of a social structure does not depend on what is available to an accountant, but on what a society expects! [[Abg. Stroll: Tell the boys!]] You play the boys against the old! In fact, you're going to do it in such a way that you say: For education it is too little, for pensions it is too much. You play boy against old people! And I tell you, Mr Strolz: It's bad! This society has not deserved it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Last sentence: If the Freedom Party is so much opposed to privileges, I wonder why, in 2003, 2004 and 2005, when it presented the Minister of Social Affairs, it did not take any initiative to reduce these privileges! Thank you. [[Abg. Kickl: My goodness!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8058	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8079	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery! I believe that many of those who listen here today are struggling with the statements on the pension system. On the one hand, they hear that everything is right and we're not. no need to worry, but on the other hand they hear of horror scenarios in the sense of: We drive the car and the system to the wall. I do not want to misrepresent the pension system, nor do I want to break out of it in absolute euphoria. I think the truth is here in the middle as often as it is. The fact is that with an average of 58.6 years we are far below the legal age of accession of 65 years. 80 percent of the population retires before 60 years of age. In all EU countries, we have the third highest expenditure on pensions at 12.7 percent of GDP. On the other hand, the Minister of Social Affairs has already explained to you today how these costs affect and how this should be taken into account. Due to demographic change, fewer and less active people are facing pensioners, and the situation is particularly marked at the latest in 2025 when the workers of the Babyboom generation, i.e. the years 1955 to 1965, retire. Another point, which is also worrying for me, is the attitude in our society towards work. We all know this: Already on Monday it is on the radio that the countdown will start until the next weekend. The social law professor at the University of Mazal formulated this very well once when he said that working life will be felt as a premise to the pension sky. Perhaps it should not be surprising, therefore, that in 1970 the number of average working years of a person was still 43 years old and in 2010 this figure is only 35 years old, despite higher life expectancy! – Of course, this social challenge will not be subject to a legal measure. But in recent years we have also put in place measures to counteract the above-mentioned problems. These certainly only take part in part, but were put in the sense of making the system safe for future generations. I may also be able to remind the members of the FPÖ that in 2004 we decided to complete the harmonisation of pensions. And there have been no more political pensions since 1997. There are only individuals in these rows who, due to their length of service, are still covered by these types of pensions, but the vast majority is covered by the ASVG-pension. At the beginning of the year, we have carried out an intensification of the hacker scheme, there was a gradual increase in corridor board up to the year 2017 to 40 years. The temporary invalidity pension was abolished and the rehab money was created in return. We have created transparency within the meaning of a pension account to share information and to provide indirect incentives to stay in employment longer. Of course, we have also put in place other measures which will enable older workers to return to work. 370 million have been invested in employment integration, and on the other hand there is a training guarantee for young people. As a young person, you think about retirement, and when you talk to young people about it, the fear of paying into a system that ultimately comes out less than for current generations. – I express my support for solidarity, and I do not wish to if a wick is driving between the young and the older generations. However, I would like to see appropriate decisions and measures taken in the sense of gender equality based on facts and figures. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] It will be necessary – and I would like to stress this too – that the pension system is constantly being checked for its sustainability, because it involves many factors, such as the economic situation, the number of unemployed, the number of measures implemented and the actual age of entry. Pension monitoring – and therefore I ask that we implement it as soon as possible – can also be a basis for this if it also includes all relevant information. In times of financial tension, however, there should not be a taboo in order to ensure that there are loopholes in the pension system, because their withdrawal is a burden on the paying generations. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] I do not want to panic or hoist up the pension system, but I would like us to have an objective discussion that is based on facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8170	Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8192	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is sad that at a meeting that is actually about an important issue in Austria, namely the pension system, one is confronted with the fact that one has to listen to statements of the most immeasurable nature and then deal with them. Mrs Schwentner has unfortunately set a negative example of this today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musiol.]] Mrs Schwentner, your statements are not understandable to me. They seem to have a bad conscience. Your statements are based on that. You seem to be hopelessly overwhelmed with your activity! Otherwise, you can't understand what you've given of yourself today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] I should therefore like to say a few words about clarification. You have agreed to a request from the liberals in the committee, which Mr Kickl has put in the background of the fact that this issue may be further negotiated with luxury pensions. – Do you know, Mrs Schwentner, when this law enters into force? This shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. January 2015 in force! That means that we have had more than half a year to negotiate, because what is now on the table is not acceptable to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] You can still yell so much, you can still give so many inconsistencies of yourself: It won't be any better, Mrs Colleague! And I'll tell you something, too, because you said: Where were you? – In the Committee, Federal Minister Hundstorfer has repeatedly praised the Freedom Group, represented by our National Councillor Kickl, to the highest degree for its commitment to this law. There we were! We were there and have brought ourselves in to an extent that you have not done so to this day! – I would have liked to know what you have received from this government that you today even agree to this unwarranted bill. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Put this on the table, then we can keep talking! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have today, with your decision to support this draft, contributed the social competence of the Greens to the grave, Mrs Schwentner! I can tell you that this would never have happened to a colleague like Ollinger. [[Abg. Glauvisch-Piesczek: Such a fool!]] You now have to explain to people outside why an average pensioner in Austria gets € 1 050 and you will agree to a law for luxury pensions of € 9 050, with possibilities for an ASVG extension and plus € 3 000, which we are then at € 12 000, Mrs Schwentner! It is unbearable how you have carried your social competence to grave here! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] Mr von der SPÖ, I looked at a television discussion on luxury pensions yesterday, in which Mr Moitzi of Socialist Youth, among other things, took part. He has massively criticized his own party! In any case, you will have to explain to your clientele why you can view a luxury pension of €9 000 plus €3 000 as the highest possible legal basis in Austria, and you will have to explain to the pensioners why they have to get to Austria with €1 000 average pension. You will not do that, but we will definitely tell the people in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals confess to the state pension system, although we have repeatedly expressed massive criticism of one point or another for years. We have repeatedly also criticised the fact that, for example, the annual pension adjustment under the inflation rate is illegal, because it is, as Professor Marin has noted, offered every year with a trick of a change under the inflation rate, and our pensioners have to suffer. We have also made several requests in recent years, in which it was a matter of making an exit in the form of an opt-out possible for the luxury pensions. Strangely, all those who today defend the luxury board have always rejected these FPÖ requests. SPÖ and ÖVP have shown themselves when it came to rejecting these requests over and over again! It must be clear to us – I think we agree on this – that the pension system in Austria needs to focus on getting under control of labour market policy in the future. That is not the case at present. We currently have 370 000 unemployed people, and this is a massive threat to the system. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Federal Minister! You told us at the last meeting that the retirement age is already increasing with monitoring. To this end, I can tell you: You have also said the untruth in this regard. It's not rising! You have told us the untruth in that you only collect people statistically. However, the retirement age – as Dr. Schuh said – does not rise. This is why further measures are underway.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8289	Mr Neubauer, I know that debates, as we are now leading them, are being strongly debated. That is the meaning and purpose of Parliament. But I do not allow anyone in this house to be subject to corruption. However, you did this indirectly by assuming that Mrs Abge-ordered Schwentner had gotten something. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a willful interpretation!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I will not allow such a choice of words, and I will also have a call for order in the future. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] [[Abg. New builder: That's not what I meant!]] Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8351	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow the pension for us boy is still relatively far away. I'm now 25 years old, that is, thumbs time pi and people my age in about 40 years old will retire. Exciting this is only that, although the whole thing is very far away, it really worries a lot of young people in Austria. All over Austria, many young people tell me: I'm kind of afraid I won't get a pension any more. This is a diffuse feeling as to whether this social state will still be there for us young in 30 or 40 years. This diffuse feeling somehow also goes a little in the direction that my generation will eventually go worse, especially in terms of pensions, than the generation of my parents. For me, the question arises when I hear this concern: What actually happened when there was such a feeling? Although we are a small country in a globalized world, we are at least the 11th largest country in the world. What really happened to the young people? I have been thinking about this and I would like to try to translate you into parliamentary language, so to speak, where this feeling comes from. I think a huge point is that training times have been greatly extended. Young people enter the job much later today. And the second huge point is: When you get into the job, you find yourself very often in really ugly internships, sometimes only gets temporary contracts. This whole precarization of the working world for young people, these are all stories that are of course not particularly good for the pension and for the security feeling. The problem is that the policy of the last decades has built and planned the pension system in Austria in such a way that you have a job very soon after training and then do it until early retirement, and best you stay the whole working life in the same job. But young people do not de facto have this reality of life anymore. And many young people don't want this reality of life anymore. So there's changed a lot. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, for me and for us Greens, the central question is: How can we get this solidarity pension system – which is not working badly in Austria, which has really worked well compared to other countries in the world – into the 21st century? At the end of the century, how can we make sure that all young people in Austria receive a fair pension? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens have some proposals for this. First, we want to invest much more, unlike what the government has now planned, in education, in research, in future sectors, because a very central thing for our pension system is that all young people have a good job as far as possible. The second point is that we need much more stringent laws regarding the working world of the boys, for example, much stricter laws on internships, and that we really have to manage these indefinite contracts and ensure that young people have jobs wherever they pay in insurance. Thirdly, we want Greens a basic pension, so that every young person in Austria can really rely on getting a pension once. In Austria, hundreds of thousands of people of the older generation – even now – are affected by poverty. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 12,000 €!]] And I really want us to get to a basic pension so that poverty in old age is no longer possible. We are such a rich country, and that this is possible in our society, I simply do not find it fair. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point is: It is a first step, but I am very glad that today we will limit the luxury pensions in Austria for the first time. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 12,000 €!]] I understand any criticism, but everyone who now criticizes it would make sure that everything remains the same as it is that these people with so much pension get these even in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And we Greens are the first to see that we're going a little bit further, and we've really been involved in it constructively. Last point: We also believe that the state payment system is a very good variant. What I hear again and again from NEOS, ÖVP and also from the Stronach team goes towards private pensions. We Greens want that not the insurance lobbys, the banks, the financial markets decide whether young people get a pension sometime. I really want to stop these stories. We don't have this trust in the financial markets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8431	Mr Dr Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8452	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Estimated citizens! Estimated taxpayers! The vast majority of us have had a blood loss sometime in life, and then you always get a beautiful laboratory finding, on which are often star dln on it, or you always see if star dln can be found on it. It's alarming. The more stars are on it, the more unrest there is in the patient. And if I compare the pension system with a patient now, then I've almost only found stardrums on this laboratory, and there are some values that are normal – maybe two or three. On these two normal levels, the treating doctor rides around and says: The system's fine anyway. One of the values is that the real retirement age increases slightly. All of us are so happy, and it seems that this will save the system. The second value, which is normal among these many, many starreds in the very sick, almost mori-bonded patients pension system, is that problem awareness increases. After all, we all feel that we have to do something and do something. The jubilation that the government is breaking out on the pension reforms and adaptations et cetera, however, is really anything but justified. He is even inappropriate and, from my point of view, partly unscrupulous. When we bring back the numbers on the occasion of the World Cup, which starts today: Brazil is already world champion – world champion as regards the retirement age. In Brazil, people with 55 in retirement are going to a well-known completely different demography than with us. We are already European champions at 58 years. At 58 years of age, you attend We're going to the pension. And we're still partly pretending we've got the system under control. – We haven't gotten hold of it since then! Over two million citizens in Austria are already in retirement. The conclusion is: We'll go to bed too early. We're too sick when we go to bed and we're also too happy to go to bed. What we do in the face of these catastrophic findings is not causal therapy, but we doctors continue to be around, although all the causes are known to us. We know the low birth rate: 1.4 – extremely bad, really kills us in the long term. Even now, this leads to the wage-dependent charging procedure ad absurdum, and we have no alternative variants, no ideas to improve this payment procedure in any way. We have huge cross-financing through the federal funds. We spend 14 percent of GDP on pensions and pretend to be okay. On the other hand, experts who have already been mentioned today have repeatedly made consistent, very good suggestions that may sound radical in part, but in reality are the only way to cure these patients. These proposals are constantly being watered down, converted into compromises, or even treated as untruths. The fact is that the patient's pension system is getting worse and worse, and the stardrums are becoming more and more. Now, of course, one can without end criticize the measures or the non-measures we are taking. I would therefore like to say something positive, but first of all to say something negative, namely the measures that are not effective; they have already been addressed a few times today. Shorten the luxury pensions, this is a reflective, reckless approach that everyone understands perfectly vista. This may not be all right morally if in Austria people take 30 000 euros or perhaps even more in the month. But these people have contracts that have entered into contracts, private contracts. And we are now doing something that really calls into question the rule of law and the state of Austria: We are invading these treaties. We need to discuss this. So understandable and comprehensible is the fact that many citizens do not think it is right and unfair, but one must go deeper in the matter and take a closer look at the legal, constitutional. There is a problem that we may have to look much more closely at some day when these ladies and gentlemen, whom we now clear through the Pension Restriction Act, complain and bring this complaint to the EU once. I have my doubts as to whether this will be the case, because we have an old legal principle, which is called: Pacta sunt servanda. In other words, contracts must be respected. This is an old Roman right that still applies: The contracts shall be complied with. You have to consider that. And the consequences of such decisions must also be borne. On the other hand, it is also important that we do not organise human hatred against pensioners, that we do not, just because a system itself is bad, increasingly place individual groups of people, pensioners, early pensioners on the pranger. There's something going on that's not quite all right: We're talking about a system, but we're talking about people, and we're implicitly accusing those who go into retirement: Well, why are you going to retire so early? – This is a bit of a fundamental problem in the public attitude, including in the media and politics. Therefore: We must change our attitude, our attitude, and we must also try to change the attitude of the individual citizen, the citizen. Work itself has to be worth something again. And here we are again on the tax question: The tax must also be adjusted accordingly. We come to the subject in the course of the day. What are effective measures? What could be done relatively quickly? For example, we have the age of women's pensioners, which could be adjusted much earlier. In my view, this would be an act of equality, women would be much more equal than they are now, and women would open up careers. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We should push for a total harmonisation of the system and we should also take care of the precautions ourselves. This is a very important point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8535	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8556	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciate viewers! We are talking about the systematic injustices in our pension system, and we have raised several axes there. On the one hand, it's about generation. This has already been clearly emphasized by several sides today. What are we talking about? I would like to sum up briefly. We know – and this is also said in the report of the Pension Reform Commission and many experts, including Professor Marin, but not only him, including the OECD – that, of course, we are entering a gap with an increasing number of pensioners who are facing less and less employed people. That is, we know that we have to take faster steps at the actual retirement age than we have done before. The government has undertaken to increase the actual retirement age by 17 weeks per year by 2018. Many experts doubt that this will succeed. But let's assume it succeeds. In the same period, life expectancy increases by ten weeks. That is, we have a net effect of seven weeks at the actual retirement age. This is not fair in the sense of this generation of justice. The second point concerns gender equality: You have introduced the pension account. That's very good. We very much support this. Estimated Mrs Oberhauser – she is talking to someone right now – we talked to a lot of people about this pension account. We have even offered them to look in with them together with expert guidance and to get something German in there. There I come to the point of what private provision looks like. People don't say, oh, that's great, but that's so transparent now, now I can look at all of this, but most of them say, pfuh, but that's really bad. [[Abg. Kickl: It hits the hit!]] That is, if we say here, please inform the citizens, tell them the truth, so that people also provide for themselves privately, so that does not mean that private care is the only system we want. But it's justice. They have to tell the people that they will get much less than the generation before. Look into the pension account! The people are hit! – Then stop tax incentives! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now I'm coming to the generali prospectus. So you need €250 000 to get €500. Mrs Oberhauser! If you calculate this by simply dividing it through the months, this shows that you didn't understand any financial product, how it works. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have to explain this to your client. Why don't you talk to Generali? Maybe the Generali will explain how these products work. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Another point is: Injustice in the system concerns the question of federal states. Did the federal states implement the pension reform? Of course, with regard to the privileges, but also to the age of accession. Mr Schwentner and Mr Loacker from us have asked the federal states, in a letter to the federal states, to understand this special pension privilege limitation. They have received a letter from the city of Vienna, in which the councillor Frauenberger writes that in 2005 Vienna deliberately did not take over the federal pension reform, but chose its own pension reform with a social eye, which does not interfere with the life planning of people for a fee. [[Abg. Stroll: A scandal!]] There is a solidarity contribution in Vienna. This is 5 percent for pensions of over 70 percent of the maximum basis and 10 percent for 140 percent. That means we are talking about 200 € and 600 € for pensions of 4000 € or 6 000 €. However, this does not deceive the fact that the Vienna officials continue to have a really unfair privilege over all measures and that you did not understand this arrangement. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strolz: Vienna is a swamp!]] Mr Minister, you have said that we must note that we are in a transitional phase. – Yes, but in Vienna this transitional phase lasts until 2042. I would like to ask myself quite frankly whether this is really the social dimension you promise in your election programmes. There are also substantial differences with regard to the retirement age. The good news and congratulations to Vienna is that in 2015 the statutory retirement age should finally rise to 65. I really think this is really wonderful that we arrived in Vienna at 65 years. And one last point on this law that we are going to discuss today. Mrs Schwentner! We cannot go along with it because – it is not here now – this law sets the pension privileges for all futures in the constitutional rank: Additional pensions of over €9 000, which you agree to today in the constitutional order firmly fixed to all eternity. I'm sorry, we can't go with that, and I regret that you're making yourself available for it, even if you want to talk about it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8652	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:35:57]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8674	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:36:13]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8925	The Club Team Stronach has according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 1712/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning ‘tax reduction for our performance providers instead of class struggle’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[10:36:43]] Request for a brief debate on the response 843/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8949	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the response 843/AB to Mr Zinggl's question 967/J, with regard to decision-making protocols by the Federal Minister for Art, Culture, Constitution and Public Service. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8971	The debate on points 1 and 2, 6 to 11, 16 to 20, 22 to 24 and 26 to 28 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e8995	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as Team Stronach and NEOS each 44 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time presented. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:38:21]] 1. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (136 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which a high-school and high-school education It will be adopted in 2014 and amended the University Law 2002, the Fachhochschul-Studengesetz, the Higher Quality Assurance Act and the Federal Law on the University of Further Education Krems (171 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on the application 180/A by Dr Andreas F. Karlsböck, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the University Law 2002 (UG 2002) (172 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9055	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Karlsböck was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9083	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! As a liberal science speaker, I find it quite positive that the basic research budget now stands on half-safe legs, although it should be noted that the budget has not become in absolute terms. That means we have a standstill, but the budget is at least secured. In addition to these corresponding lecturers, however, the planning security of universities is crucial for a successful scientific location in Austria, and there we place acute need for improvement. In our request, we want to extend planning security, which currently exists for three years, to five years, and we also have prominent supporters in this regard. Rector Heinrich Schmidinger, President of the Austrian University Conference, calls for this higher degree of planning security, there are foreign examples with high excellence, such as ETH Zurich, which stands for a much longer planning horizon, and we also have an institute in Austria, namely Klosterneuburg, which has been granted a ten-year planning horizon. The often argued argument that one would become inflexible if one determined something over such a long period of time goes into emptyness, because, as stated in the comments of the 2002 UG, it is possible to amend the agreement within the term in agreement between the contracting parties. We are now also dealing with a government template in which several laws are incorporated, and since I cannot go into everything, I would like to speak to the novel of the High School Law. In principle, we liberals are for self-determination, freedom, independence and free choice, and in principle we reject it. That is why we also welcome the fact that a change is taking place in the ÖH Act, which leads back to the direct election of the Federal Office. On the other hand, we reject the compulsory membership of private universities, which is to be added. We also reject the choice of letters and the passive right to vote for third-country nationals because we see constitutional concerns. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A special Krux for ÖH's compulsory membership: It is established that the students of private universities now have to pay, but if they do not, they can still study – that is, in German, they do not have to pay – but on the other hand, the ÖH is still open to complaint. This is simply a constitutional disparity. With regard to the ÖH, I would like to address a particular scurricularity, a particular concern which has become apparent in the last few days. Of course, we do not want the ÖH to be fed with even more money – due to several occurrences in the past. I just remember the Café Rosa, I just remember the buses that are paid to take professional demonstrators to Vienna for a peaceful ball, and so on. Now there's something else to add: The Freedom Party in Salzburg complains that it has not been invited to a discussion event of the ÖH. I would like to read to you the answer that has come in a sentence from the Green Students and the VSStÖ, that is to say, the socialist students: “Although every party has a right to exist, it is far from the claim to be allowed to vote in democratic elections.” [[Abg. New builder: Incredible!]] “ÖH Salzburg acknowledges that FPÖ is authorised as an electoral party in Austria”, but believes that it is a non-democratic force and therefore there is no right to participate and to vote in the democratic process. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a scandal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am looking for the clubmen of SPÖ and Greens to distinguish themselves from it clearly. I can only call in your ranks: If we start, save and protect democracy, such forces have actually lost nothing in a democratic process!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9131	Mr Deputy University Professor Dr. Däderle has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9153	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear guests at the gallery! I have been asked to welcome specifically the employees of the municipality of Altenberg from the Mühlviertel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with the issues raised by my previous speaker only in those cases which have been raised on the matter which is now before the debate. I'm in favour of us talking about the matter and not treat everything we can. The thing is, we're innovation two laws. One is the High School and Higher School Law, in which we substantially change the right to vote and renew some other aspects, and the other is the Higher Quality Assurance Act. The High School Law, in particular the procedure of the election, has been in debate for a long time. At the time, as a minister, I tried to innovation it, but always had to pay attention to a condition that said: All the larger groups must agree to such a reform, analogous to a total electoral reform, for which a broad majority is needed. This broad majority has now come to pass. All the larger groups have agreed on a new right to vote, so we can now gladly submit it to the decision-making process. This is truly gratifying – from the genesis of agreement, but also from the matter. There is now again the direct election to the Federal Office, there are a few other important innovations, for example the passive and active right of election of all members. animals taking into account the internationality of the academic area, there is a homogenisation of the various, very different forms of university and higher education that are now involved, such as private universities, and there is also a somewhat more precise version and strengthening of supervisory law and control possibilities. This has been the result of past developments. The second amendment concerns the Higher Education Quality Assurance Act. There was the following problem: We were faced with the fact that many foreign providers, who can offer studies in Austria, had to register here and then put this registration into the field as a practically quality seal for having the corresponding quality checked. But that was not the case, it was a simple registration. This led to misunderstandings, particularly among students, that a qualitative review would also have taken place. But this has not happened. We thought in a first step, we dropped this registration, but then both in the committee and in communication with those concerned, we came to see that a pure deletion of the registration, which of course would have ended this abuse, did not meet the information and clarification needs, and therefore, following the suggestions in the Committee and also the suggestions of the Community, invited those concerned and was still working intensively on an amendment of this proposal. We can now make an amendment which takes account of these concerns and wishes and submits a new version which does not provide for registration, but very probably provides for a report and various other measures. We hope that we will take into account the information and security of students when they observe such foreign offers in Austria. I think that's a very nice package. I would like to thank all those who have worked intensively on this, including Pentecost. I think that's a package that deserves approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9208	Mrs Maurer has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9229	Dear spectators on the gallery, in front of the TV screens! I would particularly like to welcome today the ÖH Federal Office, the Executive, which came today on the occasion of the HSG decision! [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Mr. Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ten years ago, Schwarz-Blau tried to make the ÖH, the student representation in Austria mouth dead by changing the right to vote, with an attempt to recolor. [[Abg. Lopatka: Please! That's great!]] It was true that the ÖH was of course particularly annoying under black and blue, especially critical. It was then tried to create a conservative majority for the abolition of the direct election. Since then, the students have not been able to choose directly who represents them to the government at the federal level. On the other hand, the so-called Lex RFS has also been introduced to ensure that the RFS, i.e. the Ring of Free Students, receives a mandate in the Federal Office. This right of vote is massively undemocratic, contradicts the principle of democratic principles. A voice from a small university is worth much more than a voice from a large university. This attempt to kill the ÖH has clearly failed, you have to say. The ÖH has remained loud and critical, despite this attempt and also despite the difficult conditions that this electoral change brought about at the time. It took ten years to implement this long-term demand of ÖH, but also the student – 84 percent of students were always opposed to the abolition of the direct election – to take it back and to re-establish the direct election of ÖH. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another point that I am very pleased with in this novel is that for the first time the passive right to vote is granted to foreign students. It is almost twenty years ago that Maria Vassilakou, now Deputy Mayor in Vienna, was Secretary General of the ÖH. That was a protest candidate at the time, she couldn't be elected. This went to the Constitutional Court. I am very glad that there is now a change, so that the students who study in Austria can both vote and represent themselves. This is a very important step, and I very much hope that the ÖH will also give an example for all other voting rights. This has been a green demand for many, many years. Maria Vassilakou will be very happy today – twenty years ago. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Despite all these points, there is also a negative point in this novel. It is a question of extending control rights to an extent that would never be allowed in any other representation of interest. The Ministry is given the option of decommissioning the chairperson under certain conditions. In my view, this regulation can be misused. The ÖH will be fully monitored at political level, by its own bodies, by the Supervisory Commission and also by its own auditors in relation to annual accounts and so on. This measure is definitely exaggerating, not necessary and also contradicts fundamental democratic principles. The ÖH is in principle in opposition to the ministry when there are disputes. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why actually “basic”?]] The Ministry is the natural opponent of the ÖH. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why is this a “natural opponent”?]] There is, of course, cooperation, but there are many areas in which the Ministry is the first contact person. It must be kept in mind that this cannot be misused. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please say that again with the “natural opponent”!]] Another point is that decisions can be held for up to six months. This is also a massive intervention into the functioning of the ÖH, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Nevertheless, this novelle is a very big step. I am very pleased, of course, as a former chairman, that students will be able to decide directly about their representation in the future. I would like to point out another point whose form of discussion in the Committee has positively surprised me. With this change in the law, it was planned to abolish the registration requirement for foreign studies. As a result of the interventions and protests in the Committee and also of the Community, it has now succeeded in defending this and making a joint request. I think this is very positive and would like to thank Mr Karlheinz Däderle, who has worked very well to extend quality assurance and not to abolish it. I look forward to the next ÖH election and I am very excited about the result when the first time is directly elected again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9340	The amendment just tabled is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9404	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9425	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to very much welcome the ÖH Federal Office here. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm very glad you're here. It is thanks, not least, to your constructive toughness that we decide on this package today. Thank you very much for this constructive cooperation with you. I hope we can continue to work on this basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The package we are deciding on today is another proof that in the field of science we are being presented step by step templates that are very pleasing and are going on constructively. A few weeks ago, we decided on the first steps to improve the funding of studies here in the house, and today we can decide on a package which is mainly concerned with improving voting rights to the Austrian high school. This law is to be described as a model in both the content and the process of creation. A law will be changed after a few years, which has not proved successful, but I will come to speak on it. I am very amused in the Committee on the Liberties – although I am of course pleased that they agree today – and I have taken note of some amusement that they say that this is a long-standing freedom requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, I can remind you that it was exactly you who abolished the direct election a few years ago, but I am pleased about this change of mind. I have already mentioned the process. A consensus has been found with the stakeholders – with the ÖH, with which AG negotiates – and a very good, broad package has been created. Mr Maurer has just mentioned that in the negotiations in the Committee, where concerns have been expressed about a regulation that we will also decide on and on foreign providers of study offers, namely to what extent they must be reported in Austria, we have achieved an improvement in the original proposal. Finally, it should be a parliamentary process. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is the direct election that we will decide today so important? – It is about the students being able to elect the highest level of ÖH, namely the Federal Office, directly again and not indirectly through representatives. This means that there are distortions in the current electoral system. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is, a point that has been particularly important to us in recent years, namely the re-democracy of the ÖH election, will be implemented with this direct election. All students who are ordinary members of the ÖH will also be able to choose. In other words, it will no longer happen that some students pay ÖH contributions but do not have the right to vote. Active and passive voting rights are decoupled from citizenship, which is also important. It is universities, universities are places of internationality, of living internationality, and it does not matter which citizenship one has when choosing one's representation; thus also a very important point. The selection of letters is also included in this package. We are, in principle, more skeptical of the choice of letters, but we see them as an opportunity in this context to make an attempt to take part in higher education, and it is also designed in such a way – only at the upper levels, not at the lower level – that anonymity in the right to vote should be guaranteed. In principle, an exemplary project – both the content and the process.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9493	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9514	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, Mr. Federal Minister! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! The new ÖH law could have really become a big throw – unfortunately now we have a bill that is neither fish nor meat! Instead of embarking on a basic ÖH reform that meets the needs of the individual university forms, a new law is being put together and the fundamental problems are being pushed forward. Now I'm wondering, Why is there this courage? The approaches were quite good, we already heard this today: keyword: national direct election of ÖH representatives; Keywords: reduction of the mandates in the Federal Office from 100 to 55; Keywords: Control and supervision by the Ministry of Science. But I do not understand why you have not received this train to the gate and have not shown courage to be more flexible. What has been said about creating a separate regulation for private universities? With this bill, the students of the private universities are now also offered under the roof of the ÖH and can be delighted with a forced membership. Although private universities may not receive public funds, students must pay a compulsory contribution there. We from the Stronach team speak out against forced membership in general! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If a representation of interest, such as a chamber et cetera, is so competent and good, then it does not need a compulsory membership, then every person will act Voluntarily and gladly join and pay his Obolus. Why? – Because he sees his interests well and competent. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This bill looks like an attempt to unite all universities. It is unforgivable and takes far too little account of the legally guaranteed character of private universities. The ÖPUK, the Austrian private university conference, “http://www.google.at/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&frm=1&source=web&cd=1&rja&uact=8&ved=0CB4QFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.privatuniatetetete.at%2F&ei=VG-ZU5uGNNGV7AaC8oH4Dw&usg=AFQjCngTqi-0G8CxZyIDgZf8iXmd9dbw, in its opinion, has not in vain rejected this proposal. And their argument makes sense! In my opinion, the planned ÖH law does not seem to be final in the entire Austrian university area, but I would like to stress, Minister, that there are very positive aspects in it, but, above all, for private universities which are subject to intense competition, it would bring significant disadvantages to international competitors. Unfortunately, that is reality and a fact! Why? – Because students of private universities, who finance themselves mainly or entirely from study fees, as payers – is equal to customers – the university has a very different position from those of state institutions. This proposal for a law will also not achieve the objective of increasing private investment in the tertiary education sector. On the contrary, we are just right to frighten potential stakeholders! In my opinion, nothing would have opposed the creation of a private university scheme and the adoption of the positive guidelines set out in this law. It wouldn't ruin the world. It would prove that we were in the 21st century. At the end of the century, it was possible to react flexibly and to find the right answers to changed conditions. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The ruling legal situation, ladies and gentlemen, currently allows private universities to adapt to international standards rather than to requirements for public universities in Austria. That is exactly what we want, which is an essential contribution to improving quality and optimising local higher education! That is why I appeal to you because it would be negligent to endanger this objective with an unbridled proposal for a law of the ÖH: Please Rethink You make this decision again and make a right decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9602	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9624	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear presidency team of the ÖH Federal Office! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what we are going to decide here today is a milestone in the history of ÖH election. We have, as we heard before, abolished the direct elections ten years ago and have had a completely absurd and undemocratic right to vote over the last ten years. This has led students to be able to vote several times for the ÖH Federal Office, because it was an indirect choice, and this has led to the fact that not every voice was worth the same number. Luckily, today, after ten years, we make this mistake like Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work. This is very important to me as a former student representative. The right to vote included such absurd things that at the time my group, which the JuLis had been able to set up at the time, had two percent in elections and still had equal number of mandates. This is not due, however, to the fact that the ÖH Federal Office was so small, on the contrary, it was extremely inflated, but rather to the fact that there was this indirect election, i.e. a completely undemocratic right to vote. I am therefore very glad that we will change this today and replace it with positive things. And that's... The direct election will be reintroduced. So such things as I described them can no longer happen. The Federal Office will be reduced as far as the mandates are concerned, and this will also be very helpful. It's great that the FHs and the PHs are involved here, because it doesn't make any sense to distinguish between different types of higher education and say: One chooses, but the other chooses so! Mr Ertlschweiger, I have not fully understood your plea for private universities in this context. We also believe that a forced membership is not useful, but if there are already, then all students must also have the opportunity to choose their student representation. I do not see the fact that there are individual students who leave out and then have even more bizarre regulations, such as at the Danube University of Krems, where one can pay for the ÖH contribution, but cannot choose. That's where I'm in the opinion: If there is already a forced membership, then for everyone! In that respect, what you said earlier is not clearly understandable. The choice of letters is a great innovation, which we hope will increase the number of elections. I do not understand the concerns of the FPÖ in this regard, because we also have the choice of letters in all other elections, and why it should not exist at universities, where it is essential, because there are students studying abroad. Students are not permanent at the university, they are sometimes not there either. This is especially true for foreign students. They have so far not had the opportunity to choose when they were on semester abroad. I am particularly pleased with the passive right to vote for third-country nationals, because it is absurd that you separate the active and passive right to vote here. I am also pleased because this was, I believe, the first request I made at the time in the Federal Office, namely that there can be no discrimination here. But I have to say: It's already a joke that you argue with constitutional concerns. It may be that you have them, but what is it about in the core? – It’s about you wanting to exclude people from anything because of their origin. This is not about great constitutional concerns, but you say: These are people who come from other countries, and therefore we do not give them the opportunity to act here as representatives of the ÖH! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] As I said in the Committee, Mr Minister, the control right of the Ministry towards the ÖH is extremely sensitive. I'll give my colleague Maurer the right to do that. It is really the only representation of interest controlled by the practically political negotiating partner to whom it is facing and where the supervision is there. I understand, however, why the right of control is extended here, because in recent years local ÖHs have partly been misguided, where control rights and supervisory rights were simply not sufficient. That's why I like it. I would also like to stress that I can go well with this, as you have extended it here. It is about the procedure in those cases where information obligations are not met in the face of twice-invited requests. And it's like this: Firstly, there is a two-way call, and secondly, it is a question of failing to comply with it. That's why I can go very well. I told you, however, that this - and you know that, Mr Minister - is extremely sensitive. You have also agreed to this and have said that you will pay attention to it, because, of course, it is in principle already a bizarre situation. I therefore believe that we should generally consider whether another supervisory authority would be more meaningful here. What I am particularly pleased about is the fact that an amendment has been tabled here today, because this concerns the reason why we could not agree to the Committee on Registration. I did not think it useful that registration should at all be deleted in the Government template, and I am very glad that the agency responsible for quality assurance and accreditation, in particular, has now been involved. So I am glad that this has worked so well and that the criticism has arrived in the Committee and that there is now a joint amendment in this regard. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to say: Thank you. Many thanks also for the constructive work in the Committee on the responsible representatives of the government parties. I believe that, essentially, it is a certain group that will thank you, and that is that of the students, because after ten years they finally have the right to carry out just as democratic elections as we all do.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9690	Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9711	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests, but above all also dear chairmen of the high school! I am pleased that today we are able to adopt two laws that are very important from my point of view, especially because it is a matter of bringing in a federal law with which the High School and Higher School Law 2014 will be passed. This not only proves that we can solve problems, but also gives us the opportunity to work with the new circumstances and with appropriate preparation time for the next year's high school elections. In this context, I am also very pleased that we have been able to handle the whole matter, which is not necessarily simple, on a broad basis. With "wide base", I mean cooperation, from cooperation – even though a colleague said here that the schooling was the natural opponent of the ministry. This is, of course, just because this colleague said so. To the other background I would simply say: Of course we have a different distribution of roles! I really thank you very much for the high schooling and its representatives that, in addition to these necessary differences of opinion, you have put the right and important content and material contexts in the foreground and set appropriate priorities here. And the priorities were also clearly described from the point of view of the problem, namely: We had a participa­tion which was not It was very high. At the last university election, it was 28 percent. Therefore, it is necessary to increase voting participation, just as other bodies do. For this purpose, the choice of letters is of course an instrument. Other organizations choose over three weeks, such as the Chambers of Workers. I can also have situations in student colleges where there are three days not enough where someone is abroad or has no way to go. Therefore, there is now the possibility of the choice of letter. A second, even better identification option is the instrument of direct choice. If I have indirect representatives, I can't assign them, I don't know who represents me, what kind of advertising is bad, but of course also in the representation. As it has been said, the motive of the black and blue coalition, which has had an indirect choice, would have been to shut down the high schooling, I can say that exactly the representation, which at that time also has substantially contributed to the content of the ÖH policy, namely the action community, also for the amendment of the law towards direct elections. Therefore, this hidden motive, one would like to cement anything there, cannot really have voted, or the consideration for it was wrong. That is why I am pleased that all the key groups in the field of higher education have really contributed to this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] There were some occasions. Mr. Karlsböck has already mentioned a café. And there is also a printing plant where a problem has also occurred. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – Yes, I know what she's called Facultas. In this context, I believe that it is one of the supervisory needs to clarify, but not to intensify, here. And I can say, We have been very sensitive! And the variant put in the room here, we could, for reasons of content, because we do not like a political position to disfellowship the chairperson of high school, I expressly reject. This is a completely different issue, especially economic matters, and supervisory rights, as has already been clarified by my previous speaker. Name: If the information template is rejected twice, then there are steps to be taken. - That's something else! I'd like you to be different in here sometimes. I have the impression that the Pentecost festival has also contributed to a change of opinion somewhere. At Pentecost, everyone talks in a language, with a tongue. We got 4 last week. June, the committee had, and I remember that only the two government parties voted in favour of the law. Mrs Maurer, who has now stood up for it so vehemently and with pleasure and has put the positive in the foreground as if she had just started, voted against it in the Committee. So Pentecost also has a content component, and I am pleased about it. However, it may also be that the content has led to another mood and has come to the view that what is now contained in the law is relatively meaningful. I have not mentioned a point yet, that is homogeneity in the field of electoral bodies. Mr Ertlschweiger, you have meant that it is not a big throw because the private universities have now been involved at once. I can tell you: We were all interested that we once had homogeneous structures! However, we have also negotiated with private universities whether they want to do so. In other matters, they also want to be equated with universities, and they also want to know how to deal with the problems together. This is why we have relatively fast access to private universities. Higher education conference. And the solution we now have is consistent with the private universities. Therefore: It is unfair if it is claimed that they would have wanted something else that they do not want to participate. They want this, it is also agreed with them in terms of content. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with this draft, as far as the entire system in the field of high schooling is concerned, we now have a right of vote, which brings more democracy, which brings more direct participation and, of course, makes it possible to identify. That's clear if I have 55 instead of over 100 representatives. But this has already been apostrophized by most of us here, so I don't need to show much of the benefits. However, I would also like to thank you, especially Karlheinz Dägenle, but also all those who participated in the second law. This second law concerns quality assurance, including the accreditation of foreign providers in Austria. We have had a rather harsh arrangement, which, if it had been deleted, would have led to a deterioration in the information situation. In the meantime, quality assurance has been achieved in large parts with the relevant agency to bring more quality to the respective potential students and interested parties. I would like to thank once again Karlheinz Dägderle and all the other parties involved for their support, which will be expressed in a corresponding amendment. That means in the clear text: We have here a real reform of the entire electoral right, and also of the system in the field of high school, carried by many, who have contributed to it by the essentials. I believe that this too will ensure as broad an agreement as possible. I would like to thank you in advance and believe that we will see in the next elections that the electoral participation is going up and that we have created a good structure overall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9803	Thank you, Minister of State. [[11:16:16]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9824	Before I give the floor to Mr Kassager, I announce that Mr Podgorschek, Mr Mag. Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political responsibility for the operations relating to the use of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a business communication which should not be warranted with applause or abuse! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But that was a good news!]] In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. Now, Mr. Dr. Kassinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9865	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We've heard today: Much good in the High School and High School Law 2014! That's what we're joining. Positively from our point of view are the reintroduction of the direct election in the Federal Office, the extension of the control rights of the Ministry, the mandatory activity report of the Austrian High School to the National Council and the possibility for decisions to be issued in the absence of events of candidate groups. This offers the possibility of combating these decisions by means of legal means. We cannot support the Freeman – Mr Karlsböck has already suggested it – the right to the passive right of third-country nationals to vote. This is also a question of the exercise of sovereign powers. We take the view that sovereign powers should in principle be exercised by Austrian citizens, and in the field of higher education we consider the relevant European provisions to be fully sufficient. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] These provide for a passive right of election for Austrian citizens, citizens of EU and EEA Member States. We reject a further extension to third-country nationals. We therefore propose the following amendment by Mr Karlsböck and other Members: At second reading, the National Council wants to decide that the passive right to vote for third-country nationals is absent. For the introduction of the letter election, we also have a different point of view. If the motive is to increase voting participation in the high school elections – and I remember: 28 percent!; this is really not a great legitimation – then we believe that the price for it is too high. We are more of the opinion that voting participations can also be increased by simply working more attractively and giving those who choose the feeling that the choice also makes a sense, a need arises, so that one works accordingly for student concerns et cetera. So we reject this choice of letters.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9914	Mr President, I must draw your attention to the fact that you have to read literally the two amendments you want to make and that it is not enough to explain them only in the core.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e9929	We reject the choice of letters. This position not only represents our liberal, but also high school, VSStÖ, GRAS and FLÖ, because it undermines the principles of election – three out of six, namely the secret election, the free choice and the personal choice – and for this the price is simply too high for us. I am therefore reading literally the amendment concerning passive voting rights. [[Quoted print version removed]] On the topic of selection of letters: Amendment by Dr Karlsböck and other Members of Parliament ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to “The government template concerning a federal law that adopts a high school and high school law 2014 and amends the University Law 2002, the Fachhochschul-Studengesetz, the Higher Education Quality Assurance Act and the Federal Law on the University of Further Education Krems (136 d.b.) in the version of the Committee's report (171 d.b.).) is amended as follows: Article 1: 1. In § 43 para. 1 is replaced by the following: “The elections of the Federal Office and the higher education representations are also permitted by the choice of letters in the form of the transmission of a electoral card.” 2. In § 44 para. 6 Zif is missing. 1d 3rd. § 45 para. 2 to Paragraphs 2 to 2. 6 Receipts 4. In § 51 para. 2 Zif is missing. 2 5. In § 60 para. 1 is replaced by ‘presence and letter elections’ and the word sequence ‘in particular also provisions on the conduct of the choice of letter’ is replaced by ‘presence elections’.’
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10027	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The amendments you have just tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10149	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10170	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the visitor gallery! This new law is a beautiful sign, not only for the democratisation of higher education policy, which is urgently necessary, but also a sign – if you look at its process of creation – for cross-group policy. I think that belongs also appreciated in this house. That is not often the case, but this is a great example. Why? – Not only did all the key political groups of the ÖH representative, who are also present here today, be present by the Federal Presidency team, but this novel has also been implemented in exchange with the experts, with the stakeholders. This process could also be exemplary for other areas. I am now only taking the educational debate as an example, where it would not be bad to let the teachers' and pupils' representatives speak from time to time. All in all, however, it is an important step to reintroduce the direct election so that everyone can decide who represents it at federal level in the ÖH. On the argument that voting participation is so low because politics is so unattractive: I believe that if one has the opportunity to really participate, one can also determine how attractive the federal policy of the Federal Republic of Germany is; and this possibility should exist. As here again and again the criticism of the election of letters and the possibility of third-country nationals being elected comes: I wonder why someone who is studying here in Austria should not be able to choose his representative here in Austria. No matter what passport he is with, he is at the university and wants his interests to be represented there. I believe that this should be a matter of course in times like this, and everyone to which democracy is important will, I believe, be able to agree. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Korun.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] As far as the choice of letters is concerned, I would just like to remind you that the choice of letters is not an exclusion from a secret choice, a free choice and the like. We have this right to vote in the AK election, in the ordinary national elections, municipal elections, et cetera. Why should it be in accordance with the Constitution and not in the ÖH election?- Oh, my God! I would ask you to reconsider these arguments and not always to look for some points that contradict a common very sensible proposal. Now to the Quality Assurance Act: It has already been mentioned several times, there is a request that the legitimate criticism of clarifying some things has been taken into account by various stakeholders. The former Minister Mitterlehner – apologise, Mitterlehner is the current Minister – has been committed by the former Minister Däderle to putting together the stakeholders and including all criticism points. [[Rejoicing]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] I am pleased that there is a joint proposal which I would like to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this is a very sensible amendment, and I ask you to comply with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10272	The amendment which Mr El Habbassi has just tabled, which he has explained in his key points and which has now been distributed in the hall, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10388	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10409	Mr President. High house! I spoke, among other things, because I was a senior student in the main committee of the University of Vienna and was a student representative in the Central Committee. [[Abg. Kickl: It's been a while!]] I have therefore come to know the direct election model of the time in practice and find – I really want to express this – that this direct election model, which we decide today, is of course better. It is better, therefore, because it is enlarged because it is more democratic, because it has experienced an enlargement in the passive right to vote, because it involves the private union, because it nevertheless remains in the overall political mandate. This was a long discussion in the famous model that the bowl governments I, II brought in here, where this was also called into question. We said at the time when we were in opposition that this model will not work and that it is undemocratic, and today's day actually confirms this criticism. That is why I am very, very glad that it is possible for this step to be taken in the sense of democracy. My compliment to colleagues, to Minister Mitterlehner, to the VSstÖ, of course, to the action community, Andrea Kuntzl and all those who have contributed here that we have really taken this step, since I consider this to be quite significant. I think the choice of letters is an emergency solution. We will see how it will work, but above all there is also the consideration that the electoral participation is increasing in order to increase the legitimacy of high school, and that is also to be tried. The last point to be mentioned is the fears expressed here as regards this control and supervision. I believe that this is a clear rule that students' representatives are in the Commission and that, of course, only if, as described, economic problems arise and if there is really a reason for them. The whole thing is still under observation and also under public and media comment. I also think it is right for you to stick to compulsory membership. The high school offers service, advice and is intended to represent all students. That is why, I believe, this is also a legitimate consideration. [[Abg. Kickl: The federal army has been forced to do so!]] On the whole, therefore, today is a really positive day for universities, a positive day for students. I assume that even here ÖH is still an uncomfortable representative, but not a natural opponent, because I experienced at that time how often there was a good cooperation between the ÖH fractions, with the ministries, then with the Ministry of Science. Why shouldn't there be that in the future?- Oh, my God! I am quite positive about this, but there can also be natural contrasts, which is why this should also be carried out here. I am pleased that this will also be given such broad approval here.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10459	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10481	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear ÖH-Federal Chair! Dear students! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A ten-year-long, persistent discussion and demand process has paid off, as I mean, because, dear students, dear Studi representatives – I can in particular and at this point congratulate the VSStÖ very warmly on its tenacity – we decide today to reintroduce the ÖH direct election, and that is incredibly brilliant in democracy policy. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zakostelsky.]] In addition, I think it is great that we can have another negative legacy of black and blue with today's day of the past. That's very, very important to us. [[Abg. Kickl: My goodness!]] But why is this regulation so positive? - A lot has already been said. First of all, because it is now up to all students to elect their representatives directly and directly at the federal level. In short, dear students, you know in the future who you as your representatives are elected to the OH Federal Office. Secondly, I find it extremely positive that there will be a uniform system for all ordinary and extraordinary students, i.e. those who complete at least 30 ECTS points, regardless of their citizenship. It will now be possible for all to vote actively and passively, and it will finally end discrimination against third-country nationals. Thirdly, It is very positive that students, whether at universities, colleges, educational universities or private universities, can now really choose their representatives. Personally, I think it is an essential right if I pay for the fact that I can then also vote for my representatives, and, like some colleagues here, I do not think it is an essential right, but rather an essential one. This will increase on the one hand the rightful circle, and on the other, more people will be involved in essential democratic processes. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not have anything at all. One point I would like to raise is the introduction of the choice of letter. This is an area that makes the choice more complicated for everyone and anyone, but it unfortunately swings with the danger of the disappearing election secret. We will also pay particular attention to the fact that the free, secret right of vote will not be undermined. Finally, I can also address the development of the law, namely in concrete terms participation, and the actual main negotiators. I really think it's great that this law was designed by Studi representatives very, very broad. This was a process that is unfortunately not discussed in every draft law. I think that might be an example. Directly affected or their representatives have shaped and designed the law, so I find it all the more surprising and sometimes presumptuous that some colleagues here, as well as in the committee, stand up and talk about parts of the law. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that current Studi representatives probably know best what students want and how they want to know their representation. Therefore to those political groups or also to Members who may not vote here today: They vote against the will and desire of students! Remember when you vote!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10526	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10548	Mr President. Federal Minister! Estimated chair of the ÖH Federal Office! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I do not know who of you were here here in Parliament when you decided to abolish the direct election of the ÖH Federal Office ten years ago. Yesterday night I read the protocols, it was a very turbulent session. You may remember that there have been protests of the students – quite rightly there were protests, even here in the House. Andreas Khol had to interrupt the session at that time. I read a little bit about what went down here, it was quite exciting. There may have been a Member of Parliament, Klaus Wittauer of the FPÖ, I do not know who still knows him, at that time he had a very own way of ensuring order here. He said that with a kick in the butt he would have created order, or even better, with his garbage vessel. He may have an agriculture, and that was, as it were, his approach. I am pleased that the new Federal Government has a different style, that together we also involve the Austrian high school and all political groups in decisions. Reinhold Mitterlehner has taken a very important step here, just as Andrea Kuntzl always has an open ear for the wishes of the students, and the reintroduction of the direct election of the student representation in Austria is a very, very important step. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That there has been a number of absurdities in the old law, we have already heard today. Not every voice was worth as much, a voice at a small university was partially five to ten times as much as a voice at a large university. It was also strange that there were ÖH members who had to pay the ÖH contribution but were not entitled to vote. So there were some things that were certainly not all right. All of this is now being changed, and in the future there will be a modern high school law, where students can choose their Federal Office directly for the first time. There are, of course, also sub-areas that I personally see critically, the choice of letters has already been addressed. We will, of course, continue to observe this, including the question of supervisory law. Minister Mitterlehner has already made it clear in the Science Committee that it is at least his concern to respect the autonomy of high school. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's change of law is above all a very important signal to many, many young people here in this country, namely that courage and endurance to fight injustices pay off, if it takes ten years, as in the case of the High School Law. The right thing always wins in the end, we are taking a right step today. I should like to thank all the students who have fought for years very much, of course, on behalf of my group, especially the VSSTÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10590	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10612	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am also allowed to enter into the circle of those who, above all, want to congratulate quite cordially on the arrival, the way in which it happened. I took advantage of the opportunity today in the early days, like many of us, to join the democratic workshop and to discuss with students what democracy is, how it comes about, how it goes. I was actually pleased to see that there are also examples of how to get to a sensible, well-kept and democratically well-designed law with those involved, which is what we can decide together today. I'm only allowed to look back very briefly just to delete the difference. ==References====External links== In December 2004, the National Council adopted an own-initiative proposal from the ÖVP/FPÖ members, who decided to create a new university student. The law on the content was then launched by representatives of the high school, and there were many protests. Now, in preparation for this law, I read the following – I may briefly quote from an invitation from the Minister to a press conference –: “Scientific, Research and Economic Minister Reinhold Mitterlehner will present tomorrow, Thursday, together with the ÖH chair team, Florian Kraushofer, Julia Freidl, Bernhard Lahner, Viktoria Spielmann and the representative of the action community, Eugenio Gualtieri, the joint assessment draft for a new student and student education law 2014.” How this has been done is actually exemplary, is right, for we should not forget one thing: Direct choice, extension of options to sum up everything under one roof are the things we need. If we want to motivate young people to participate actively, to work for others and to become involved in democracy, this school of democracy is the most important condition. I mean, it needs this democratic right to vote. Let us not forget what we have seen in the various debates today: Many of the student representatives of today and the coming generations will be representatives of this House in the next few years, and what better steps can we take than to give them a good democratic craft so that they can learn and work accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10663	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft concerning a federal law establishing a high school and high school law in 2014 and amending the University Law 2002, the Fachhochschul-Studengesetz, the Higher Education Quality Assurance Act and the Federal Law on the University of Further Education Krems in 136 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mrs Maurer, ladies and gentlemen, two supplementary or amendment amendments tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues, as well as additional or amendment tabled by Mrs Däderle, Mr Mag. Kuntzl, Dr. Karlsböck, Maurer, Dr. Scherak, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments or amendments referred to above, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament, Dr Karlsböck, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1 of Sections 43, 44 and 45. Whoever is here, may give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The Members of Parliament, Dr Karlsböck, colleagues, have tabled an additional or amendment amendment concerning § 47 in Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The Members of Parliament, Dr Karlsböck, colleagues, have tabled an amendment concerning §s 51 and 60 in Article 1. I ask for an important sign upon consent. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Members of the Maurer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning § 63 in Article 1. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Deputies Dr. Däderle, Mag. Kuntzl, Dr. Karlsböck, Maurer, Dr. Scherak, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 4. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. [[Congratulations and cheers at the gallery.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] [[Call: You didn't clap at the budget]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 172 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[11:44:32]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Maximilian sub-rainer, Mag. Roman Haider, Georg Willi, Leopold Steinbichler, Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the impact of the Media Cooperation and Promotion Transparency Act (MEDKF-TG) on tourism marketing organisations (164 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10751	We're coming to the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Obernosterer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10778	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home on TV screens! As has already been said, we are now coming to the issue of tourism, and it is about the media transparency law, which should be looked at and corrected again. There is a six-party proposal on this, and the last Tourism Committee also discussed the tourism report last year, and also announced the importance of tourism for the Austrian economy and especially for the rural regions. The fact that a tourism issue is on the agenda so early also shows this importance, and I am pleased, of course, as a tourist speaker in our group, that it will be dealt with under item 3. [[Abg. Kickl: What does that mean for special pensions?]] We know that all the investments in the tourism sector are happening locally, 90 percent of the investments are around 50 kilometres. We know that especially in the economically difficult situation of recent years, tourism has been a stable factor in the field of work and also in investment. Whatever the tourism report has shown and what was also very encouraging is that the period of decommissioning has declined in the farms – not much, but it has at least gone back and has not increased. And just as this applies to any other industry and others, of course, the issue of red tape is also very important for tourism. With this media transparency law one has thought of something good, but in practice one has seen that it is not to be handled equally for all sectors. It has been estimated that the effort for this will be around €360 per year. But especially in the tourist sector, with Austria's advertising – but also with the country tourism organisations and also the regional organizations down to the municipality, but we stay with Austria's advertising, which is also very strong abroad and also strongly advertises Austria's electronic media as a tourist location – it has been shown that these records and controls have taken on an extent that was not thought of, according to the records of Austria's advertising of about €70 000. I am pleased that there has been a six-party request – which is therefore supported across all political groups – that these provisions should be looked at again and corrected in one direction, where not only bureaucracy is made, but still the control on the ground, so that one knows that this works. A sentence very briefly on the second request submitted by the NEOS concerning the annual working-time model: Well thought of, but we know that we are living in Austria in a social security state, and negotiations are under way there. It is therefore primarily not the responsibility of legislation, but the social partners must agree on it. But one thing is clear: In the service sector and especially in the tourist sector, we must be more liberal in working hours than in the industrial sector, so that Austria remains internationally competitive as a tourist country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10815	The next speaker is Mr Sub-brancher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10836	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Imagine, we have a Mercedes in the garage, but unfortunately no fuel at hand. Welcome to the world of Austrian tourism policy! [[Abg. Podgorschek: This is the case with the Federal Army!]] So if we already have a Mercedes in the garage, then we should also take care of him, cherish him and take care of him. And if you don't belong to the car friends like some of us, you're welcome to think of a tree and embrace it. However, this tree will not really grow without water, without “fuel. ” And what the tree is the water and the 8-cylinder of the fuel is, this is the political understanding of tourism, which unfortunately is not available in Austria over some routes. That is why we should stop talking about Sunday, we should create the right conditions and make the necessary understanding! It starts with understanding. We understand, however, that we cannot always impose obligations on businesses that businesses are made up of both entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and employees. Dividing the different interest groups is a political zero number and actually does nothing at all. The fact is that tourism in Austria is treated more stepmotherly in many matters. Yes, we are world champions of tourism, and yes, we are proud of it – our businesses, our awareness, our guests and the more than 400 000 jobs. And if the Austrian Hoteliers' Association mentions that further cuts of investment and jobs would threaten the Austrian tourism bank's lack of money, that Austria's advertising has been getting less money for years and that advertising expenditure is increasing, then we must think about it, because all these negative effects must be taken up by the companies. The people in the enterprises are the sufferers: the employees, the entrepreneurs – both sides. And understanding begins for me in understanding, and understanding when listening. Do we really know how important our tourism companies are to us, what benefits do employees bring to Austria? And if next year Conchita is thank you, the Eurovision Song Contest will take place in Austria, then it really can't be our business. And again: I demand more understanding, I demand more tourism policy. More tourism policy also means a better and stronger representation for me, both from both sides, from entrepreneurs and from workers, because the framework conditions must vote for both sides. A good company starts with a well-trained and highly trained staff, especially in the service business, especially in tourism, where kindness not only counts, but above all is the trump. Only: Unfortunately, all of this does not work without healthy corporate structures and without functioning operations. In this context, I also, of course, advocate a fair tax policy. Fair distribution also means that more year-round jobs are created so that not only half-hearted investments are made in employees and so that companies can actually afford and keep the best-trained people. Therefore, once again my request for a solution: Let's do it! Let's start right away, and we'll relieve Austria of advertising under the Media Transparency Act! Because, as my colleague has already mentioned, we cannot misunderstand, we need transparency, we are also guilty of people, but the current regulation only costs Austria advertising, as it is already mentioned, € 70 000 a year or 1,500 hours of work, and that is not in the sense of the legislator. At the beginning, the law – and I assume that when drafting the law, it was not primarily aimed at tourism agencies such as the internationally active Austria advertising – from €360 a year. In the case of Austria advertising, however, we speak of at least 30 organisations in 21 different languages, and this results in the above mentioned extra effort of € 70 000. And in addition, the following happens: This will allow international competitors to learn and react to the strategy of our largest and best advertising organisation at an early stage – and that cannot be in the interests and in the interests of the legislator. So yes to transparency, but without distortion of competition, and yes to this resolution, because I am sure that each of us is aware of the importance of Austria's advertising for Austrian tourism. Not even half a cent of advertising costs per guest brings about 125 € expenses of the guest – what a value added in our country! That is why I would like to make a final appeal to you, Mr Minister: Please think about the valorization of the funds for the Austrian advertising! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10873	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10894	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, Mr Obernosterer, given the burden that tourism has had to experience in recent years on the part of this Federal Government, I would rather give to Mr Unterrainer, who believes that tourism is not valued enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this morning, even before noon, the early time for negotiation is not due to the fact that tourism would be valued so much, but rather to the fact that the Minister of Science has already been there in the past, and that because he is also a minister of the economy, he is still in favour of tourism. [[Abg. Brosz: That the Minister was already there!]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's right! - Oh, my God!]] - But back to the thing. This Media Cooperation and Promotion Transparency Act is not only a word-to-word, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very rare case of overregulation and bureaucracy. That is why I am particularly pleased that today we have managed, in an all-party request, to ask the Federal Government to review this law of insanity and to give this House an amendment template. Originally, this Media Cooperation Act should bring about greater transparency in media cooperation and promotions of those around 5,600 institutions subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. But, as so often in Austria, the opposite of good is well meant, and so it has been shown in the last two years, since this law was in force, that the example of Austria advertising does not create 360 € of bureaucracy costs from the implementation of this law, the reporting of media cooperation and deployments and so on, but more than 70,000 €. But it is not only the costs, it is also an blatant competitive disadvantage that comes from this law, because through the publication obligation, every foreign tourism organisation can now check where and how, in which media of the tourism world champion Austria – and that is, despite this federal government, we are still thanking God – advertises, and that is counterproductive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there is a third point that needs to be addressed, and here we come to this law of bureaucracy already sufficiently described in the business sector: From around 1,000 members, a bureaucracy without the environment can survive because it is self-employed. And right there we have reached this law, because Austria's advertising is being sued by the communications authority Austria, where it has its messages. The negotiations are already going to the Federal Administrative Court. That means cost does the whole thing a lot, bringing it nothing at all. One bureaucracy complains of the bureaucracy of the other and employs the courts. Bringing it doesn't do anything to tourism. That is why we are happy to be available today – and I am not saying that now without a certain amount of haema, because the Freedom Party did not agree to this law three years ago – to help you repair this law, my colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10959	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e10980	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are talking about a law that is a word-punishment, the media cooperation and promotion transparency law. It has eight paragraphs and has been valid since 1. ==References====External links== And it is good that there is more transparency, and the Greens are the party that stands unquestionably and most for transparency in that state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what we have seen is – and this has been demonstrated by the figures – that in a small sub-area regulations are likely to be superfluous, and that is why they are to be subject to a review. But I want to go to the meta level now. So we have a law, that has been true for two years, and we realize that not everything has gone completely around, we need to correct something. We had the discussion before about the new arrangements for the election at high school. There has also been some wrong; you have now corrected it. And at the beginning of today's session, we had the debate on luxury pensions – a decades-long injustice, because this is a completely unfair distribution. Red and black have approved such pensions. The blues, as the shark came to power, washed with plates, but did nothing when they were in power. And now it is the Greens, and above all our Members, Judith Schwentner, who say, we are finally going on these old stories. And then Mr Neubauer comes and criticizes Members Judith Schwentner, who have made their way through their commitment to the fact that we are once beginning to clean up this barn, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You are even more incompetent than the woman Schwentner – and that means what!]] That's the point, that's when it comes to: A misdevelopment has been recognized, and now we are doing something! And you, of the liberals, what are you doing? – They lean back and want into this swamp – and it’s a swamp! – do not intervene and shudder only, a solution is only possible in a field of tension, for which a two-thirds majority of people need the field of tension between contracts that these people have and where they say: [[Abg. Neubauer: What does this have to do with tourism?]] This is for me, and on the other hand for the protection of trust, which is a human right. With the two-thirds majority, we prevent these luxury pensioners from going to the Constitutional Court, which is why a third party is needed – and the Greens are taking part so that we can finally abolish it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... the ECJ decide! I don't know!]] But the second – and then you lean back finely, you love liberals; always lean back finely and just shudder... [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I come to the point: It also needs protection of trust, otherwise the luxury pensioners will go to the Court of Human Rights, and they would get right there. That is, the Greens are a party that criticizes and addresses luxury pensions when it comes to abolishing these luxury pensions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: We are in tourism!]] You, Mr Neubauer, do not want to make your fingers dirty in a thing where you have long had the opportunity to do so during the time you were in the government. You didn't trust yourself, you leaned back, you didn't do anything! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Neubauer]] You have slept, and we Greens are the ones that are addressing this issue, and I'm glad about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] In a few hours, we'll take care of this, and you'll get into the barn with your brawl.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11105	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11126	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to welcome a delegation from the New Middle School of Illmitz, the pupils and colleagues, to the High House. In contrast to my previous speaker, I would like to focus on this item on the agenda. Request 456/A(E) of the Supplements is an all-party application and has negative effects on Austria's advertising and on tourism marketing organisations in the federal states. ==References== In July 2012, there is an obligation to report media links and cooperation abroad to the Kommunestria. This causes enormous effort on the part of the local tourist operators, as we know – it has already been spoken of about 1,500 hours today – and also legal uncertainty. In the fourth quarter of 2013, alone, the Austrian media cooperation required more than 150 messages and required them. Austria's advertising counts the dosage of these 150 messages with about €70 000; that's what has already been said today. The proposal now before us aims to minimise the annual additional costs far beyond these estimates. Ladies and gentlemen. The tourism and leisure industry is still a success story in Austria, which is also shown in the 2013 tourism report. In this respect, we are informed that the number of nights increased by 1.2 percent to 132 million and the number of arrivals increased by 1.8 percent to over 36 million. A number might conclude: Tourism contributes 7.3 percent to the gross domestic product in Austria. As a speaker for rural areas and agriculture, it is important to mention, in conclusion, that tourism in rural regions contributes a great deal to ensuring jobs and increasing value added. I am optimistic that this will also be the case in the future. [[Calls and calls between MEPs Schwentner and Walter Rosenkranz.]] I would like to thank the House for its attention and also for the cooperation which has now led to two-way discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11177	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11199	Mr President. Federal Minister! It's about the effects of the media cooperation and promotion transparency law – really a word don't know what you're doing. I also believe that transparency in itself is good, but if you are so transparent that the competitor can do everything in and for himself, then you have to think about something. And that's exactly the same thing – if I can illustrate it by means of an image – : The competitor is driving on a motorway, and in Austria everything is done that we drive up a mountain road by car. Tourism has certainly not deserved this if one wants to be competitive in the future. One quote: The greater the quality that a sector achieves with its products, its advertising, its actors, its technological involvement, its range of ecology, its ecology orientation and its relations with its customers towards its main competitors in the main market, the higher its market share and the price towards its main competitors as well as its financial success. The Federal Minister has rightly mentioned this success story. – I ask: Is this a success story, or do we already see success in the light of the setting sun, where it may not even be there tomorrow? The figures are good: almost 196,000 employees, almost 37 million tourists and 133 million overnight stays. – Yes, that’s something quite, very great, and we see that the tourism industry for Austria is more than just a flagship. But if the criticism points raised by Mr Haider are correct – excessive bureaucracy, transparency for the competitor, actually a zero-sum game in a cost-benefit calculation – then you really have to think about what we can improve here in the sense of tourism. This means, in addition, that we say: This difference in all costs related to reporting obligations between € 360 and € 70 000 speaks for itself. And now I quote from the request: “In addition to the enormous effort caused by this law, the publication of the circuits means a competitive disadvantage.” The applicant shall not comply with the publication arrangements. We're making ourselves transparent where the others are hiding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, perhaps I would just like to mention three or four data – there is a large number of them – that should make us think. Mr. Federal Minister, you always have an open ear. Tourism in Austria is very good. I have been a successful tourist observer myself for a long time in the South Styria, and I have to say, I know what it means to be supported, but we also have to ask ourselves this question: What about summer tourism? - It's going downhill! Austria is losing to competitors. Tourists' stay is reduced, despite record numbers in respect of arrivals and arrivals, revenue is reduced. Apprenticeship training in tourism: 500 teaching places are occupied compared with 1,500 open teaching places. – That must give us, please, to think! Finally, another quote, by Dr Petra Stolba from Austria, which on the occasion of the Kahlenberger talks meant that it was important to make a paradigm change, and that "especially in the field of funding, one should switch from supplier to demand perspective. “In marketing, coordination means instead of competitive performance of tourism organisations.” I believe that this all-party proposal shows that we are on the right track – together. Tourism has no party color, it only wears the colors red-white red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11272	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 164 of the Supplements on the impact of the Media Cooperation and Promotion Transparency Act on tourism marketing organisations. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 24.) [[12:09:01]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on amendment 406/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on annual working time model in tourism (165 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11326	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11354	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that tourism is an essential factor in the Austrian economic system, and it is above all a huge labour market. Over the past few years and decades – crises to or from – employment in tourism has grown steadily, including the number of free jobs, but – but! – and I actually use every opportunity I have to point out this problem over and over again, the problem is that hardly anyone who has any alternative is really willing to work in this sector. The working conditions and also the remuneration are so unattractive that there is no one who really pushes in there except he comes from a country where he is economically heavily disadvantaged. That's a problem. Those who actually work there are highly dissatisfied. We know this because we always get a working climate index with the focus on tourism, which clearly shows that the people who work in tourism want to get out of this industry as soon as possible. We also know why they are so dissatisfied: They are dissatisfied, on the one hand, because of the poor pay – we may come to talk later on in the Committee's requests when it comes to the social security exemption of drinking funds; that is, one is poor pay – and on the other hand, the reason is to a great extent the question of working time. We know that the working time in tourism is unfavorable – evening, weekend work is one of those things that will be difficult to change – but usually it is also for a long time. [[Abg. Deimek: Police, nurses!]] We have recently had a debate on the extension of the maximum working day to 12 hours. In tourism, a 12-hour day or a 7-day working week in high season is not rare. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Normal! It's normal! For the guests!]] In high season, I agree with you, that's normal. I also know examples where there are more than 12 hours. The fact is that we have to face this problem: There is, on the one hand, a high potential on this labour market, on the other hand, not the willingness of people to work there because of working conditions. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Members of the Loacker, whom I do not see now – ah, there he is! ., in his request, says that our quest goes towards year-round tourism, which would depress a lot. – We all know that there are projects and efforts, but this does not work out, which simply cannot solve the problem entirely because of the structure. So, how do we deal with it now? – We can say that extreme seasonal tourism is something we do not want, because it is extremely environmentally harmful – the environment is massively stressed, the traffic routes are overloaded, are being expanded for two or three months, the natural resources are extremely overburdened only for a very short period – and because the locals are extremely stressed, they become foreign in their own places. There is, as it were, a structured society consisting of locals, tourism workers who are not locals and guests. In addition, there is the possibility of making the whole easy-to-bear, more compatible for tourism workers, and there would be a full-year work model a possible approach. Mr Loacker has not carried out the details of how this model should look, that is, we cannot now talk about the details. There are, of course, problems here, for example, there is the danger of the question of the calculation period, i.e.: How to deal with overtime in this context if the calculation period is one year? It would be important for us not to lose income in such a model. That must be clear. The fact is, with such a model many questions are open, but we would have liked to deal with these questions. The problem is, there are currently no further proposals to deal with the problem of extreme seasonality and non-preparation of job-seekers in this sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] So that would have been a possible approach. If it is now said that the social partners are negotiating in this direction, I must say that I am not happy with it. We know that the trade union is not particularly strong in the area of tourism. I therefore believe that we must wait a long time for a result, if any, and that this will not necessarily be in the interests of workers. As I said, I would have liked to look at it, and we in the committee have also agreed to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11416	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11437	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! High house! We debate the NEOS' request for annual working time model in tourism. Let me say, first of all, that we are against this request, essentially with two reasons: On the one hand, we see a clear competence with the social partners on this issue – there are discussions in progress, and precisely these questions need to be clarified in the balance of interests between employers and employees – and on the other hand, and that is almost more important to me, we cannot recognise any problem-solving competence in this proposal at all. If you look at the proposal, the importance of tourism for the economy in Austria is emphasized in the introduction. – The acquisition of this statement is, I believe, very modest. It is then assumed that we have plants with very strong seasonal fluctuations due to climatic and geographical conditions. – There too is the gain of knowledge, I think, very, very modest. Then the effects will be a little illuminated. Of course, seasonal unemployment has no disadvantages for those concerned, no question at all. It also has disadvantages for the economy because, of course, we have to pay contributions through unemployment insurance. That is to say, at up to 50 percent of the request, I say once, the gain of knowledge is very moderate and there is not much new experience. I then thought that once I have read half of the time, the proposals will certainly come up with what else you can do better, and at once, interestingly, the subject of short-time work comes into play. The applicant does so and says that in other sectors of the economy, short-time work is a suitable means of offsetting employment fluctuations. We know that short-time work is not easy for all those concerned – for the employees concerned, for the employers concerned, but of course also for the public sector – and, interestingly, the applicant comes to this conclusion by saying: Well, short work is actually not a suitable means for an annual work model in tourism. – I wonder why he wrote it in the request. I'll read on and think about it. Well, I am already at the last third of the proposal, but now I am sure a proposal will come what you can do better than that. – In reality, statistical figures will then be presented: It shows how many employees we have in tourism, the average unemployment figures are listed in tourism – so I can't see any problem-solving skills at all. I am then almost at the end of the request, and there is just a sentence there – the colleague has also made a similar statement that we do not know any details on this question at all, so I conclude – we need an annual calculation. The really essential questions, and this is already important to me, are not addressed with a sentence. With one word, we are dealing with questions such as how we deal with the year throughput, which is what the overtime supplements mean, which is for surcharges in enormous high seasons. – There is no answer at all! Personally, I also believe that there are very clear requirements for entitlement to unemployment benefit, and of course they must also apply to the employees in the tourism sector. I think that's very important. Finally, on the question of competence: At the social level, I think we should always think about how to make better models. This is very well taken up by the social partners. Finally, an advice – no, I do not have advice – to NEOS: [[Abg. Kickl: Counsels are also hits!]] Mr Strolz has just said that there are so many proposals and they are not heard. I would suggest to you that you make fewer proposals for this with more substance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11487	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11508	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I thank my colleague Mag. Hanger, who obviously spent many weeks in the exegesis of my application. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] There are clear arguments to be used so that one does not have to approach the application. For example, it is argued that this belongs to the collective contract level, and it is hidden that there are, of course, many working time regulations at the legal level. If today a company wants a transit operation, day and night and weekend, then you can see in the If the Minister adopts a corresponding regulation, that is to say that such a thing is permissible. I'm just calling an example. So one can quite call such things at the legal level. I agree that the question of overtime supplements is, of course, too clear. This means, however, that the conclusion drawn by colleagues from the SPÖ in the Committee is not acceptable to say: They want to abolish the overtime surcharges, and that's why we're against them! – That is not in the request! Of course, in an industry where the references are tending to be low, it cannot be operated on with the removal of supplements. It's completely out of the question. But not even wanting to approach the subject, although we know that especially in tourism, especially among tourism professionals, we have relatively many cases of unemployment, also relatively many cases of short-term unemployment between seasons, which I think is missing! And now, when – this leads back to the pension account – the pension account initial credits are sent, people will be aware that they are missing pensionable times. It would probably have been preferable for them to have a more continuous course of insurance. It is already our responsibility to ensure that people do not get out of poverty because they have been held in unemployment because our models have not allowed continuous employment. This is a social responsibility, I see it here on the left, in particular, but I would also see it on the right side, even though Mr Sozial Spokesman does not listen to me now. I call on you and invite you to enter into discussions on what a solution this might be in the sense of the workers in tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11559	Mr Mitterlehner, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11581	Mr President. Mr. Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now deliberately referred to Mr Loacker's report because I would like to address the current problem. When a finding is created and said: I would like to have annual working time contracts which would be better for all parties involved, that would be better social security law!, I say to you: Yes, but a contract must always be in line with what is the situation on the other hand. And we have stopped in tourism, what the situation is going on, through decades of development and through the natural conditions of summer and winter tourism. One will only be able to expand the offer in the direction of year-round tourism. While we benefit from the entire wellness and health sector, we also benefit from the fact that the hotels have more and more in the overall offer, as far as topics and other options are concerned to bind the customers longer, yet it has to be reversed. That is to say, one must first find the appropriate situation in order to be able to offer such contracts on the other hand. You can't assume from a wishful idea that you mean what something should be like and then make annual contracts. They have overlooked one thing: They do not act on behalf of the persons concerned, not on behalf of the workers concerned, because they want to do so in the Sai do not lose their overtime supplements, nor act They are absolutely in the interests of employers, because they also see problems offering a contract, if in fact it is only virtual and the worker is not there at all. The fact that I was right in my assessment will confirm to you the point of view of the collective contractual partners, because if they had observed this, they would have already presented it as a full-year working-time model and also implemented a corresponding problem solution. But we are there – as Parliament, perhaps with the mandate of the Minister for Social Affairs, he should present such a model – in a relatively unrealistic area. So you'd do something you can't do and whatever you don't want. It is about the reverse way of forcing the development of tourism throughout the year, because then the other model will automatically offer itself. On the first topic there is a sentence because almost every speaker has also spoken on the other subject: I also think it is right that we should simplify what is happening to tourism. The system is complicated and costs us something. But the tourism figures were very positive, and I do not want this discussion to be negative. We had 131 million nights, that was an all-time record. And in this context, what the future is about: We want 140 million nights in 2018. That means that we need market share anyway. That's a hard way. We don't lose anything, but we win, but we just have to face that. It is understandable that the Austrian advertising would like to have more money – you all probably too. We are dealing efficiently with what we have, and this is reflected in the success figures and also in the fact that we are more in agreement with the countries and communities. Therefore, existing resources can be used more efficiently. I mean, we're going a successful way here. The year-round model will turn out when we're ready. The reverse would not solve a problem, but would create new problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11639	The next item is the speech by Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11660	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! The discussions on an annual working-time model are not new, and this demand repeatedly arises in various collective contractual negotiations. I myself negotiate the collective agreement for the approximately 15,000 employees in the Austrian cable cars, which are also part of the large sector of tourism. We have also discussed very intensively about annual working time models, and we have achieved corresponding results for our industry. Tourism is not just gastronomy. However, the negotiations currently under way on a new collective agreement in the hotel and hospitality sector show that it is not about annual jobs, but mainly about cost optimization. For this reason, an annual working time model must be rejected by law. This issue should be discussed where the relevant competences are, where the relevant experts are and where the interests of all parties are represented, namely the social partners. Why do I say that? – The Working Time Act already offers the opportunity to allow a full-year calculation of collective contracts. For example, the collective contract for hotels and restaurants already contains the seasonal calculation. The disadvantages on the part of workers in seasonal work are shown quite correctly in the present proposal. However, the activity of the AMS, from the various reports available there, shows that businesses benefit from the possibility of seasonal calculation only for cost optimization, such as saving overtime supplements, and that it is not about creating year-to-year jobs. The records of the AMS clearly show that the breaks between the seasons are getting shorter and sometimes only two or three weeks between the seasons. It is therefore totally incomprehensible to me that the employees are not employed there all year round. So other factors have to play a role, for example the cost factor. But, obviously, continuous employment often fails only, I say, statistical reasons. The number of employees in the annual average as a full-time equivalent then always looks better in the balance sheet than if you have to indicate the total high number of employees. I think that this requires a massive rethinking of entrepreneurs. And although the present proposal does not address remuneration in the case of an annual working time model, this is an essential issue. One cannot discuss this without the other. The intention of any calculation is obviously to save overtime surcharges. In practice, an annual working time model would no longer be overtime and therefore no additional payments would be made. And this would be a further deterioration in the already low wage level in all sectors of tourism. This would lead to a further deterioration in the income situation, and we cannot and cannot allow this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11709	Next word: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11730	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! So far, this is a rather interesting controversial debate, which surprises me very much. It's true, yes, we're from the numbers of world tourists. That's incontrovertible, but why are we? – Because there are entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who use around the clock in tourism – belonging, it is – despite the most adverse conditions we currently have in tourism. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: And relatives!]] The tourism industry is moaning and suffering from the extremely high additional wage costs. You know that very well! And if there is not a change in wage additional costs soon, the seasons will be reduced even more. We see this on the spot: If Easter is late, businesses will block early because they cannot afford to “take away ” employees 14 days to make money again during the week two weeks later. Businesses are locked up! And this is precisely the opposite of what we want, the seasons are not extended, but are shortened because entrepreneurs are no longer able to pay the extremely high additional wage costs. And there must be a change! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am very surprised at today's debate. In the Committee, the SPÖ has been relatively limited. After today's speech by Mr Unterrainer, I must therefore ask: Mr Unterrainer, why do you not support the call for a budget increase for Austria's advertising also in the Committee? Mr Unterrainer, why did the SPÖ not assume its responsibility and enforce an increase in the double budget? Today, to make a populist demand, which is not implemented anyway, but is medially well overcoming, is simply too little for people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apparently the motto is: Every day, the marmot greets. I was in the National Council from 2006 to 2008, and we have already fought intensively for an increase in the budget of Austria's advertising. The budget has not been increased since 2002! And since then, the argument of the ÖVP is the same – Mr Obernosterer, I remember that you said in 2006 the same as they said in the Committee in 2014: You can also advertise efficiently with less money. If I continue this thought, that means: If we reduce the money even more strongly, then we have even more efficient campaigns and then we have achieved exactly the same. If that were just so easy – but it doesn't play. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] On the tourism policy of the Greens: Mrs Schatz says that it is necessary to disrupt the flow of travel and try to distribute tourism. - For God's sake! Tourism is service, and service takes place when people have vacations. And for Christmas, for example, it is now common for seven days a week to be worked because you can do a business there. In a service industry, I have to do the business if I have the opportunity to do so. I can't detach the whole thing. Back to the thing: As a Freedom Party, we are quite ready to talk about what is happening all year round work models that have quite their successes. What we are missing now is concrete concepts. We will contribute to this, and we will be reliably committed to the well-being of the employees and the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11798	For now, Mr Steinbichler is the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11826	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Listeners on the gallery and in front of the TV sets! I can say something about this topic, the full-year work model, and also about the previous item on the agenda, that was a six-party request, from two and a half years of painful experience as an innkeeper, because I am missing the truth here in this room: We can dream of something in a country where we have high season, low season and pre-season, but try to run a guest house or a tourism business once. I would like to thank, at this point, all those who have imposed and imposed this burden, namely, for their willingness to be available 365 days a year. All of us, as we are here, want to be served best at every day and night, and of course everything must be available. [[In the case of the Stronach team and the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] [[Abg. Rädler: What do we learn from it? A bad managing director!]] I can tell you the following – and a host speaker doesn't dare to say it, otherwise it won't be long –: I lost my best cook to a supermarket restaurant. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The furniture houses, the supermarkets can, of course, release the cook on the weekend, but what are the hosts doing? We want to go to dinner on Sunday, we want to be served best on Sunday. Let's talk about reality, let's talk about life, not what we want. This was Dietmar Schönherr, who made the program “Wish You Something. ” [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I believe that tourism is a model of success, and I would like to join you in this regard, Mr Minister. Mr. Obernosterer, you said you were investing tourism and hotels within 50 kilometres. I've learned Hungarian geography in Aurach and I'm asking you: Brazil, China, Argentina, New Zealand, they're at least 51 kilometers away, aren't they? – That's the truth. This is a delivery catalogue of local suppliers, which is the “Bauer ums Eck”. [[the speaker shows a prospectus]] They're called Metro, AGM, Wedl in Tyrol. That's the problem. I am in favour, Minister, of supporting this success story, that we continue this success story, but with all those involved. And there we have to be honest: Why do guests, especially our own citizens, the day guests or weekend guests, come to our regions? – Because of the good air, because of the good water, because of the beautiful, well-kept cultural landscape – and for that it needs agriculture. Agriculture, however, needs fair partners who taste and cook their products. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Otherwise, the saying “Taste of the Homeland” is true, when Polish guests come to Austria and get Polish pigs to eat here. But that, I think, is not our goal. We want to be authentic. We want Austria to be in there, too. That is why I am very sad, because it is very sad that the current government is being postponed in the committees, where the points of the opposition will be postponed – Mr Pirklhuber would have had a great request for TTIP, Mr Jannach would have had great applications for the AMA. We would have tried to establish a proper basis for the designation of origin with regard to the "AT" sign. It doesn't matter if we still grant 150 quality seals, because that's actually the confirmation that something's wrong. I should like to point out once again – this is the very decisive thing, and I have made the effort to present it –: [[The speaker shows a panel]] We can ask a veterinarian that, when he looks at a slaughterhouse – I have taken a pattern here, Mr Minister, for a slaughterhouse in which Polish pigs, Dutch pigs and Austrian pigs are slaughtered – where “PL” is attached to the earmark or to the living body of the pig with the stamp or “NL” stamps for Holland, namely “PL” or “NL”. That's also enjoyable. [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: But what does this have to do with the year-round work model?]] - No, that's the wrong approach. It is always said that it only confirms the suitability of pleasure, and I say it is the fraud mark. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with the subject now?]] Of course, this has something to do with the subject, because we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen – Mrs.ckinck, it is very important for you as an economic representative – about the environment, we are discussing the climate, and on the other hand we are bringing 2.2 million pigs and 100,000 cattle to Austria for slaughter, under the motto “lived death aid”, because if they see a mountain before the battle, it is more beautiful. That must be the only reason because I do not think there is an economic interest. It can't be that there's any economic interest behind it. That is why I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to both the government parties, both the conservative half, who say, to protect rural areas and farmers, and in particular the representatives of consumers and consumer protection: Let's stop this abuse! Let us make a clean designation of origin, because Austria must be in it where Austria stands, because this is a fundamental basis for strengthening this successful model of tourism. Let's help together, that's the best advertising for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11936	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the request from the Tourism Committee to take note of his report 165 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[12:38:48]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (140, p._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Constitutional Law on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Officials, the Remuneration Act, the Pension Law 1965, the Federal Railway Law, the Constitutional Court Law 1953, Article 81 of the 2. Stability Act 2012, the General Social Insurance Act, the Construction Workers' Vacation and Processing Act, the Workers' Chamber Act 1992, the Chamber of Commerce Act 1998, the Economic Lodging Act, the Civil Engineering Chamber Act 1993, the Doctor's Act 1998, the Dental Chamber Law, the Pharmacy Chamber Law 2001, the ORF Act, the Schönbrunner Tiergarten Act, the Austrian Research Funding Act mbH, the Austrian Economic Service Act, the AMA Act, the IAKW Finance Act, the ÖIAG Law 2000, the Federal Finance Act, the ASFINAG Act and the Federal Museum Act 2002 as well as provisions on pension contributions in the combined group and on pension schemes of credit institutions subject to the control of the Court of Auditors (Special Pension Restriction Act – SpBegrG) (151 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e11982	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e12009	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The pride of the Federal Government can be particularly pronounced on the special pension-limitation law now to be decided or on the so-called abolition of luxury pensions, for I am already in Parliament for so long that I can guarantee you: If you were proud of it and if you didn't have a very bad conscience on the inside, then you would have placed it prominently as TOP 1 on the agenda – the Minister was here – and would not have missed the chance that this would be transferred directly to ORF 2. - Of course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've cleared this all the way back, but you're gonna be all right. Your reasons for this. In reality, you should be more generous; You should get in front of the ASVG-pensionists for this work you're getting on the way today! I'm also horrified by the greens. That was an outing – which, by the way, it wouldn't have needed – a new outing in the field of climbing. We would not have needed this, we already know of the increase in political salaries: The Greens make the two-thirds majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We already know this from the increase in the promotion of parties: The Greens make the two-thirds majority. Now it is so with the incement and consolidation of unsustainable luxury pensions. - We wouldn't have needed this outing. Mrs. Schwentner, because you're shaking your head: You know, the salary for this month should be understood as a kind of scrapping premium for the social competence of the Green Group, which would be the appropriate interpretation of this salary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] I cannot save above all the SPÖ: With the ÖVP one knows that, but the SPÖ-Pension policy is a single nest of half-truths and untruths. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] We know this from the area of the ASVG, these are the famous increases that you can find out less after the increase than you had before – and it would be a miracle if it were different in the luxury pension area. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] To talk about the abolition of any unsustainable, immoral, indecent conditions in the area of luxury pensions is to be restrained, that there is even a harmonisation with the ASVG system, one must, I believe, interpret almost as perverting the facts. This has nothing to do with reality at all, and this is an increase of all ASVG-pensionists. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The truth is that in many, much more areas than it would have been necessary to maintain an unsustainable system of luxury pensions, for many years and decades – that is the one point – and that you establish a completely new area of luxury pensions, established in the Constitution, pro futuro, for the future. [[Abg. Schwentner: You've been able to do this for years!]] [[New call for tender Switzerland]] So you get an old one and create a new luxury board parallel universe for your customers at red and black, and the greens make you the robbers – the dirty work, could be formulated less purposely. [[Hello call and other calls at the SPÖ]] You haven't laughed for nothing, you've been happy, because you have to find the one who gives you his consent without need. You actually did it with the greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz:... properly shortened!]] This is my accusation to the Green Group, ladies and gentlemen: The law we're talking about here today comes on 1st. January 2015 in force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Today we have the 12th. ==References== If you had not fallen into contact with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mrs Schwentner, we could have put pressure on SPÖ and ÖVP over the next few months, so that we could really have been talking about a reduction in privileges. [[Interlocutory calls by Mrs Schwentner, Mr Musiol and Mr Walser]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you have not been able to expect it with the consent, you were with it immediately. [[Abg. Schwentner: Who fell down? You fell down...!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Darmann.]] I don't know if this is a change in the green doctrine. This is probably due to the fact that you are permanently involved in national governments and, of course, take account of the potential coalition partners, which is the point. Now I'm back at the SPÖ: Oh, my God! I would recommend the SPÖ to set up, after the section “Nadelstreifbanker” – which you already have – and the section “Golfklub” – that all comes from the Vranitzky era – now perhaps another section “Pensionsmultimillionaires”. Friendship, pension millionaire!, that could be the new greeting. Friendship, Comrade Pensionsmillionaire! That's what comes out under the spell – and that's going to house with the millionaire tax on a party that's now beset by an EU election, despite the wuzzis you've brought out of America. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhauser]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Neubauer]] “Millionary tax” is every third word with you, for which you have even installed your own State Secretary, who last blamed himself on television. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] Anyway: Mrs Steßl does not need long to look for these millionaires, she will soon find it. Perhaps you can explain to me, Mrs Oberhauser, what this is like, for example: How does this “massive” intervention and this “privilegation reduction” that you are supposed to set off today affect the pension claim of the Chamber of Workers’ Chamber of Muhm? That is why I call it the name because it is the inventor of the millionaire tax; that is the one who has thought all of this out and does not tire out to puncture anyone who deserves a little more in this country de facto as a millionaire. Mr. Muhm – we have once carefully estimated – has an active cover of €16 000, several Supervisory Boards, since 1992 is a member of the General Council of the National Bank, in the ORF Foundation Council – there are all these institutions together –, Supervisory Board of Vienna City Works, in which he sits inside, and, and, and. Perhaps you can tell us how much he will have less of a pension claim now after you have even entered so “massive”. I'd be excited. If you do not bring it together with Mr Muhm, perhaps with Mr Tumpel and Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell. Both are top earners from your environment, National Bank meets workers' chamber – two more of these institutions together – massive assets, and these assets are settled in massive pensions. We have carefully estimated that 40 000 a month could come out for both. And that's privilege reduction, ladies and gentlemen? - That's where the chickens laugh! I have to tell you this only once in this clarity, because I have not only since the candidate of Mr Freund – who does not take it so precisely with the figures and categories of income of the simple workers; how should he know this as a plush socialist than you have nominated him? – but in total, it feels that a little bit of the feeling of normality has arrived at the SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I need to give you some basic data so that we even know what we're talking about. The current figures, Mr Minister, for 2012 – you haven't been published yet, but it won't be much more –: The average ASVG-pension in this country is €1,023 – maybe it's a little more now –, €1,023! The average pension for working or employed women is €817 – it must be broken on the tongue! [[Abg. New builder: This is a scandal!]] The average self-employed pension – i.e. farmers and traders – is €948 a month. The average pension for self-employed women is € 715, which means that it is clearly below the compensatory allowance rate. That's the situation we're moving in. Of course, there is also an ASVG-highest board, which is currently 3 260 € gross per month. How many do these refer to? – Not even 1 percent of those inside the ASVG system! I understand that it is not particularly good for Mr. Hundstorfer to announce on ORF 2 or in all newspapers: Dear Austrians, I explain to you here, in the future the privilege rites will begin with pensions from an amount of €9 060 per month! – Well, that’s what I think is not particularly good, with an average pension in the ASVG range of €1,023. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why you're not well, and that's why the trade union comrades are already directing you to go to the 1st May celebration next year, not to cheer you, but to pummel you out of social justice for this issue, if you are at the same time bringing in here such things that mean an incement of unsustainable misunderstandings. That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we expect this once: €9 060 – I didn't even expect the ASVG maximum board to be added, of course; you can earn it, no problem at all! – are expected for the year 126,840 € annual pension. If you refer to this pension for four years, then - Bingo! – one is already above the magical 500 000-€ limit in which the SPÖ imposes the millionaire tax. That is a gross sum, so let us make it eight years: then I am double over it, then I already have the million, Mrs Oberhauser! So that's a strange interpretation and a strange double-soil with which the SPÖ operates: There you hunt the millionaires, and there you produce them. That's the point: They produce pension multimillionaires in their own field! [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Strolz and Mr Nachbaur.]] If you still charge the ASVG, then you are at an annual rate of 170,744 € – well, not bad –; with a reference period of 20 years, this is 3.41 million €. – That's not a millionaire?- Oh, my God! Are these the millionaires you're always talking about today with your decision? [[Abg. Oberhauser:... of air and love...!]] I have the feeling that some people in your group, who may still think it honest and who are out there with the people, do not know what is going on today. Well, you will have your dear need to explain this in the sections and the minimum pensioners in this country. I wish you luck! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's something else to do. There is this maximum pension – €9 060 – which is twice the maximum contribution basis – not twice the maximum pension, no, the maximum social security contribution basis has been taken. This is interesting, therefore, because in this maximum contribution base, of course, if you look at the development over the last ten years, the increase automatism is also included. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] So that's not a top board, but it's a top board that's getting higher and higher. Since 2004 until now, 2014, it has been €15 000, which has increased this maximum contribution base, i.e. in ten years you can already expect an increase of €15 000 – and I think this is particularly insidious, ladies and gentlemen. This has nothing to do with the elimination of privileges, that is to introduce privileges. And the Greens have missed the historic opportunity to finally do something after 30 years that they say: But now we have them, because the government needs some proof like the eyes in the head. You have shortened this procedure without need, but it must make an opposition politician stupid if the government says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] Quick, fast, fast, we can't go fast enough!; then you have to be careful, then the instinct has to tell you that something smells. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's going to be Her historical merit remains, Mrs Schwentner, as the robbers have made and made sure that this is now a first-class funeral for pensions! That's a part, these are the new ones; these are not yet the ones that already have expectations from the old system, which are much better served. And then there is the intervention of the existing pensions, in the so-called old contracts – some of them speak of old loads, no matter what –: This is always where reds and blacks have done any business among themselves at the expense of third parties, at the expense of taxpayers. These are the famous pension promises from the past: Chamber of Labour, Chamber of Commerce – wurst! There too one could have gone in much more heartily. We have calculated this once on the basis of figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs. Let us take a look at what this “deep ” cut means! Workers' chamber pensioner – you know, these are the ones that have become famous by Mr. Rechberger and otherwise notice that they take over SPÖ propaganda and make it, especially in election struggles – net old 4 055 €, net new 3 977 €; a monthly loss of 78,50 € – well, wusch! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] This is a fight against privileges, as the comrades probably imagine in the sections outside. Economic Chamber Pensioner – those are the ones where Mr. Leitel always calls for all possible reforms, but never questions his own Chamber; he should perhaps do that once – 5 119 € net old, 4 919 € net new, that is 200 € less; that is the new scheme. – That’s still quite neat! Or is this an incision that hurts? I don't think he notices that on the account extract. This is the dimension: €4 919 net. How high did I say earlier, is the ASVG average pension? – Just over 1 000 €, ladies and gentlemen; only for comparison, so that we know what we are talking about! There are of course also ORF-pensionists – these are with the forced fees, where you would otherwise like to be transferred; today it looks a little different –: old 7 245 €, new 6 630 €; a minus of 615 € net. The deduction is not very luxuriant now, and I do not really think that these new payouts will mean a real abandonment of living standards. And that's how it goes. You also have to look at how long all of this is still going on. I wish everyone a long life, the people are in good health, and we will have reached the middle of this century when the last payouts from this old system have been made. For this reason, too, one cannot accept this law well. There is a third reason, that is the area of validity. Where's the whole thing? It is already inadequate anyway, but it is only valid at the federal level for large parts. This only applies horizontally, but not vertically, downwards. Yeah, why not? We sit together at the Austrian talks, the Federal Chancellor and the Finance Minister, and say: Go, please help us with a two-thirds majority, so that we can finally start a reform and somehow take the countries to the Canadians! This would have been a great opportunity now, we have called for freedom of movement: Let us write in the Constitution that we expect the countries to have at least what is now, until 1. January 2015 will be implemented legally – not any promises someone makes in a western mood! Mr. Landeshuptmann from Lower Austria has already told you that he does not feel at all affected by this whole problem. Well, that's brave! And Mr. Häupl has already installed his entire system in such a way that you know that he works more in the other direction than in the one who has been hit here. That is to say, it is no different than that the federal states commit themselves to adopting such rules, and you also have a corresponding means of printing with the financial compensation, because those who do not stick simply do not get the money from the federal government. That would have been a possibility. We would have given you this majority, you didn't want to. They prefer to write in writing that the federal states have been stopped to understand. – That is, please, a funeral of the first class and, in fact, an admission of political courage. The longer I deal with it, the more I believe that it was less your goal to really reform, but rather to pretend a reform process, with the aim of protecting as many people as possible from your clientele for as long as possible – it is essentially loud red and black – and to demand them as little as possible. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: And Blue!]] That's exactly the point! I come to this conclusion very slowly, and therefore I believe that there is no good conscience here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, even through a liberal contribution, it has become better than what you presented to us at the beginning. I say this: A few teeth have been added, but the necessary bite you need to go in there once is far from that. An anti-privilege seal does not deserve this law in Weitem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Mr Federal Minister, you know, if you want to climb an eight-thousander – let me compare this with that! – then you can’t count it as a summit victory either, if you make it with tiredness and need to the base camp and maybe a few meters further. This is not a summit victory, and it cannot be seen as such in the world. That is exactly what you are doing now, as you yourself interpret this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e12300	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e12324	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl has set out in many figures all the median incomes and pensions of the ASVG-pensionists. Mr Kickl, I think you remember just as many of us here, as – I say – the rise of FPÖ began. The climb of the FPÖ began with Jörg Haider in a “press hour” or something similar and the question of the OeNB-pensions. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can you say something to the special board?]] So we all remember the Taferl – you can look at it on YouTube even now – with the pensions of the Austrian National Bank. That was when you read the papers in the nineties. They then came to the government in 2000 and the only reform that really intervened in pensions under black and blue has taken a massive part in the ASVG sanctions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And this reform would have been even more massive in the ASVG sanctions if the trade unions at that time had not brought 10,000 people to the streets who protested against it in the face of the pouring rain. [[Abg. Darmann: Hard to justify your own law!]] These are the only interventions that have happened, that would have been an intervention in the ASVG-pension of up to 30 percent – and you are now saying that you are the guardian of the little man. [[Abg. Kickl: Now we're talking about here and now! Say something to the pussy!]] Mr Kickl, please read to Mr Marin, so dear of you, in the "standard" today! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Deimek.]] Marin said quite clearly what you did. You have come up with it in the discussion – I have already told you that it was a very constructive discussion and a very constructive process with all the political groups – that this issue and the attempt of populist jealousy can be used to make small money and possibly big money. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But not finished!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Abg. Darmann: Beautifully speaking!]] And the election campaign has begun. It's more fun to say: We have done a lot, but all the teeth have not yet been pulled, so we do not take the small steps. [[Abg. Kickl:! It's enough to move!]] You don't take the small steps either, that is, you prefer to sit down and make populism out of them. - You don't mind. [[Abg. Kickl: If you can approve of this as a trade unionist, then good night, union!]] The Greens didn't make the climbers, or anything else. The Greens have opted for the constructive path, in view of what you have left, in the face of a non-taxation and a non-attack of luxury pensions over many, many, many years to take the first steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] We all said these are the first steps. We have not changed this from any limit to a limit of 9 000 now. That's too high for you, that's possible, that's all you've got to do, but you haven't done anything – nothing, cute, nothing at all! –; and you have gone out because the countries are not with them. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't seem to be!]] [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We could now make parallel, at the same time a federalism reform and abolish the countries. [[Abg. Kickl: Why don't you write it in the Constitution!]] You know very well that this doesn't work, but with the reason you're getting out and yelling the greens as a climber. That's bad, that's not all right! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We have achieved a lot more in the last few days together with the Greens. That is why I am also putting in place the amendment tabled by Mr Oberhauser and Mr Wöginger, who have been distributed and which I am now explaining to you in the broad outlines. The amendment concerns the draft legislation in the Committee's report 151 of the Supplements. It includes setting the limit for future pensions at the double maximum contribution base, at this 9 060, below € 10 000. And in the way. 6 is included in the last claim of the Court of Auditors, which is also mentioned here, to carry out a recalculation with the OeNB-pensions, with a simultaneous loss cover. Mr Kickl, we have been conducting extremely good negotiations since December last year. Much has gone on – the Schwentner Members have said it before – from 3 to 27 articles. [[Abg. Kickl: We should have left some time!]] – “Letting out a little time” means that you wanted to continue on the question: How do I get through? – And with a demand that would never have gone, because a federalism reform at the same time with a special pension scheme was clear to you that we do not bring it together. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, if it's a legitimate concern!]] It is always a pity that you have closed the way to carry it on a wider basis. We all know what the reason is: It's good, it's good to wear. As I said, even Marin says, it can make a good policy. [[Abg. Kickl:... acts as hellseeherin!]] They do this; in this sense, I think, the voters will hopefully not play there. Before I go now, let me greet the HTL Steyr, who hopefully listens to this discussion here, draws their conclusions from it and knows that it has failed to rely on a pension system, where there is also a constitutional protection and a legal claim for people with higher pensions, as well as for people with lower pensions. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e12568	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13063	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13084	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I want to start with the positive: These luxury pensions, which have been mutually approved by public authorities for years and decades, are being attacked. This is a real step. Existing special pensions are reduced, special pensions are limited. We could have imagined the cuts more strongly that we could have imagined this much further. But, of course, a blind competition. “Who offers less?” we didn’t want, and so far we understand quite well. It is also not clear enough that the Federal Minister has brought the opposition parties to a table and invited them to cooperate on this issue. He wanted – I believe him – to work out as broad an agreement as possible. Those who have participated in the work already see their traces in the result that exists today. I am sure that the Federal Government could save itself a lot of trouble in many other questions if it approached the opposition in a constructive form, as it did. As far as the extent to which existing pensions are concerned is concerned, I would like to point out once again the proportionality between large pensioners and small pensioners. The pension account allows ASVG insured persons to have a loss of up to 3.5 percent of their small pension, 1 000 € or 1 100 €. It's supposed to be theirs. But with these thick fish at €7 000, €10,000 and so on, we continue to enter pension at an average of 1 percent. There is a complete lack of proportionality! This underlines how much black and red have lost contact with the normal man and the woman from the street because they have no reference to the world in which these people live. I very much regret that the Greens are coming along and giving this package the support. We are also far apart in another question, namely: When is a pension a special pension? This is not so close to the government, and they say: We start with the maximum contribution base. – All people who receive their pension after ASVG or after APG never get the highest contribution basis, but always only one percentage of it! That's why you have to look at it differently. Approximately 70 percent of this maximum contribution base is what an ASVG insurer can achieve. With you, the privilege begins only about one and a half times. That is why we demand a limit where special pensions are calculated from the amount that can be reached for an ASVG insured person. It's a privilege. We want ASVG-pensions that such people have and the special board to be combined and viewed in a package. Then you can judge whether there is a special pension or not. That is why we are tabling the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then the ASVG will not be left out. We shall also make an extensive amendment which will be available to you. It is about the fact that all the percentages that are found in this draft law are adapted to the actual realities of the ASVG insurers. So don't always start at the maximum contribution base and cut in with a multiple of it, but start with the ASVG maximum board and cut away from there! A significant unhappiness of the draft lies in the fact that those who need to finance it cannot at all benefit from such a pension. As the Social Democrats explain to the workers who finance this, I do not understand. As the ÖVP explains to the officials, I understand very well because the officials are essentially freed from this law! When the Federal Minister invited us to this round of talks then, to the first round, you said in your jovial way: I know this is now the opportunity for the opposition to demand a few counter-businesses, but there is no such thing as that; we are now dealing with some old cases, and that's what's happening! – Old cases, yes, if there were only a few old cases, then we would be there immediately. However, in the course of the various drafts, it has been shown that a regulation will also be made for future cases. That is, we are now limiting pensions that are not yet available. We write in the Constitution that additional pensions are also permitted for the contracts concluded in 2015, 2016, which will cover people in addition to their ASVG-pension and their contribution-oriented pension fund. That's what I'm asking myself: What have we learned from the fact that the population is upset? What have we learned from the fact that the citizens are annoyed by the National Bankers and the workers' chamberers who abcasher? [[Abg. Kickl: These are the old contracts of tomorrow!]] – Nothing we have learned! It's being handled with public money, and it's yours. There are comparisons with the private sector! You know, it's none of my business to whom Mr Stronach or Mr Mitterbauer gave his pension; that's their money, not mine. But in public pensions it's very important to me! [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the Chambers, I think the procedure is particularly foolish, because the luxury is still financed from the member contributions. I also pay the Chamber of Workers' Obligation; I foam every month when I have to drop the money! The old cases are bad and painful enough. But instead of putting it off once and for all, we can now also arrange it for the future. We would have had the opportunity to take a big step towards a common and equal pension right for all Austrians. This will remain a lip confession. There is now a regime where the political establishment, which administers itself powerlessly through the past years of the government, still brings its sheep into the dry – and the greens participate!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13155	The applications are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13364	Before I give the floor to Mr Wöginger, I would like to point out that, in view of the temperatures and humidity in the plenary room, no one will be instigated by the masters of the sac and/or the tie. Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13388	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one more brief comment on the history of this law. The occasion was a very high pension at the National Bank. For the first time – and that has already been said here – this topic is addressed for the first time! The Federal Government has decided in late autumn to take up this issue with a Council of Ministers presentation. Since mid-December, all six political groups have been negotiating this law here in this House. So this is happening for the first time, I would like to stress that. Never before, not even under the government participation of the liberals, has this issue really been addressed seriously. Now there is a law that goes in the direction that these high pensions have to pay more security contributions. That is true, ladies and gentlemen, because we can hardly explain to the rest of the population that there are so high supplementary and luxury pensions. That's why we stand by it, and it's right! Debates of the European Parliament But the further we got to the finish line, the more the FPÖ has distanced itself from this joint round of negotiations. This is something that we can observe here in many of the laws that are difficult, which are complex materials: If it is then so far that we are doing what is feasible in the meantime, including from the point of view of the Constitution, then finally the FPÖ, the liberals, is going to waste itself so that they can argue populistly here. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that enough, just: That's not all right, even with this law! I'd like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Four areas were originally concerned, 27 articles are now being incorporated. All Court of Auditors audited companies, the ministries have registered everything where there are these types of supplementary and special pensions. But why do we need a constitutional majority? – That is why from the beginning all the political groups have also been talked and spoken. It's totally hidden today. It is as if we could simply reduce these pensions or cut them by 50, 70 or 80 percent. You know very well, Mr Kickl: You know very well that these people also have a confidence protection, that we are interfering in property rights here, that we are also in conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Kickl: They already complained at 1 percent!]] This is what Professor Hanreich said quite clearly and clearly in the Committee that it is likely that a case will be brought before the European Court of Justice. We here with the constitutional majority prevent actions from being filed at the courts in Austria because we decide on this law with the constitutional majority. But there are other... [[Abg. Kickl: Then we could have cut in even more!]] No, you can't cut in there anymore, because then this law will surely fly around our ears, ladies and gentlemen! And then we do not fulfill the purpose of making cuts in these luxury pensions, which are too high. On this we are, but from the point of view of constitutional possibilities. This must be held here once, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Then you go to the end and say, Yeah, but the countries aren't there. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] The countries are not involved, so to speak, the last argument to be able to get out of here. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, not the last!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It has already promised four countries, with Upper Austria at the top, to put it to the point, ladies and gentlemen. The empowerment is in the law. Therefore, one should not pretend here as if this would not be carried by the countries. Four have also already promised with broadcasts, even in the media, that this will be implemented for their areas. [[Abg. Kickl: The mayor of Vienna cannot expect it at all!]] I would also like to say what was decided in the Committee: a committee statement that a review by the Court of Auditors will take place after three years, in all the institutions concerned, both at federal and national level, whether this special pension limitation law has also been implemented in the respective areas. What does that mean in practice? – If a federal country has not been implemented, pressure will be exerted accordingly and pressure on the federal state will rise to take over this regulation as well. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last point: The liberals always explain to us: To implement the Court of Auditors' demands, finally to implement the Court of Auditors' demands! . We will implement all the demands made by the Court of Auditors in this area – then you would have listened to the Committee, Mr Neubauer! – the last claim concerning the National Bank. [[Abg. New builder: It's not true!]] There are very serious cuts there, but we also place the pension system there in terms of retirement age and throughput. This is still contained in the amendment. We are setting up a parity here with the other systems, and therefore all the demands of the Court of Auditors for this area have been implemented. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Then go here, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals – who always demand and polder this: To implement Court of Auditors' requests! – then put yourself here and say: No, we're not there, and we're not with that! – This is your true face in this area, ladies and gentlemen: first, negotiate for a time, then shoot and exit, and still do not take into account the implementation of the Court of Auditors' demands which you are always calling for. [[Abg. Kickl:... a smear decided!]] This is the true face of the liberals in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] You have to say that. Finally, I can say: I stand by all the pension reforms that have been made here. I have been a member of this House since 2002, and I am one of all – by the way you should – because the reforms in 2003 and 2004 were necessary and correct so that we can secure the system for future generations. [[Abg. New builder: You have to explain this to the SPÖ!]] We will also have to make adjustments and reforms in the future, because we cannot discuss demographic change. Therefore, there is also a need for future adjustments, which is no question at all. We must also have the courage to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I am also in favour of this law, because it reduces luxury pensions at an altitude which the people cannot imagine at all, and because in the future such heights will no longer be possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kickl: It can't imagine 9 000 € either!]] That's what's feasible, and that's what we're implementing with this law. Whoever does not agree with this, does not mean well with this matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13594	Mr Neubauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13616	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Today's debate on pensions – in particular, it's almost no longer about pensions, but in the end only about these luxury pensions to be decided today – shows once again in this House who is the social conscience in Austria. This is the Freedom Party as a social home party with its federal party Heinz-Christian Strache. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Wöginger, if you say that we are ousting ourselves from this debate, I cannot give you the right to go there, and that is not because it is not true in terms of content either. For when a law was passed on to the 1st century. In January 2015, it says the normal human logic and the understanding that one could have been able to sit together in every reason for at least two months until then to work out a common, good and better solution than the one that is available for decision-making today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we come back to the trigger for this malaise we have here today, then it is those who have referred to over €30 000 and more – one of which is hardly in this House, like Mr Pilz from the Greens – but also in the area of a luxury pension and in the area of a cheap municipal apartment. I think that is exactly the scandal that the Greens make up in their debate today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you have not received the Court of Auditors' findings here and today. You don't have that! Then you did not listen to the hearing of what the representative of the Court of Auditors said. [[Abg. Wöginger:... the application!]] In view of the Court of Auditors' views, you have concluded here today! That's reality. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when there is a massive increase in poverty in Austria, where in Vienna 25 percent of the total population already lives below the poverty line, where 425 000 people in a socialist-dominated town, socialist-led for 50 years, live on the poverty line, I believe it is also a moral concern to say: We cannot expect the people to come to people with such a result, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have no problem, Mr. Federal Minister and representatives of the Federal Government, today to transfer €205 million to family support abroad in 2013 but to sell a result of €7 million to €10 million as “success”. You have to tell the people in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this very reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance. Here you can show your social conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13708	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13808	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e13829	Mr President. High house! Dear viewers! Minister! Mr Kickl, I am now slowly wondering who fell down. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You! That's clear!]] - Not us. I'm very sincere here. And I can stand quite well for what we have negotiated, what we have done, and what we are voting on today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, bravo!]] In contrast, you have not only fallen down once and today again. [[Abg. Kickl: Why did you agree to the adjournment?]] – I voted in favour of the postponement because I would have been quite willing to continue to negotiate. We have also negotiated for half a year and negotiated very good things, unlike you, who have watched you for half a year and then suddenly come up with them: Oh, it's about something, it's about big things that you should actually negotiate anyway. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] But I would like to start from the beginning with regard to the fall. You fell down. Because what does it mean not to vote for this today? Not to vote in this House is to continue to be true to this old system, to these old luxury pensions that have passed for decades, which are immaculately high – as I am with you – which are the third contracts that were up to €32 000 and higher and which were the trigger for this debate and this broad law that is now in place. Not to agree with this means to continue to be faithful to this old system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Not agreeing to this means that everything remains exactly as it is. You'd take care of it, Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: We could have renegotiated if you had not agreed to the committee!]] And you didn't do anything exactly in the phase before that. The colleague Oberhauser has already described this quite well. [[Abg. Kickl: You threw yourself red and black at your neck!]] Overall, I would still like to get back to the beginning: We started with the Austrian National Bank at the time. We started with a matter where it was about finally dealing with insolent luxury pensions. By the way, you would have had the opportunity to do so in your Black-Blue government phase, and the name Haider has already liked it. When we started to discuss it, there were three materials: These were the Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Austrian National Bank. We have managed to expand the materials to extend these companies from three to 27 in this half year – in which we have seen little of you, dear FPÖ, – the ORF is there, now there are all chambers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, that was you?! That's really sweet!]] – Yes, we were, by chance, too, because we have constantly negotiated and tried to bring in many things. [[Abg. Kickl: That's really sweet!]] - We were. We were there, you fell down. Yeah, that's it. We have not only managed to do this, we have also managed, for example, to bring in the subsidiaries of the associations. That also happened at the suggestion of us. And we have managed to reduce the ceilings very clearly. And to reduce clearly means that in new contracts, the originally planned ceiling of €18 000 – that was the salary of the President of the National Council – is to be reduced to €9 000. That's a performance. And we succeeded. They weren't there. You didn't negotiate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And one thing I would also like to say: It's still too high for us. It was still not understandable why we have to make the maximum contribution base after the ASVG and not the maximum pension. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what we'd have taken away!]] The highest board would be comprehensible to the people, because that is the highest they can get. We have tabled a motion for a resolution and today we have tabled an amendment which you are happy to support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You could have carried this concern to support the maximum pension as a basis and ceiling much earlier with us. But there you slept and I didn't know where, as in the many years past, in which obviously not the luxury pensions were looked at. In this sense, I would like to make a further amendment by Mrs Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, who should now be present to you. The main points are the above-mentioned maximum pension instead of the maximum contribution basis and the protection of contributions actually paid. I would like to mention once again that I already find this alliance between NEOs and FPÖ a little unholy, also in the sense of solidarity with people. And you, Mrs Colleague, have just explained to us what solidarity in the pension system means, namely, buying shares. [[Abg. Stroll: You have been wrapped!]] This is what a solidary pension system of the future looks like: Private pensions with shares to finance. That's your idea of ankle fit? I think that's quite embarrassing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not solidarian. Solidarically, it would mean continuing this path together now. We have taken a first step in reducing these luxury pensions. [[Abg. Kickl: Very solid! I guarantee you, it will have been the last!]] First step! It has not been done enough, but it would have been the opportunity to go together and address many other things, namely, in the sense of a truly uniform and solidary pension system. But I find that neither there nor there. [[Abg. Stroll: You've been laid down!]] Obviously there were She's not there all the time. [[towards FPÖ]] They were present by the NEOS, but unfortunately the day after the EP election happened, also very strange. But if it is, we'll carry it on. [[Abg. Kickl: You were pulled over the table!]] – No, we have remained upright and have contributed to the fact that a state that has existed for decades is at least limited to a certain degree. And I can stand for that. Because the big deal would mean that we are maintaining this state for decades to come. At least limit luxury pensions is the alternative, but you haven't seen them. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14062	The amendment has been presented in the key points, is properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14493	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14515	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have, honestly, not expected anything else on the part of the liberals; for one participates in negotiations, at the beginning of the negotiations, even the President of the Party – contrary to here – it was never foreseen that mine should come, but it was always planned that the club members should come. [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't come, that's right!]] - And then you start. It's after 40 years, I think, the first time that a law came into existence at all by first presenting only one sheet of paper, because we wanted to work it together. And some have taken this very seriously – I thank you for that. Those who have taken this seriously represent change, and those who have not taken it seriously are in fact in favour of further freezing of an existing system. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, if one comes to the conclusion that there has really been something going on, at the end when one comes to it, there are not four but 27 institutions, if one insists that all Ministries report everything, if one insists that, because of this news activity, at once, areas of which one has not thought, honestly, that there are still those, then one does something that in this house, means “pull-pull” in that country. Then all of a sudden, the agenda has to be kept in place to play the “pull” thing through. Do you know, Mr Kickl, why this has been postponed? In the meantime, I have had to open a high-ranking international congress on occupational medicine, on health at work in the industrial association. [[Abg. Kickl: We already know when it is important and for you politically a success, you stand there at any time of day and night!]] – No, that was a very, very important congress that I opened together with colleagues Stöger. This was a very, very important issue, and it was open and honest, because it concerns people at work, health at work and so on. [[Abg. Kickl: It's always about people!]] So that we can make this clear again. I am not going to go to the level of your argumentation by mentioning some names here and saying what kind of pension they have and what they deserve. Dear Mr Kickl, look, I'm not. I could also say that you disclose Mr. Karlsböck's income, disclose the income of your lawyers, You can open everything, and you can also open up which pension funds they have! – I don’t think we need to move at the level. You know everything. What the individuals have is correctly secured by the rule of law. If they are now affected by this law, then they are affected, because the railway is over it, I don't debate for long, that's what it is. I think you should screw the level of argumentation a little higher. What's this about? . It is simply a question of having taken a Court of Auditors report seriously, including today's amendment. I would like to invite you, go to the President, including today's amendment, and you will hear there, contrary to what the honourable Member has heard in committee: 100 percent of my recommendations implemented. – I expressly note, including what is being proposed as an amendment today. As a result, we can say that it is likely that a 100 percent Court of Auditors report has been implemented for the first time. [[Abg. Moser: We could do that more often!]] - Yeah, we could do that more often. They make themselves here and say: Mr Minister, you're wrong, because shoe says something else! – Mr Neubauer, believe You really are that the “Blechtrottel” of the main association – apologise for the expression – the computer system of the main association, the computer system of pension insurance, that all experts who work there every day and spend numbers are all mistaken, just because shoe says something else? Faith Is that what you really do? [[Abg. New builder: You have confirmed him yourself!]] I didn't confirm the shoe at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Faith Is that what you really do? People got the bill in Carinthia. They were in Carinthia in the government. Do you know who benefited most from the pension? – The national and municipal staff! I was the chairman of this union and only wondered what was going on there. Cleared in Vienna, cleaned down in Lower Austria, cleaned down in Styria, cleaned down everywhere, only in Carinthia there was a plus at once for the national and municipal staff of Mr. Haider. Or isn't that one of yours anymore? Don't make this so primitive! Populism in all honours, but it's pretty slow to outdo it with this populism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: And now we have it at Mr. Häupl! Go to Vienna to Häupl!]] That's the same thing. They present themselves as the guardian of the little man and submit a proposal that costs 6 billion. Explain to the people how the 6 billion will ever be financed if you are not even involved when it comes to bringing down pensions from 30,000 to 20,000! That's your contribution to the little man! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You're not even ready to do that. This is the true background of your activity. Don't be angry, the so-called little man has a protector, and this is, besides social democracy, currently the Austrian Federal Government – so that there are no coalition problems so that there are no coalition problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, bravo!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude. I know what we've done here is a meeting. I would like to thank all those who have participated, especially those who have participated to the finale, thank you also to the staff of all ministries, because it was called on all ministries to make contributions here – a thank you. I know that's a law with which none of us will reap laurels: It's too much for those concerned, others it's far too little. It is perfectly clear that no one can explain that we have now reached a ceiling in the Republic for the first time, in order to create legal certainty here at all for the future. Of course, one cannot really explain this to an ASVG compensation beneficiary. However, the fact is that we have for the first time reached a ceiling in this country, because we do not know what is going to happen in the future with some disunity. I don't know if and what a distributed board of directors invents at once in five, ten or 15 years. That is why we have for the first time set a ceiling, and it is quite clear that there will, of course, still be many emotions. We're going to inherit a few more processes. I hope that then all those who are so massively opposed to it will also be solid in the processes, if we lose one or the other. I hope so. The fact is, this is something that has developed in this Republic, where people have been active; for what you know too little: There were also prominently prominent members of the General Council, who took part in many service orders. You forget that so elegantly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The past is clean, and it is redesigned for the future. I beg and ask for your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14663	Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14684	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! I do not entirely agree, because you know that we have very much supported this, but Mrs Schwentner has called us here in the same breath with the FPÖ. We have negotiated this package very intensively, including Mr Loacker, and we have been committed to it from the very beginning, because we think it simple and important that we take an essential step here. But please, we have not cleared up with the past, because it remains – and you know that – the big problem of the entire special pensions in the federal states. There have also been joint initiatives by the Greens and the NEOS to call on the countries to implement this scheme. Of course, if one had gone a step further in order to enter real federalism negotiations and negotiate with the countries, it would have taken much longer. That's clear to me. But this is also a big problem. If, at the federal level, we see it as a success that we include 27 close-to-state companies – i.e. distributed societies – from the field of impact, we need to know at the same time that there are about 7 000 to 8 000 distributed companies in the federal states, where, although admittedly, such special pensions will not be found everywhere, but in a part. You have to look at that, because this is of course exactly this supply area in which you, valued SPÖ and valued ÖVP, have constantly cared for your people over the last decades. And there's the dimension that's still open. That is why the past has not been cleaned up, but compared to the 7,000 to 8,000 societies in the federal states, it is only in a very narrow area. Now I'll be right back – I mentioned it this morning – to the state of Vienna, where the Greens are in the government. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's why they had to agree!]] And here the appeal and also the incomprehension to the Green Group to act more strongly when Mrs. Stadtratin Frauenberger writes that one does not intend to understand this in any area, because the officials of the municipality of Vienna would in no way be comparable to the officials at the federal level, since quite different tasks have to be performed. Whether or not something is being done, you have to look at it first. - I really can't do that. You are there in government responsibility, and you must also look to Vienna to understand this regulation in the foreseeable future! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But it is not just about the past, it is also about the future. Mr Bundesminister, with the amendment tabled by SPÖ and ÖVP, which is present today, in which you are setting this ceiling for the future, as it were, and once again have gone down from triple to double, you are already showing that it is not true when it is said that the luxury pensions will end. This will not end in the future, but instead of taking a courageous step and putting everything under the single pension regime, we will be able to earn €9 000 in addition to the ASVG-pension in the future. That is why we cannot carry this because we do not want to be made the climber for the future luxury pensions in this Republic in the field of SPÖ and ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14727	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14748	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a country of self-government. These self-government bodies are no longer to be thought away from our socio-political reality. Imagine, we have 113 chambers, 987 Chamber-like professional representations like 596 specialized organizations, we have 22 social security funds. That would be right and good, all right. They all manage themselves. They have elected bodies, and they decide to have their own privileges if they consider it to be good and correct. In recent years, it has unfortunately been so with us God in many areas that representatives from all political groups, including the FPÖ, were in these bodies, have decided to create their own privileges, and then, if they have had too little money, have been running to the taxpayer, to the Federal Government, and have said we need money again. That is exactly where, ladies and gentlemen, injustice lies. If these representatives in the bodies had generated profits, worked positively, produced surpluses, then no one would have anything against high pensions. But since these people have often demanded money from the state – on the one hand, they have asked the taxpayer to check out and on the other hand have built up their own wealth – this is a system that we can in no way carry. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors points out in many areas what we should change. And who am I asking, if not the Court of Auditors, is the appropriate body to advise us? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I believe that the Court of Auditors knew very well what recommendations it gave us, and we have implemented them. I see this as the first step in a long way. I don't see it as the end, for me it's not the end. We are now on the long journey for more justice in the field of pensions or even for more justice among the generations. If we are talking about the cover, I am right, Mr Kickl, a special pension of over €9 000 is an insanity, which cannot be understood by a single ASVG-pensionist. That's where I'm full of your opinion. But if, for constitutional reasons, we do not yet manage to take greater steps, then we must take the small step. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Again: This is about pensions that have not been paid for, which are not justified and which are actually the next generation towards a huge cleaner. In this sense: They're not reasonable to me. With good conscience, let us change this system! I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution because we believe that à la longue will remain nothing but a single system to create a state-of-the-art system. establish the pension system, which is truly transparent and fair and treats everyone equally, without any privileges. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14842	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14916	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e14937	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A great deal of strength has been spent today, especially on you, Mr Kickl, when you once again took a very deep grip in your populist way, but of course have confused pears with apples, things that absolutely do not fit together, communicate here and once again act very populist. [[Abg. Kickl: Both are fruit!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It would be much more honest if you had turned out here and said: We do not agree, because we simply want to receive the €34 000 penalty. That is what you want, and that is what you do by not voting in this House today. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] As you have also included the ASVG-pension, I would like to say once again, Mr Kickl: We have a great system. [[Abg. Kickl: For you!]] For more than 70 years, stability and security have been ensured for the older generation; and, ladies and gentlemen, we do not let this be done by you. [[Abg. Kickl: You're still fine now, but!]] We stand for a pension system that is actually a success story. Of course, corrections and re-regulations are always necessary, and what we decide here today is a further development in our pension system. There will no longer be inadequately high special pensions in the future. There are the two variants, up to the maximum limit of €9 060, and there is also the provision for existing pension schemes to be intervened here via pension insurance contributions. I'm a little surprised. It has already been mentioned today: The discussion and the process that has now been conducted here during this legislative process is unique. I have already noticed in the Committee that this has been very constructively dealt with there. There have also been proposals taken from your side until you have just scratched the curve. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Because the demands of the Court of Auditors have been raised, ladies and gentlemen: The demands are more than fulfilled! The pension contribution was introduced, the retirement age was increased, the calculation was introduced. And as far as the pension contribution is concerned – this must be seen cumulatively. I therefore believe that the demands of the Court of Auditors have been met. [[Abg. New builder: Are you talking about the luxury board now?]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What age of arrival have you increased? For whom?]] There is actually no alternative. The alternative would be not to decide the law today. Then the original condition that we now have would remain true. But we don't want to. That is why I believe that there are still possibilities to go into it today, to turn in and to vote in this decision-making process – including for you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. And since it is always said that there is often disagreement between the government groups, I would like to prove the opposite today. The colleague Tamandl has a visit from Eisenstadt today on the ranks. They are the students of the 4th century. The year of the Theresianum in Eisenstadt. Welcome to our centre! Welcome to you! [[General condolences.]] You visited the colleague Tamandl. – I hope you have listened carefully to the discussion today and you can draw conclusions from what we Social Democrats and the other two government groups, namely the ÖVP, want and what the populists of the FPÖ are planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15064	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker makes a brief statement.]] – Silence is also something different. These minutes can also be used to make sense of those who are upset by the charge. You should at least return the church to the village or leave it there at all! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes, is an interesting saying!]] As always in such debates, the question arises: Is the glass half full or half empty? It will not surprise you if my findings fail so that it is at least three quarters full, measured by what is possible. [[Abg. Kickl: A quarter is empty!]] I'd like to argue from there. My God, in such debates it is often not only the matter itself, but it is about the motherhood and paternity dispute, depending on how one evaluates it, or even who is guilty. Now I too am going to make a contribution to this. Now we have had decades where the subject should have always been one. Then there have been years, these were the recent years of the past, where it was very probably a topic, but nothing exactly happened – not even to the last National Council election. Mr Hundstorfer, if Mr Faymann and you and Mr Spindelegger had known how close you were to saving your majority, you might have tried this before! In fact, the meeting of many events has led to the fact that something has come into motion at all, and the greens also have a share of it. Now you have to look at the history of how in this republic something goes on at all. It is usually a similar mixture: The public pressure will eventually become so big – and I say here, by chance – that something has to happen. What was it like? – The really absurdly high pensions in the National Bank have become public again. There everything has taken its course, and it is really totally unacceptable how it goes about there. - That's it. The media have partially, at least individual formats – it is just chance that I say so – campaigned for their possibilities and put pressure on this matter a few times; and it has also worked, also at the Minister Hundstorfer. In addition, the representatives of the National Bank, ex-Governeurs, governors with appendix, have not given the best picture in the public. One of them is sitting on the dock, because a lubricating fee has been paid somewhere, because daughters of the National Bank have bought any orders in Syria or elsewhere; others are again leading a task force, which tells the government nothing but to tax the taxpayers at a maximum; others have failed in custody before. And this whole amalgam has led to the fact that the National Bank's peaks have rightly become public criticism – and then with these pensions. Now there is a historic opportunity to do something, and this opportunity has been taken by individual members of the opposition. It is completely wrong to present that, if there is a two-thirds matter, which will then also receive the necessary consent, one always argues that this was always a matter of government. I just proved it was the opposite. Black and red haven't done anything in this causa for decades. Only the mixture of awakened opposition representatives and public pressure has led them to do so – as is often the case, with transparency laws and many other things. In this respect, we cannot now be grateful from our point of view, but perhaps a little proud, that is, proud that something has finally gone on; and this in full awareness that three quarters still means “one quarter empty”. Of course, and that will continue to happen. I do not even now want to practice criticism, perhaps not so much at the Minister or at the Bundes-ÖVP and -SPÖ, because I know the real constitution in this country, and it is annoyed enough. It's bad enough that the heads of state get together again and again. It is still enough for this to happen; there is still enough energy to evade what seems to be useful to the Federation here. It is the cowardice of the SPÖ delegates and the ÖVP delegates and the head of government – yes, and we regret this – that, if we already organize a two-thirds majority, we do not get to take it with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That's a weakness. [[Abg. Kickl: This is more tactical inability!]] Mr Kickl! Finally, because you're just trying to get an intermediate call: That's true. On the other hand, we will not be so stupid and for many federal institutions – Mrs Schwentner has listed them – where at least radical restrictions are being made on the excesses of the past, which are not doing now, just because the countries are not yet doing so! But we could've done it, and we'll start further calls so that we can succeed. We will not even need a Court of Auditors to look closely at the countries, including where greens are ruling. I say this quite frankly, and we have also talked to our Members of Parliament and Members of the Government about the best way to adopt the standards as far as they are transferable. That should be. It would have been better if we had it in the Constitution. I also see that, because these special sausage sausages, which are always fabricated there and then really are roasted, are really a duck in this country. But as has been said, we are adopting a law for a very broad scope which we would not have had without green negotiation success, and for this broad scope we should have it. The government has gone along – in fact, with an opposition initiative and with media pressure; and if you prefer to continue sitting in the log of the “Balkon-Muppets”, because it is looking a little more populist there, this is what you do not mind about the FPÖ. Why the NEOS want to join the “Balkon-Muppets” party, they will still explain themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15163	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15184	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There was some reasonable one in the speech of my previous speaker, Mr Kogler, I could also sign a lot. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Everything was reasonable!]] It helps, however, if you want to interpret things properly, looking at the calendar. That is the crucial point in the whole matter. Her negotiator from the Greens has betrayed herself. She said that she agreed to the amendment because she wanted to continue negotiating. - That's exactly what we wanted. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brunner and Mr Schwentner.]] Behind what we now have, we would never have fallen back again, even at the end of the year, even if we had not negotiated any more. I cannot understand why you give rise to negotiations for half a year and throw yourself red and black at the neck, so that it comes to a decision quickly, quickly, quickly, before the summer break. Either you have to go over the table or it is a gift to your coalition partners in the various federal states. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! They say we worked this out together. - Yeah, that's right. We started together, and maybe this in the SPÖ is such that you stop how to start. However, we have come up with more and more where it smells everywhere. I have not mentioned before the area of pension funds, which is now completely hidden. You didn't even look in there. Can it not be that many institutions, which also finance themselves from tax funds or compulsory membership contributions, equip their employees with lush contracts from pension funds? Can't that be? Shouldn't we look inside? That too was a liberal concern, and there too You'd rather throw the spell over it, instead of saying, we'd be looking at it. So you can't go along with that good conscience. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As you always stretch the past: The fact that such a thing becomes possible at all – in the Chamber of Labour, in the Chamber of Commerce, in the social security funds, in the National Bank – is also a proper, a proper portion of control failure. This check failure in this Republic is 99.9% red and black and nothing else at all. That is the point, and we should also talk about it once again when we look at the historical development of these things. And because you're asking what the FPÖ did: Mrs Oberhauser, please correct me, but I do not believe that every week in this country a demonstration of the trade unions you led against the unsustainable conditions in the luxury pension area would have taken place. Or am I cheating? You have not considered it necessary to demonstrate against everything possible, but against the luxury pensions, because it would have been yours – almost I would have used a word that would have brought me a call for order – people who are the beneficiaries of this system. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We've been lying for half a year because the greens have fallen by. In the case of appeals, it is necessary to: They are also not so modest as to be: At the National Bank it is sufficient to increase 1 per cent in the pension insurance contribution, and already the comrades – trade unionally represented – have run and have processed. That's how all the cleaners came up. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Whether you cut 20 percent or 1 percent, that's sausage, it'll always be the same. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, it remains a new greeting in social democracy: Friendship, Comrade Pensionsmillionaire!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15252	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15291	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In his speech, Federal Minister Hundstorfer claimed that Dr. Schuh was not right with his claims and that he or his ministry had not confirmed these accusations either. That's why I'm actually correcting: ==References====External links== May 2014 reports the following: “In the first quarter, the retirement age increased by five months, most recently said the Minister of Social Affairs of Hundstorfer and thus referred to the calculations of his place of business. That's correct, but it's beautiful. Because one of the pension reforms no longer includes previous invalidity pensioners under 50 years of age, because they now no longer receive a pension, but rehabilitation allowance. This is confirmed by the Ministry of Social Affairs (...).”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15338	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Since extensive amendments or additional amendments are being tabled and a brief interruption of the sitting is not sufficient to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to a later stage. I will announce in good time when the vote on item 5 can be taken. We shall continue on the agenda. [[14:01:19]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 383/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on de-bureaucratisation of the application of the Red-White Red Card (152 d.a.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 385/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in a federal law amending the Ausländerbehungsgesetz as well as the Branch and Residence Act (153 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 303/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the country of origin principle in the field of minimum security (155 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 326/A(E) by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, colleagues on the abolition of Bartenstein's decree in terms of the prohibition of employment for asylum seekers (156 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 396/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues in the field of private employment agencies in the field of unemployment care (157 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15451	We come to points 6 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15481	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciated guests on the gallery as well as spectators in front of the screens! Two requests which we are now before us and which we will be discussing once again in plenary after the discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs, concern the necessary and overdue reform of the so-called Red and White Card – a subject on which we have discussed here in the House several times and in detail. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, especially those who were represented here during the last legislative period, will remember that the Greens have raised concerns before the decision of the current form or the first form of the red-and-white-red card. Although we welcomed a system based on a mere quantitative restriction of labour migration and on certain qualifications and characteristics, we have said at the same time that the Federal Government is actually taking only half a decision. To the outside, obviously the goal was to send the political signal, there would be a system change here, that the Federal Government had learned from past mistakes that the system would be changed. People, especially well-qualified people, but also young people who have completed training in Austria, are to receive the signal that they are legally working in Austria, are able to stay in Austria and are allowed to settle in Austria and that this is desirable. Now, two and a half years after this decision, we know that this has not been achieved. Now, of course, the Federal Government can say: We wanted to send this signal, but actually we didn't want to do it. We were concerned with a political gesture, but not really about a system change. We do not want to keep young people who have been trained in Austria here, they should leave the country again. But what is happening right now is anything but a good solution. The subject is anything but well solved, because while on the one hand this political signal was sent by the Federal Government, on the other hand the red and white red card does not work. This proves not only figures, but also cases like those of a young lady who was published by SOS Mitmansch about a year and a half ago: A young woman who came from a Latin American country who had completed several university courses here was nevertheless unable to meet the criteria of the so-called red-and-white red card. Finally, only because of public pressure has it come to such an extent that it has received a work permit and a residence permit to live here and work legally. I am not going to repeat everything that we have discussed here in plenary or the Committee and what would be necessary, namely, on the one hand, a life-oriented design of the income requirements for the Red and White Red Card – if you want it to work – and at the same time a reduction in the obstacle, so that the Red and White Red Card, where a Master's degree is currently required, will also apply in the future to young people who have successfully completed Bachelor's training in Austria. This reform is obvious. Nevertheless, the government groups in the Committee did not give their approval to these requests but rejected them. That's anything but a problem solution. You can refuse as much as you want, but you won't solve the problems with it. The second and next point, which I would like to address – unfortunately, my time is relatively short – is two other requests on today's agenda, which are somewhat limited. that asylum seekers and asylum seekers in Austria will not be condemned for months and years to nothing, but that they will be able and able to stand up for their own livelihood. Since 2004, a decree has been made by the then Minister of Labour Bartenstein that these people are only open to prostitution – I stress once again: prostitution – as well as harvest and seasonal work. These are unsustainable conditions. Repeated advances by the Greens, which change and give asylum seekers and asylum seekers legal, legal access to the labour market so that they can provide themselves, have been rejected several times, most recently in the last Committee. A corresponding request from NEOS was also rejected. In this area too, of course, the Federal Government can choose to put the head further in the sand and say: No, even those who are able to work and who are willing to work, should be forced to work for years, so to speak, should be supported by state support, even if he says he wants to go to work, he wants to take care of himself. There is obviously still a great need for learning in the Federal Government. On these two points, we will not vote in favour of the Committee's report. I would like to urge colleagues from the government groups to stop this policy of head-in-head sand, because that is why you are prolonging the problems. They do not solve you, but you ensure that this problem continues. It is in your hand to change this here and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15539	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15560	Mrs Korun, I think I am blaming the government, doing only half of things on this issue, or even putting the head in the sand, is unfair, for we are far away from it. You certainly also know the government programme, in which it is clearly stated that debureaucratisation, which reaches the red-and-white red card, has to be evaluated and on the other hand the red-and-white red card is to be further developed in order to bring about further modernisation. Especially in the field of labour market services, I cannot recognise, honestly, any need for change. That is why we voted against the NEOS' request, especially since the deadline for the issue of the Red and White Red Card is only eight weeks in accordance with the Constitutional and Residence Act, and the AMS has only four weeks in advance to examine all the conditions in order to produce a labour market policy opinion. You know very well that this labour market opinion will also be sent to the residence authority, which will then review the conditions as a whole. The criticism of the long period of proceedings – and I give you the right – is therefore addressed to the local authorities, which often significantly exceed the eight-week decision-making period in Vienna. However, the eight-week procedure laid down in the law is also appropriate due to the necessary interaction of several authorities and relatively short compared to immigration authorities in other countries. Just think of Canada, which is a country of immigration: The procedure may take up to eight months. We all want the legal criteria to be carefully examined, because the red-and-white red card is the title for a long-term migration, combined with the right to family immigration. A reduction in this eight-week decision-making period would no longer allow all conditions to be reviewed accordingly. That is why we have rejected the NEOS proposal, as you have said.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15609	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say in advance that we will probably not be able to carry out the extensive vote on the Special Pension Restriction Act before the urgent question is dealt with, but it is still working on it. There are over 50 pages that need to be worked through. Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15633	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We find the red and white red card a very good system, because it allows skilled workers and disabled workers to come to Austria regardless of a quota arrangement. We also welcome the fact that the assessment is carried out within the framework of a point system and that it is precisely examined what qualifications and how much professional experience individual people have and that it is also looked at in terms of the form of training, because we do not want the red and white red card to be a special door to abuse. We don't want people coming in on this basis who might be presenting documents that aren't right. I think the system needs time. If the AMS has four weeks and a total of eight weeks, it is reasonable. Within these eight weeks you can look closely: Is this person sufficiently qualified? Do we need them on the labour market? So I think, in total, this has been very well done. [[Abg. Kickl: Read the application carefully!]] As far as minimum security is concerned under the country of origin principle, I would like to say: In the last Committee, we discussed this, and the Minister said that many Austrians also have minimum guarantees in other EU countries. If one would calculate this by the level of the country of origin, it could, in total, become more expensive even for the Austrians. In this regard, we have put a question to the Minister, in which we have asked all this. We are waiting for how the answer looks, and then our decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15671	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15692	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is, in fact, a convoy of various applications that we are discussing in one. These are applications for work permits, residence permits, social benefits, various resolution agencies and their competences. First of all, the Red and White Red Card, which was introduced at the time to allow foreign skilled workers access to the domestic labour market, but in order, in a manageable time frame and also reasonable, what the resolution with regard to both structural and duration: Yes, this red-and-white red card has proved itself to be good thanks to God in recent years, as has the Foreign Employment Act and the Branch and Residence Act. These measures would now be avoided with this request, I think, the wrong signal. Why? We know that we have a tense situation in the labour market, triggered by the economic and financial crisis of recent years. We know that we are on the road well in Austria as far as this data is concerned, but we still have a very high unemployment rate, and this is, of course, worrying us. We also know that we are on the right path, the number is declining, but it is developing very, very slowly. It is a delicate plant that grows here, and of course this is also exposed to many environmental influences. We must be very careful to ensure that this growth can continue. And in this tense situation it is, I think, not easy to change the situation or possibly even to tighten it up, but what would happen if we were to avoid this red and white red card now. On further requests, as regards the country of origin principle, the abolition of the Bartenstein decree with the employment ban for asylum seekers or also private employment agents in unemployment care: First of all, the country of origin principle: Benefits can only be used by those people who also work here in our country or have a legal residence permit. I think this is a very important basis, and it should also give people the right to claim these benefits if they make their social security contributions here and make their contribution to work. They are social benefits, they are not donated and they are not distributed with the casting can, but they are acquired by stay and by work. To the Bartenstein decree itself: Yes, there should be a legal right to employment only if it is clarified whether a person can really stay here in Austria for humanitarian or political reasons, and not at a time when the identity has not even been verified. Someone comes into our country, says he's the one and the one, and then he already has a job claim according to these principles. This is not our view, but first the review takes place, that must be the legitimacy that he can stay here and work here, and then he can use this labour law as well. Finally, private employment in unemployment care. For information: This possibility is already available, it is also used, also in cooperation with the AMS, but we also want to deal with the financial base and the funding possibilities through the AMS in the future. That was my summary of all these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15740	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15762	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Höfinger, I am a little confused now. Mr Rädler, during the debate on the red-and-white card, has actually already clearly signalled approval from your side and has said that there is a need for change and, as a rule, it is the SPÖ that is blocking it. That is why, I believe, it is also important that we hold this debate over and over again, because I have the feeling that you are simply deaf on this ear. You all know the problems with the red-and-white red card. We all know that it was otherwise thought that much more red and white red cards should be issued, but that is not the case that we are far from what was originally planned. The problems are so obvious, and I do not understand how to close before. We held this discussion here during the first reading, it was held in the committee, we had the subject in a short debate to reply to a question. They know that the salary threshold that has been determined can never and never be reached – on the one hand, by a Bachelor's graduate, who is in principle not allowed under this law anyway, and on the other hand by a graduate of a diploma course – and that even the master's graduates are just about above it. It is absurd that Bachelor graduates are not at all entitled to receive a red and white red card. I have sometime – I don't know whether here in plenary or in between – heard from a colleague from SPÖ that he said, well, the labour market doesn't need them, they don't need the Bachelor graduates. So I already think that companies should be able to decide for themselves whether a Bachelor's graduate with a corresponding training might also get a red-and-white red card or a job. [[Abg. Darabos: Who did you hear that from?]] – I can't remember again, Mr. colleague, I'm sorry. This is not the essential point either, because you know the problems anyway. The problems are that we have carried out a Bologna reform and you do not recognise an academic title, which after the Bologna reform is clearly an academic title in this context. This debate is similar to the one that was originally held in the public service and where you needed more time to recognize this title. That's what happened now, that's good. However, it is not to be seen that there is simply no equivalence in this context. I say that one academic title is a little better than the other. It is so from the value, because one requires a longer study than the other, but whether the graduates on the labour market can get a job, that should, as I think, be left to the entrepreneurs. Mrs Korun has already mentioned this: We make people out here in Austria and send them home after that. This is completely absurd, not comprehensible, and what is much worse, it is absolutely absurd in the economic sense of the people, which is not understandable. We finance people's studies here and then don't even give them the opportunity to pay back something about taxes. We'll send them home and tell them to just go. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In addition, the whole thing is extremely problematic, we know the whole discussion about the brain drain. Our own highly qualified people wander away, and that is increasingly, you also need to discuss it, that is not a question at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] But if they leave, then you could seriously consider whether we should perhaps not be able to have high-qualified people come to us from abroad, that is what they want. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They don't want to come here at all!]] – If you look at the statistics, you will see how many of those who have studied here want to stay here and how many we send home, that is another thing. Now on another point, on the employment ban for asylum seekers: I really don't understand. I'm sorry. The requirement was that an asylum seekers, if he is here for six months, can also work accordingly. This is necessary for human beings. An asylum seeker wants to earn his own living, to feed his family. It is about people having a regulated daily routine that they don't look all day in the air, that they can also live out their qualifications they have and don't forget many things again. In this context, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, have rejected it in the Committee. I don't understand, because you're the party that's always the party of work. They also say that everyone has the right to work, that is a human right. But because of their legal status – and de facto because of their origin, because they are not Austrian citizens; but in the final effect due to their legal status – you do not allow people to conduct work without discrimination. The only way to do this is – we have already heard – to follow the prostitution and to do seasonal work. This is precisely with a party that always says that it is the party of work, everyone has the right to work, and so on and so on, absolutely impossible to understand. But, and this has come from you in the committee, this is all about other problems. You want a directive that is necessary only after nine months, I have been told so that I do not sit in the committee and that a labour market audit is carried out in this regard. Accordingly, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's exactly why you said you couldn't agree. These are exactly the demands you have made in the Committee. That is why you could easily agree with this today. Finally, quite briefly, because my speaking time is already de facto over, to the request of Mr Kickl, who unfortunately is not here now – ah, back there he is and telephoned: The application may be made You're not really serious, are you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That's absurd! Apart from the fact that it does not work legally de facto that people pay less minimum security here, the idea is not understandable. If people are here in Austria and here in Austria need minimum security, then this is based on a sentence that is necessary here in order to be able to dispute his livelihood. If you want to go down to the minimum standard necessary in Bulgaria or Romania, how are they going to live here? It is completely absurd that you say here that the country of origin principle applies. It doesn't make any sense legally, and it doesn't make any sense like that. [[Abg. Kickl: That's not absurd at all!]] Unfortunately, Mr Kickl, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15865	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15938	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e15960	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting right now where my previous speaker has stopped, namely the country of origin principle, as far as minimum security is concerned. Mr President, it is not absurd to call for people who come to us to receive benefits in accordance with the country of origin principle. I'd like to clear this up: The minimum guarantee is not an insurance benefit, which is something we voluntarily pay. That means we can pay or not. On the question of the risk of poverty. – We always pretend to be God-given it all. The people who come to us are already poor, they do not come to us and impoverish with us. That means that this is clearly immigration into the social system. Obviously you want this, and obviously the Federal Government also wants it. We don't want that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have today submitted a latte of applications – which can be found good or bad – which we are now negotiating with, in the end, with a view to bringing back people with higher qualifications. That's what I'm asking myself: Then why do we always want immigration into the social system? That's how we lure people. And I'm telling you quite honestly, too: People who come to us should come here because they want to create a better life, but not because they are in the hammock, but by working. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the immigration we want. But what we don't want is exactly these people. And I don't quite understand why you think this is absurd. There are two ways: Either the country of origin pays it or we pay according to the standard of the country of origin. This too is a possibility if the administrative burden is too high. I already know the argument of the Federal Minister: There are so many Austrians who have the minimum security abroad. Yes, then they should also be paid according to the Austrian system. Of course! Why, then, are the Austrians always the ones – by the way, the crowds that probably have a minimum guarantee somewhere – who are supposed to pay for it? Why don't we finally make a policy for the Austrians? If you always say that's not possible by law, then I have to resist it, that's not a claim. As a politician, I have the right to stand here to change something, and not always to say that everything is not possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it is the task and duty of policy to change the legal framework in such a way that it is right. This is the task of politics, and not, a system that is wrong, now also incement. This is not the task of politics! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the other requests which have been sufficiently described here by various colleagues. For example, this is the red and white red card – an application from the NEOS. The red and white red card is not a great success. But now I'm telling you one thing: Obviously, there are not so many highly qualified people who want to enter Austria. Of course, this is also because Austria is a high tax country, that it is probably not particularly attractive for highly qualified people to come to Austria. So, of course, I'm right with my previous speaker: It is a drama that even our own best-trained people leave the country and this federal government does not do anything about it, nor does it do anything about it, or for us to keep the people here in the country. I am thinking, for example, of the threatening shortage of doctors. We're not doing anything about it at all. We'll make them out here and let them go abroad. At the same time, I tell you that it is also the wrong way that the red-and-white red card is still being upgraded here somehow. We live in a common Europe, we have a free labour market, where hundreds of millions of people can move, where they want to work. I do not think that it is necessary for us to bring in additional workers from outside the European Union who do not yet want to do so. I think that's the wrong way. The request made by Mr Korun is just as interesting. She would like to remove, as it were, the ban on the work of asylum seekers. Mrs Colleague, you may have missed it. This Minister of Labour has long since avoided it. Two years ago, he partially opened the labour market for young asylum seekers. And I know exactly, you only want to mean one thing, namely that if there is the negative message, that is, the deportation notice, you can make yourself here again, especially you, from the Greens, with some whiting stories and say, they are so well integrated and they have been working on the Austrian labour market for so long, and now we can no longer push them off if there are no grounds for asylum, even if they have disappeared here. That is why we do not at all like opening up the labour market to asylum seekers. We want quick, fair procedures. And anyone who can stay here has the right to work anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All the others are expected to leave the country as soon as possible. In this sense, Mr. Federal Minister – allow me to make a comment – I think it is a shame that you are now paying an advisory centre from your ministry with taxpayers in the ÖGB, which is almost legal advice for black workers. That is precisely the wrong way. Instead of fighting undeclared work, instead of making these people clear, they are guilty of a crime here, they have no work permit, open up a consulting center with taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhauser]] And that, Mr Federal Minister, is also something we will have to talk about.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16069	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16090	Mr President. Minister! A NEOS application aims to facilitate the conditions for obtaining a red and white red card in order to enable permanent access to the labour market for Bachelor graduates and other key workers from third countries with less paid employment. What does the proposal look like? Proposal 1 from the NEOS: The statutory minimum wage is to be reduced for under 30-year-old key forces from €2 265 to €2 038.50, for more than 30-year-old key forces from €2 718 to €2 265 and for graduates from currently €2 038.50 to €1 812. Ladies and gentlemen, the minimum wage laid down by law ensures that graduates, professionals and key workers who are admitted to the Red and White Red Card are employed on proper pay and working conditions and thus wage dumping in the qualified employment area is avoided by means of labour migration. Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, you seem to want this wage dumping, otherwise you would not have made this proposal. Proposal 2 by NEOS: Bachelor graduates should also be able to receive a red and white red card. In view of the low demand for the economy, rising unemployment among Bachelor graduates themselves and the already existing legal employment opportunities of Bachelor graduates from third countries, it is not acceptable that Bachelor graduates and thus also their family members will be able to access the labour market via a red-and-white red card. Proposal 3 by the NEOS: For highly qualified persons, a three-year period should be sufficient instead of a four-year minimum study duration. In addition, they will also receive points for a Bachelor's degree in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS! The reduction of quality requirements for highly qualified persons to a minimum duration of three years would result in Bachelor's graduates receiving a red-and-white red card as highly qualified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Read your requests! You haven't understood him yet! The requirement for a four-year duration of study is therefore justified and a necessary demarcation to the experts and key staff for which a minimum three-year duration is already sufficient. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal aims to reduce wages by changing the law, thereby reducing the cost of labour by the end of the year. to get rich. We certainly do not agree to this. That is why we reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16158	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16179	Mr President. Minister! I'm shaken. From red and black, I was used to maintaining their fines in the protected area. But that there is green playing and luxury pensions of 12 000 € extended into all eternity, which of course already leaves room for speculations. [[Calls for Greens]] But since I don't have an order call yet, I don't want to deepen that either. There are still a number that have been mentioned in the Committee but have not yet been mentioned on this subject. We refer here to estimated costs of € 600 million per year for the taxpayer. €600 million was mentioned in the Committee. In Austria we have exploding public debt, we have a tax rate that no one can bear anymore, we have a savings budget, but we obviously have enough money for all possible people – people who buy luxury pensions or even immigrants. And now on a subject that is very, very important, and that is the country of origin principle, it is exemplified in terms of family aid. I have a question answer here, where it was exactly listed by country of origin. Austria spends €205 million per year on children of people who work in Austria, but are citizens of another country. 205 million € per year, trend clearly strongly rising. Obviously we have for all possible people outside Austria's money, but none for the Austrian families. I can read you a few numbers: 65 million go to Hungary, 48 million to Slovakia, 32 million to Poland. This is money that we can save ourselves and reasonably lead the Austrian families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the argument that always comes, also in the Committee: We benefit almost as an Austrian also, also the Swiss and so on, who come to us. . I have looked at the fact that there is not a single Swiss in Austria, which relates to family aid. So we don't have the problem. Second issue: It always means, okay, that is not feasible in the European area. – The current case of an Austrian who has applied for family aid in England. This was rejected by the English authorities with the argument that they see this as: Where the children live is also the food point. – So in England, it’s not going to happen in Austria. We are very much calling for the introduction of the principle of origin in the case of social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16234	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16256	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Worm, I know you've only been in the house for six months. [[Calls:Seven]] Seven! If you had prepared yourself a little deeper, you would have found, for example, a case in which Austrian Supreme Courts told someone in Turkey, the family allowance will no longer be exported. Do you know when that is? - From 2008. Find out a little bit, look a little before you take out the populism cult. - That's one point. Point two: Family aid is exported across Europe, because it is part of Europe, but it is controlled. That is the very crucial point. Yes, 600 000 Austrians live somewhere in Europe and receive the family allowance there. Just say, We do not want Europe anymore and we want to get out, because everything you do here ends with this logic. Country of origin principle for social benefits. The country of origin principle, in fact, comes from the movement of goods, has nothing to do with social benefits at all. Do you know what the country of origin principle would mean when you think about what you want here? – That I have to accept Romanian wage levels in this country. That is the logic. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Why?]] – If you take the country of origin seriously, then you have to go through it everywhere, otherwise we are a little discriminatory. Populism overtakes you. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's your problem! That's the difficulty you have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if you think in the Red and White Red Card, it makes everyone a bow around us, then I have to stop it, no one makes a bow around us, we only have a very massive common internal migration in Europe. And this massive common internal migration means that the Austrian labour market is very likely to take up people from within Europe and, as a result, the Red and White Red Card makes much fewer applications. - Point one. Point two: This also applies the other way round, because many Austrians also make use of it and carry out their activities in Europe, at an hour of about 600 000. This is a coming and going, and this coming and going is taking place. And if, for example, you criticize me and claim that I support black work, then I must say, honourable Member, it would have been good if you had inquired. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It's about undocumented work. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Blackworks!]] And why is it about undocumented work? – Because there are people who work black there because there is an Austrian client. Do you know who's interested in me? – I am interested in the Austrian client. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: So everything the black workers are allowed to do!]] I want to fight it, then the blackwork problem is automatically solved. And that's the subject. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] What you want to do is despise people, push people out, put people at borders. And you don't care that there are clients who say: Please, do it black! – You don't mind! That's why: It is simply about taking out undocumented work and doing undocumented work. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What do you need?]] That's why we pay this advisory center because it's still so that there are people in this country who say to other people: [[Congratulation with SPÖ and Greens]] Work black, please! Unfortunately, we have the problem that every control of the financial police every second, every third control is a hit. That's sad, that's bad, and that's done. This advice centre is intended to help the people who are exploited in Austria, that they simply trust to say: Please, I've been exploited. And that's why we're making this consultation.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16400	Mrs Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16421	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Minister, you have now provided a very depressing proof of how much you can lie about these central problems in the bag. They are speaking here of help for people who are unfortunately black and say that only in this way can we solve the problem and stop this practice. As a general rule, your proposals for solutions are in such a way that they do not improve the problem but rather worsen it. You've proved that again. If someone has the opportunity to work black, then get a legal claim to improve it – how to get You're doing the blackwork? On the contrary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is similar with the right to asylum, to which I would like to lose a short word. We have put forward proposals here, which include removing the ban on employment for asylum seekers, Mr Scherak. Conversely, it should be. Do you know the unemployment rate? They want to separate the labour market for asylum seekers – not asylum seekers – and I would like to say something about that – to open up to asylum seekers without restrictions. You always bring humane arguments, you claim humanity for yourself – talk to us You usually leave them – but are you not aware that you are actually using a highly inhuman system? That's a word: The head of Traiskirchen, Franz Schabhüttl, has recently said that the international crises are not so much the trigger of these movements. Who comes, rather, determine the tractors. Does that tell you something? – If you are still strengthening the incentives – and the incentives determine these movements, otherwise it would not be the case that in the Czech Republic 70 asylum seekers come to a million inhabitants and in Austria to a million residents 1 715 asylum seekers – if you still increase the incentives, then you will achieve several things: on the one hand, the labour market, which is already completely overshadowed, is still destabilising. This is bad for the Austrians in their own country and this is bad for those who have come and have been seeking legal work here. Secondly, however, you use the tractor structures, because something better can't happen: I'll take you there, and there you go. And thirdly, you are raising hopes in those countries from which these people are coming, who understandably want to improve it. That's not ten million, it's not a hundred million, but it's hundreds of millions who would come if they could. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mlinar.]] Please be realistic! Well meant is very often the opposite of good. And precisely in these questions, you do not produce justice, not humanity, but suffering!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16493	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16515	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to address once again the issue of minimum security and the country of origin principle. If you think about it, as the Minister has said, if you were to bring everything back to the country of origin principle, then you would have to – yes, but the social benefits, that is not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] For example, in the case of food, or anything else, where it comes from, you can't say that this only applies to the rear haxl of the pig and to the front. This means that if we refer the country of origin principle to people, this also applies to remuneration here, and also to social benefits. Now you think differently! Think of it from the discussion of the social scruples, as you always imply it, away! There are people who come to us from Sweden, for example. They would then get more social benefits here than they get an Austrian. Is that fair? - They live here in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, there is a federal different!]] – But they live on our conditions, in our financial environment here. They live on our conditions. The Swedish pays as much if he is shopping or goes to the outdoor swimming pool with his children, as someone else is paying who lives in Austria. This meant when you refer it back to the people from the eastern block who come to us: They pay this either little or nothing if it goes according to the country of origin principle. If he doesn't have anything in his country of origin, he won't get anything here either. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] What does that mean? - Someone's here. There's nothing going on. They will not believe that the social security that we have in this country, which is related to having a functioning social state, that people do not have to steal per se, in order to somehow fight their livelihood, is bad. That is to say, it is likely that the crime rate will be raised, the security factor and what many farms are bringing to Austria would simply fall away. - That's a story. The second story concerns undocumented work: There was once an attempt, just before any choice, it was – I don't know anymore, before which – when suddenly the “Kronen Zeitung” brought that the ÖGB, NGOs and the workers' chamber would now more or less make legal advice for the black workers, so that Austrians would get out badly. What is the truth? . We know that there is a large number of so-called undocumented workers in Austria, i.e. people who are here without papers and rights. And this is not the one who takes away a job, it happens all too often in the diplomatic service, with ambassadors in the villas it is the household staff. Many of them! This, of course, also concerns people on construction sites. The first case to be heard in Austria involved a construction worker. That was someone who worked without papers on a construction site, who was then brave enough – no, no asylum seekers – to go and say: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: asylum seekers!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oh yes!]] Look, I work here and I don't get the money. What are we doing? He was with the clubs, and then the question was: What are we doing? Again: Every black worker, any unregistered undocumented who works here, also has an Austrian employer. You always have to think about that. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Everything is recorded on video!]] If we tolerate this, then we drive down the wage level clearly; we would continue to drive it down if we went through the country of origin principle as you do. This advice service for undocumented workers ensures that Austrians and legal residents who are on the labour market receive a decent wage and do not fall out of the system. Undocumented slaves – let's say what it is – are basically without rights in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16615	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no mention of this. I would like to announce the following: We will now vote on the agenda items of the debate that we have now held, which is to say, TOP 6 to 11. The vote will then be taken on the previous item on the agenda. At the moment, the Croquis is also being distributed. That is why I need appropriate attention. It will be a... – and time too. [[Abg. Kickl: But time too! It's just being distributed!]] Yeah, that's right. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's final word is not wanted. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 152 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 153 of the supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him for a sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 154 of the supplements. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Loacker, colleagues on access to the labour market for asylum seekers. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 155 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 156 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 157 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[14:51:12]] Vote on agenda item 5
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16704	This means that we are moving to the vote on the draft law in 151 of the supplements. There are the following additional or amendments: two amendments tabled by the honourable Member. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Schwentner, colleagues, as well as a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Oberhauser, Mr Wöginger, Mr Colleagues. Since the present draft law, as well as the above-mentioned supplementary or amendment proposals, concerns or amends a Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment which refers to the removal of the word “not” in the last sentence of the kind. 1 Z 3 § 10 para. 3 refers. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 1 Z 3 § 10 para. 3 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The request is not approved. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment to the first sentence of § 10 para. 3 in Art. 1 C 3 refers. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is not the majority and does not agree with it. Finally, Mr Oberhauser, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 3 § 10 para. 3 introduced. Whoever gives the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 4a and 4b in Art. 1 § 10. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is not the majority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 1 Z 3 § 10 para. 5 to be introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 3 § 10 para. 5 to be introduced. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This finds the majority and is therefore accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request concerning the insertion of the Z 3a in Art. 1 introduced. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning § 11 para. 22 in Art. 1 Z 4. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have an amendment concerning § 11 para. 22 in Art. 1 Z 4. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Dr. Oberhauser, Wöginger, Members of Parliament have an amendment concerning § 11 para. 22 in Art. 1 Z 4. Whoever gives the consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I expressly place the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 2 introduced. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 3 introduced. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 3 introduced. Whoever gives the consent, I ask for a sign. – In turn, that is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 4 to be introduced. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 4 to be introduced. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 5 to be introduced. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 5 to be introduced. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 81 § 1 para. 2 in Art. 6 to be inserted. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 81 § 1 para. 2 in Art. 6 to be inserted. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. The Members of Parliament, Dr Oberhauser, Wöginger, Members of Parliament, have an additional request concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 8a to 8c of Art. 81 § 1 in Art. 6 to be inserted. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 81 § 2 in Art. 6 to be inserted. Whoever stands up for it, ask for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 81 § 2 in Art. 6 to be inserted. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – In turn, that is the minority and thus rejected. It is always almost twice in a row, just something different, and I therefore have to vote twice. This is only for the purpose of reconnaissance. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 8 to be inserted. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask for signs. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 9 ingested. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 9 ingested. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for this, I'm looking for a sign – that's the majority, also the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 10. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 10. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 11. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 11. Who is for it, please ask for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. ==References== Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. ==References== Who is for it, please ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it, please, a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 13). Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 13). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 14 to be introduced. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 14 to be introduced. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 15. Whoever speaks for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 15. Who is for it, please ask for a sign. – This is the minority and is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. ==References== Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. ==References== Whoever stands up for it, ask for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, including the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. ==References== I also see the minority here, and that does not mean that this request has been accepted. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning the type. ==References== Who's for it, please, a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 20. Who is for it, please ask for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning the type. 20. Who is for it, please ask for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 21 of these. I ask for a sign upon consent. – This is the minority and rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 21 of these. Here, too, I ask for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 22 of these. Whoever stands up for it, ask for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 22 of these. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 23 of these. Who's for it, please, a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 23 of these. In case of consent, please give a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 24. Who's for it, please, a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 24. Who's for it, please, a sign. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, please give me a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 25. If you agree, please give me a sign. – That is the minority, is rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 25. Who's for it, please, a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, please give me a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. We did it soon, so you can breathe a little. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. 26. Who's for it, please, a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 26. Who's for it, please, a sign. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands up for it, please give me a sign. – This is the constitutional majority. Deputies Mag. Mr Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject. ==References== Whoever gives him the consent, ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. ==References== Whoever gives him the consent, ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the constitutional majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the complete abolition of luxury pensions and pension privileges at all levels of the Republic of Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. - That's not the majority. This request is not approved. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm sorry!]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on ‘A harmonised pension system for all employees – private, public or functional – in Austria’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. – This is the minority, the request is not accepted. We don't get to 12. On the item on the agenda, I am now interrupting the negotiations so that the required debate of a urgent question can take place. [[15:15:35]] Mr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on the "tax reduction for our performance providers instead of class struggle" (1712/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16782	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 1712/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e16982	I declare Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur as the first questioner to state the reasons for the request, which according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not take more than 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17003	Madam President. Dear representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! Dear Sparer! If you listen to some politicians from this high house, you know: Finally, there is a solution to all the problems in our country: the millionaire tax! The others are supposed to pay, quite clear. Many are excited because the greedy millionaires are finally asked to cash out, and for safety reasons everyone who has more than you have. Who's a millionaire, anyway? Whoever has a total assets of € 1 million is the technical answer. So let's look, and it's over with social romance. There is someone who has either a flat or a house, a car, possibly a life insurance, maybe a pension, possibly a few shares and maybe a bit of jewelry. In any case, this is obviously millionaire, and, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is full of millionaires, at least now before the government may decide on a so-called millionaire tax, because it is being disrupted at many corners and ends at the money bag of the Austrians, in Austria in particular by the left half of the empire and, of course, at European level. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The ECB operates in historical dimensions. The historically low interest rate was once again reduced to 0.15 percent. And bank balances at the ECB are charged with a negative tax, for the first time in history! All this is supposed to boost the economy. But all of this does not do anything if confidence in the country and confidence in the markets are not there, because the market lives primarily from trust. Even the many injections of money from the ECB to the extent of a trillion have not contributed to economic growth, but have actually stimulated the purchase of government bonds. That means quite simply: Printing of money and buying of junk papers. That's another one of the many taboos that shouldn't have happened. But that's how it works: Debts, so print money. The so-called Asset Backed Securities are the next big threat. This is the securitisation market. These are interest-rate securities for open credit claims, which are beautifully nested and then sold in the box. It all sounds very complicated. Let me just summarize this: These are exactly these opaque, highly toxic papers that have triggered the big crash in the US. And these toxic papers are still being pushed back and forth, from now on, especially in Europe. Now the taxpayers and the savers actually have to be very careful. The savers – who is that? – These are all those people who, for example, provide for the pension, because they may be justified in fearing that they will not get a proper pension anymore, people who are planning investments, or perhaps just people who put themselves on the side of the famous emergency crowd. These are simply pushed into the losing position. Not only that the banking secret has de facto already been abolished, because international data and information exchange has lost all confidentiality, the Austrian savers have lost 16 billion € over silent inflation since 2008. 16 billion € lost since 2008! The fact that a profit tax is also levied on this non-profit is actually a special pang. In Austria, the tax is taxed not only on profits, but also on losses. A completely new concept to stop budget holes in the final effect. There would have been an uproar 20 years ago, but today we are somehow stunned, because there is this flood of information in which inflation is presented as something healthy, as something that every economy needs to be healthy. For the highly indebted state, this may already be true, because it is very pleasant if, like magic, the debt is inflationed away and shrunk. But as always, someone has to pay the bill, and these are the young people, these are the savers, these are the taxpayers. The insolence to the savers is driven to the top if politicians still claim that inflation is so low anyway. Dear Sparer! We have negative real interest rates. Look at your savings book at regular intervals, and you'll see how the amounts look like, you'll see your savings melt down! That is, the savers have been suffering from a asset tax for a long time. And even without studying mathematics or even banking, it is possible to calculate relatively easily and quickly that one remains a loss business of just under 1 or minus 2 percent of the savings due to inflation of just under 2 per cent – officially, probably 4 or 5 per cent – which is probably expected to be added to the milky interest, minus Kest, at the end, a loss business of probably minus 1 or minus 2 per cent of the savings, and that over many years. That's how I've been going to 16 billion losses since 2008. That can't be! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The most unfair thing for the savers is that it does not hit the super-rich, which tends to be less inclined to listen to their assets on savings books. My grandparents had savings books. My grandma and my grandpa did not invest in any complicated financial instruments and did not act as a small real estate shark on the real estate market either. No, they put some money on a savings book. And I think that's how most Austrians do, so most people do. – And their savings will be melted down. Just as shamefully as the claim of some politicians that inflation is so pretty low here, while the savers are losing their money, the claim is that Austria is so cheaply refinanced, because our credit quality is so good because of the great policy. In fact, we know that the ECB is printing money, and that is why interest rates are so low – and not because of the great policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But the temptation for the rulers of this world to simply print money is, of course, very great, because one can supposedly solve the debt problems. I see this boom and bust cycle in the governments. This usually takes four to five years, i.e. more or less of choice. The greater the promises made by governments – and there are good promises in Austria too – the greater the pressure to get more money, and the more money is printed. And the cheaper the money is to have, the more printed it is, the more money there is, the more pressure to handle this inflationed money, the more you can print anyway. So those who are poor will be favored, and those who are saved will be punished. The real problem in Austria is that citizens are constantly losing purchasing power. And you know that best, dear taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In addition to the savers, the working people are extorted like lemons. There is nothing left of real wage increases. The cold progression does the rest. And now the so-called millionaires are to come along. This will be a hidden attack on the middle class, and this is definitely to be prevented! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Europe as a whole, but also Austria lacks economic growth. We need this urgently in order to create jobs and secure prosperity. But as long as we have a tax system that punishes performance and nourishes mistrust, nothing will change. The tax rate and taxation of work in Austria are at the top of the world. Now, if the input tax rate is slightly reduced, but not permanently the cold progression, that is, the creeping expropriation of the working people, then there is only a very short-term increase in purchasing power at a homeopathic dose. This is simply a political voter-mobilization action, because the political system is waving properly. The companies lack the confidence to invest in our country, and the people lack the confidence to buy more and increase their consumption. Instead of doing everything we can to restore this trust slowly, it seems that policy is doing everything to further weaken confidence. In particular, I believe that the SPÖ's tax proposals make a very important contribution here, because the SPÖ proposals aim to complement the already rather opaque tax system with totally opaque tax rules. Every potential millionaire is to explain in the future, according to the SPÖ itself, what values it has. The old Persian carpet, is now worth 100 €, 1,000 €, 10,000 €? And what about the pictures? Is the artist already dead, or is he still alive? In any case, the expensive expert dispute is preprogrammed. Citizens are being criminalised. The only ones who can enjoy this SPÖ tax proposal are the assessors. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] All of this reminds us of the asset tax that was already in place in Austria and the praiseworthyly abolished under a very clever SPÖ man in 1993 because he correctly realized that the asset tax has no meaning and is rinsing too little money in the cash registers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The administration alone soon took so much! No entrepreneur only calculates the revenue. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account the related costs and expenditure and to calculate the costs. But many politicians come from the protected area, and it doesn't play such a big role in cost calculation, whether it goes under the line then. If it doesn't go out, the taxes will simply be increased. So how much money can be expected from this millionaire tax now? This, in turn, depends entirely on who you are asking. Ask the SPÖ, then it's 1.5 billion. Ask the ÖVP, then it says 110 million because the assets of businesses are not to be taxed. So here there is not only an ideological problem, but also a mathematical problem. The amounts of red and black are about 1.4 billion apart. How serious do you think, dear taxpayers? – In my opinion, a rather strange approach to the financial planning of our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Bernhard Felder said quite clearly: ‘The asset tax, if it is not intended to fully co-finance the economy, can never counter the reduction in the wage tax.’ But that even stronger argument is history. Most countries have no wealth tax, and some countries that had one have abolished it again because they have noticed that it is deeply site harmful: Ireland: abolished, Austria: abolished, Italy: abolished, Denmark: abolished, Netherlands: abolished, Finland: abolished, Iceland: abolished, Sweden: abolished, Spain: abolished. [[Abg. Rossmann: France: introduced!]] Mrs. State Secretary! It might be interesting to look at it and not just to mention France. France is a beautiful country with charismatic people, but as an economic model I would certainly not choose France. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] France is the new sick man of Europe. What is this to be an economic model for us? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But even there, even in France, one has already failed. Hollande has recognized that he has failed with his millionaire tax and has therefore only driven capital out of the country. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true! That's all wrong!]] The experiences from history show that socialism and the too strong redistribution do not work. Where there are no material incentives to perform, no one is provided! It's easy! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The eastern block has also shown this quite clearly. If the SPÖ calls its model the Swiss model, it is pure chuzpe. Switzerland has very low taxes and taxes. The tax rate is only 35 percent – with us 45 percent or higher. In other words: In Austria, the people of 1. Years until 31. July only for the state! Dear taxpayers! You only work for the state for half the year – and only then in your own pocket! [[Abg. Eßl: What is the social ratio?]] For example, Austria will not be able to hold up for long in the competition of economies. What is still missing for the final out of our economic location is property taxes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This means that once again the money is taxed correctly, a second time. This is a safe recipe for selling investors from Austria. The fact that we do not have an asset tax is our last asset advantage in terms of taxes. If it disappears now, there is no longer any motive to have money in Austria. Apart from that, it won't hit the super rich anyway. Neither Google nor Amazon nor those rulers who have parked their money in tax-saving foundations will be caught, even though some of the magazines now say he would like to pay more. Yeah, let's think of the foundations! What is going on in this letter from Mr Finanzminister, I have to say, I know that many wealthy people donate a lot anyway. I know the philanthropy of course also from North America, there it is going and going. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, this is because the tax burden is much lower there, and on the other hand, because there is a much more beautiful culture of giving and sponsoring there, of course, because donations are completely tax deductible. That should also be the case in Austria. Donations should be tax deductible not only by up to 10 percent of the operating result, but entirely. You will see when you lower the tax burden, how generous the servers will then be. But as long as we are subject to the dictatorship of this envy society, capital will flee. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At present, it is simply not interesting enough to donate tax for companies in our country. Private people donate a lot in Austria, I really like that, but companies in international comparison rather less, with some exceptions, including Frank Stronach. You could become active here, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] So again to the target group: The super-rich are not caught, but the middle class and in the last consequence the so-called small people. All those who now call the very loudest after the millionaire tax will really hit it hardest. [[Abg. Rossmann: Myth!]] As soon as the basic tax is increased, the rents will quickly be passed on to the tenants, because the higher costs are of course immediately passed on to the tenants. At the moment, we have a new mass tax which, under the title of social justice, is subject to the label of the millionaire tax. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Those who now call the loudest after the millionaire tax will be amazed at higher rental prices. And if the tenants can no longer afford the new apartment or the new rental costs and the landlord then no longer finds a tenant, you know what happens then? - Then he'll sell. And who can afford this in Austria? I estimate that then rich foreigners will come and buy everything, whether they are oligarchs or hedge funds or someone else. But in Austria this will hardly be possible for anyone, especially since the Austrian National Bank is already talking about overvaluing real estate prices, especially in Vienna. So I ask you, dear government representatives: Do you want to trigger a real estate crisis with a higher taxation of the assets and the reason? – That must not be! People must be able to afford to live, to live, to be able to live from their salary, from their wages. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And to the registers: Every smaller entrepreneur is criminalised. It is assumed that the taxes and charges are not correctly paid. Therefore, there should be an obligation to register. Dear representatives of SPÖ! The small entrepreneurs and the host are not your enemies! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Big.]] These are not the big rich millionaires that one now has to drive away their assets, but these are hardworking people who are often working day and night in the family business. And that the self-advertisements should now be sanctioned by up to 30 percent on the tax debt, which finally criminalises any entrepreneur who has once charged. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is a bagatelization of tax evasion, what you say!]] Now we also know why 550 new taxpayers will be recruited, which will then be released to entrepreneurs. This is the wrong approach, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If this asset tax comes, then this government has shot its last powder, then there is only the official expropriation. All those who have been able to save a little despite the high tax rates are punished. Instead of rethinking about new taxes, after you only in March, contrary to your constituencies, but this is another subject that has raised taxes again, you should finally deal courageously with the most important issues and most urgent reforms in this country. First: There are totally unexplained, massive risks at the Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank, even at the ÖVAG, and it must be the supreme priority to clarify this. Explain also why documents appear that now show that the Hypo-Alpe-Adria-Bank should not have been made necessary at all! That's a scandal! Let the investigative committee finally work! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Bravorufe at the FPÖ.]] And tell us: Who were the greatest creditors at the time of the emergency? Who was protected? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Secondly, you should also look at the promotion system, this giant jungle. There is a huge potential for savings. There are structural threats: We are managed at EU, federal, national level. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And third, the pension system. It's not going out in the back and in the front. This tax discussion is a distraction maneuver. That's the point. The hat burns with the banks. The pension system is no longer eligible for funding, and some government politicians want to distract from it with a really bad idea that will be applied extremely cleverly as a income tax reduction for the small people. In reality
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17245	Madam President, you have already exceeded your speaking time, so I must withdraw the floor. I gave you the chance to say a final word, but now it's not possible. Thank you. [[As a surprise to the Stronach team for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Reciprocating.]] In reply to the question, Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke, whose speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17281	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, also on the Government Bank! Member of the European Parliament and of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health Reborn, for me, one thing is quite clear: The tax and tax burden in Austria is too high. I don't need a survey and I don't need a vote. She's too high! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Bravorufe at the FPÖ.]] The conclusion is also clear: The load must be reduced. Of course, it is a fact that Austria, when compared with the European neighbours, is a high tax country. And if we compare this with the neighbors more in detail, we know: Yes, we are one of the countries with the highest tax and tax rate. That is why it is not about the question of tax relief, but about the question of how. A few introductory remarks on your questions. If we are aware that about 30 percent of workers with the highest incomes are 80 percent of the total wage tax. We see, on the other hand, that more than a third of the income earners do not pay income taxes at all. From these points of view, of course, we also need to focus on: It needs solidarity in both directions. There must be solidarity with those who do not have a large income, but there must also be solidarity with those who pay a lot of income tax. Ladies and gentlemen, this is necessary, that is always to be seen in both directions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm saying one more thing: When we talk about service providers, we also have to call them service providers who do not only special things in terms of income, the families are also special service providers, and they too are relieved, I am firmly convinced. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] [[Bravorufe at the FPÖ.]] For these reasons, it is also the aim of the Federal Government that we create a fair and fair framework, so that our tax system can meet these principles even after a comprehensive reform. But it is also clear to me that tax reductions financed by debt are, in fact, tax increases of tomorrow. That is why we have to work out these budgetary margins, which are not available at the moment. Debt making alone is non-social and ultimately always means a redistribution. It can't be future-looking. I therefore firmly believe that, as I have already said, we must not make the debt mountain an insurmountable obstacle in the future, but rather, quite the contrary, we must cut off debt by piece – of course, only when it is possible – because that we are already paying € 7 billion per year in interest, is an incredible burden for the next generations. Therefore, a clear word: Tax relief on pump is not in question for me! I am concerned with real reforms, I am concerned with providing for a modern, a slender state and a real relief for the taxpayer and no new debts and no new taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need real structural reforms. What we want – that is also my program – is that we question tasks in the administration. All that we have on the table has to be tried once again to do with double-tracks, which we have on the table on countless proposals. What we need is for us to become more ambitious at early pensions, more ambitious towards an increase in the actual retirement age. In this regard, we have implemented a lot, but we need to do more about it. Thirdly, we also need to increase the efficiency potential of the major cost drivers. If we want infrastructure in Austria, yes, but please do not have such amounts that we spend every year on it. The multi-promotions remain a special topic. We have a transparency database, which is now slowly starting to work in the direction that we can detect double-tracks. That is why it is a task to eliminate these too. It's clear to me: The more these reforms are addressed, the sooner we have a margin for tax relief. Only such reforms are the key to genuine and sustainable tax relief. So what we have to do is start this year with a proposal for a new tax system. I would like to have such a proposal on the table this year. We have an expert group to do this. the Federal Ministry of Finance, which will be established tomorrow. We want to draw up a simpler classification, we want to strike through the Gordic knots of hundreds of thousands of exceptions in the tax system, because they also cost a lot of money and take room for ourselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] So from my point of view, I say: What I call for is a tax reform that brings about a real relief. I want to improve families, I want to bring relief to businesses and farmers and thus promote employment. I would like to see a tariff relief for the middle class. Work in particular must pay more. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] If today you look at the space between those who work and those who do not work, then it is to say that there is something done. And of course I would also like to see a simple, new tax system with structural reforms, also a re-codification of the Income Tax Act. I also say what I do not want: new taxes and a new redistribution. That's not my goal. If we are once again aware of the questions in the reception statement by Mrs Klubobfrau, I say a clear commitment to the discharge of the middle class, but not by new taxes, but by a real tax relief. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Before I come to the individual questions, allow me once again to make a preliminary remark, ladies and gentlemen. I have studied all the questions carefully, Mrs Colleague, and I can tell you that it is already clear in the parliamentary process: You can ask questions about enforcement. – The questions you ask are questions to a party observer and not to a finance minister. As far as I am concerned as I can as Minister of Finance, I am going to address it, but I am asking for understanding. A political discussion may also take place in the House, but for this you would have to ask for a current hour and not a urgent request. I come to questions 1 to 4: As I said earlier, this is a real reform and an honest relief for all taxpayers. This means that, instead of new taxes or new debts, real structural reforms are required. I believe that we can only develop a margin for tax reform. Questions 5 and 6: The main key points for the tax reform are in the government programme. In the sense of a real relief for the middle class, the input tax rate is to be reduced by 25 percent, while at the same time flattening progression. The tax reform will provide a sustainable relief for families, simplifying the income tax law and the payment of wages. The aim is to redefine the Income Tax Act and to harmonise the basis of assessment with the social security system. These are the points from the government programme, and this is the basis for further work. Question 7: I should also like to refer you to the government programme. The reduction in the rate of income tax on income and wage taxes in the direction of 25 percent seems particularly important. Question 8: The mandate to the Tax Reform Commission is the result of the government programme, as I have already quoted. At first, the experts will draw up results, which will then be discussed in a single step politically, honoured and ultimately made a draft. On the question 9: You're asking what I've been talking to the Chancellor. – What the government programme says is the answer. It is also understandable that we have discussed this as the basis for negotiations on this tax reform commission. Questions 10 and 11: I would like to answer the questions regarding a planned tax reform model or its planned scope under one of the following: The key points are defined by the work programme, as already proposed, as follows: Entry tax rate in the direction of 25 percent, second family relief. Thirdly, Income tax law and wage settlement are to be simplified and tax legislation is generally made clearer and more comprehensible. They also find in the government programme the point that the burden on Austrian companies with additional labour costs is to be reduced. This will support sustainable competitiveness and growth in the Austrian economy and boost employment. Question 12: When implementing a tax reform, I will not lose sight of the objective of a solid government budget. That is why there will be no tax reform on pump with me. The only way to do so can be through structural reforms so that we reduce the state and make our state budget stable. The experts are already working on this task with high pressure. On the question 13: Of course, the employees in the Federal Ministry of Finance are constantly dealing with opportunities to improve the tax provisions. They have shed light on various aspects and also questioned and used calculations, but the preparation of proposals, which are then calculated in concrete terms, is initially reserved for a concept towards the Tax Reform Commission. You can't do that on suspicion, but only with a concrete order. Therefore, the tax reform commission must first provide a direction, then it is calculated in concrete terms. Question 14: The estimates of the proposed millionaires or wealth tax of SPÖs carried out in my home are based on the old asset tax under the Wetbesgesetz 1954 and have been calculated on the basis of today's conditions. However, I would like to say that a concrete model does not exist, but that only the old data have been counted to the present state of affairs. Question 15: I would like to discuss this a little more closely. They want to know exactly if, over the next five years, each level of income tax is to be paid annually by: 3 percent lowers and then reduces the input tax rate to 21.5 percent, the peak tax rate to 35 percent, as it does exactly every year. – Mrs. Colleague, this is a comprehensive work. This is impossible within five hours which I have had time to answer the urgent question, even if, as you ask, you should also take into account the economic second-round effect. That is why I am asking for understanding, and that is not the case. Let us first wait for proposals from the Tax Reform Commission! There will also be model calculations there, but these will take time if they are to be really solid. Questions 16 to 18: One of the measures to create scope for a genuine tax reform is the elimination of double and multiple funding. The transparency database will, for the first time, offer the possibility of uniformizing the funding system of the Republic beyond the borders of the individual regional authorities. It is thus an essential instrument for reforming the funding system in Austria. Through this transparency database, we will have a better decision-making basis for the development of funding strategies in the future, as well as better control and slimmer processes in funding, because then data will be available at a glance. Such transparency, which goes beyond the limits of competence of each support body, then provides an important basis for the political decisions to be taken by the federal, state and local authorities. The extent of the actual savings must then also be defined in a common perspective. In this context, the Federal Government, in accordance with its work programme, took part in the meeting on 20 February. In May 2014, it decided to set up a task and deregulation commission with representatives of the federal, state and private sector. The Commission has four subgroups which support them in their work. These subgroups are given jobs by the Commission and report on the results achieved. One of the subgroups will deal with the issue of promotion and its reform, in particular through modernisation, efficiency improvement and optimisation of resource use. The Federal Government's decision expects the Commission to submit first proposals for implementation to the Federal Government within six months. In addition, each department, all countries, all municipalities in its area of activity must critically review what is available in terms of potential. The BMF has already – I would like to stress this – taken in-house arrangements. We have also put into effect a task critique. On questions 19 to 22, tax privileges of individual professional groups: In this tax reform commission, it will be one of the tasks to identify favours or disadvantages, or, in short, to identify rejections in tax law and to make proposals for improvement. This will not be possible to refer to all exceptions, but to those that are also relevant when you see the figures behind them. There is currently no so-called list of privileges, but you can understand all the exceptions in the income tax field today, including in the wage tax field, because they are included in the law. It'll be all to question. But this work is only now being started in the Tax Reform Commission. In question 23, the cost of this reform commission is as follows: Members and experts work on an voluntary basis. Therefore, it is not with additional food. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission is prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Community's financial resources can be used to finance the development of the Community's structural funds. On question 24 the members of the Commission concerning: He is the head of the Federal Ministry of Finance Gunter Mayr; he is head of the tax section. Experts are in alphabetical order: Christopher Berka, Otto Farny, Bernhard Gröhs, Heinz Harb, Alfred Heiter, Georg Kofler, Ralf Kronberger, Maria Kubitschek, Werner Muhm and Andreas Zakostelsky. On question 25: The appointment of experts in the Austrian Federal Government's Tax Reform Commission was not based on the party's membership, but on the requirements of the Austrian Federal Government's work programme for the years 2014 to 2018. This provides that, under the leadership of the BMF, experts from the social partners, the self-government body, the science and representatives of the government parties must be sent to the Tax Reform Commission. As far as the answer to your questions is concerned. I thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17593	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Steinbichler on his excellent report. Mr President, you know the rule: two minutes, first the corrective, then the corrected matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17623	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Minister of Finance has said in his statement that there are tax reliefs from agriculture. I'm actually correcting: Unfortunately, the redefinition of unit values leads to substantial tax additional charges, i.e. higher social security contributions, i.e. higher membership contributions, and – contrary to the government's objective of reimbursing work – the introduction of a livestock and meat supplement leads to enormous taxation of work. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not an actual correction!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17671	Mr deputies, have all these been decisions you have listed? If not, it would not have been an actual correction. [[Abg. Rädler: Wasn't it anyway!]] Mr Vetter spoke in favour of an actual correction. No, I'm sorry, no actual correction, you're speaking as a debate speaker. Speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17735	Madam President. Minister! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Democracy means the rule of the people, democracy means the rule of the majority, but democracy also means the protection of the minority. Protection of the minority is sometimes more popular and sometimes less popular. We have certain laws, hate paragraphs, anti-discrimination paragraphs, equal treatment laws. After a well-known Austro barden, every Austrian is somehow a member of a minority. Today, when we talk about taxes, you like to have a number in your mouth – from those who want to collect a new tax –: It's just a few thousand that are affected. Or: It's only a few tens of thousands that are affected. – It may be a few tens of thousands today, but in a few years it may be a few hundred thousand, because in history a tax base has often been increased, which I will still talk about. When we talk about rich taxes, I can tell you that it has never become a country richer because the rich have been made poorer. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes! There are examples! USA!]] Such taxes are very often counterproductive because they send people abroad because capital simply flees, capital that is today as mobile as never before. Persecuting one’s own benefactors has never benefited a nation, a country. Nor is it able to criminalise the people you want to tax. It is not skillful to suggest to certain foreign restaurants that they only operate money laundering as such. It is not skillful to suggest to those who have money that they use mafia methods. It is not able to imply to those who have money that this can only be done through crime and corruption. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If today, in general, there is a call for a collective reform, for a tax reform, then we must say: Yeah, it's right to make a tax reform. If today the tax rate – and I say again, all tax rates are too high – if today the tax rate in Austria is 36 percent and in the United States the top rate is 38 percent, then quite clearly it is a little lazy. I am reluctant to do so, except for the members of the SPÖ. It's just too high! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But precisely because we have had this system for so long, ladies and gentlemen, and this 50 percent peak tax rate and this 36 percent input tax rate was also thought for only a few, you have to see that with the time, with the cold progression, precisely this system has come to a mass tax. Faith You really think it would be different at the asset tax, where you want to put your foot in the door now and say: It's just a few tens of thousands!Unknown term type: "%s".? There is no institution that is as greedy as the state as money is. This is precisely what you see in the process of reforming the wage tax system. It would be the same with the asset tax, where you would easily reach the mass in time. That is exactly why we have to be very clear about this today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It would happen the same as in the past 25 years in the cold progression that it would finally catch the wide mass. A few days ago I was in an inn, by the way, there were a lot of innkeepers, and they asked me: Why does SPÖ want to introduce the registration fee for us? We already have the registration fee obligation from a turnover of € 150 000 per year! Do they really believe that the introduction of the registration bank obligation to hosts under an annual turnover of €150 000 would make a more substantial contribution to tax revenue, just as it has been colported? – Since, I have to say honestly, I got into an argumentation emergency and didn’t know what to escape them. Then these hosts said: Is it actually permitted for a party of a particular professional group to have damaged the State at this level by means of tax evasion? – I had to tell them that these anti-discrimination rules apply to religion, apply to a particular view of the world, but do not apply to a particular professional group, such as the host. On the contrary: The indirect accusation of collective tax evasion towards a particular profession simply and simply represents the sublimated form of class struggle! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They understood this, except for one who showed up and said last week hundreds of demonstrators in Vienna were all yelling: stupid police! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Is there an indication of where you're going?]] Are they not protected? – I had to fit again, and I got back into an argumentation emergency. No, they haven't been protected as a professional group either! Then there was another host who got up and said: Registration fee for the Burgtheater! That's where I asked: Why the Burgtheater? – Yes, he had read in the newspaper that there should be a black money account system at the Burgtheater, so he could demand a registration bank obligation at the Burgtheater. Then the next host got up and said: Then I ask for the registration of all the federal theatres! – Yes, what should I say about it?- Oh, my God! There was then another host who got up. Do you know what he said? – He said: Registration of registers for all state enterprises! – jobs You're up to this! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Arbitration!]] I tried to tell him: Presumption of innocence, you can't close from one to the other! Then they told me: Yes, but the SPÖ also closes from individual hosts to all hosts and says that you could get 500 million € more in government revenue! [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr. Colleague, change the inn, you have a bad host!]] But you won't believe it, then there was another host who got up and said: And what about the SPÖ? Did you notice that exactly at the time the BAWAG lost all its money, the SPÖ was discharged?- Oh, my God! - I didn't know what to say again. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where is this host?]] Then came another host who asked: Do you know the Telekom with the bills and the financing? Then I didn't know what to say again. And then came a host who said: There was a telecommunications speaker in the SPÖ who received payments from Deutsche Telekom and then suddenly stopped running! I'm telling you, if this red lamb didn't shine here, I'd be able to tell you a lot more about what the host told you about the SPÖ, but that's just how I can direct you, ladies and gentlemen: If the SPÖ requires the registration of the host, then the host demands the registration of the Bundestheater, for the state companies and for the Social Democratic Party of Austria, the SPÖ! – Friendship!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17869	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators now speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17890	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! The subject of tax reform or reform of the tax system is one that is far more serious than that it can be presented here with an admittedly perhaps funny description of the random accumulation of many hosts in the host. However, I would recommend that you, Mr Cot: If you go back to an inn again, see who's inside, or order a decent slibowitz! Perhaps then your own stories are easier to bear, for they are not realistic and true. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what many people have dealt with – and that is also the point of the discussion about the tax system – is the fact that there is a gap in the system itself. There is a Europe-wide, global gap that the return on capital, on assets invested, is growing much more strongly than the return on society as a whole, namely economic growth. If this shale exists for a long time, then there is a redistribution in the wrong direction, namely from the poorer layers to the richer layers, or there is the phenomenon – and that is rightly perceived as unfair – that those who go hard to work not only have the feeling, but it is also a fact that they have less yield and increase in earnings from their work than those who do not go to work, but only invest and invest in wealth or invest less skillfully. This is a misaligned situation that belongs to elimination and that is discussed. This is not only a subject in Austria, but also a global issue, but also we in Austria have to deal with it, because we also have alarming conditions in our own numbering plant, namely that the wage tax revenue is already higher than the VAT. Historically, VAT revenue is greater than wage tax revenue. If this turns out to be the case, then there are two factors: firstly, that our consumption is too weak and that we need support, and secondly, that workers in that country are disproportionately contributing to the financing of the state. It is precisely from this point of view that we need to discuss a discharge, because a reduction in wage taxation, particularly with the focus on lower and medium income, also leads people to put this additional net income into consumption and thus not only to have more of it themselves, but also to the economy on domestic demand having an economic effect that they so urgently need. This is a way that is also discussed, because both workers on the one hand and the economy – especially the host, the businessmen, the hard-working – have something of it, on the other hand, because more money is spent again. We also have gaps in the system. It is still the case that our tax system is not in arrears-resistant enough. There are still opportunities for tax evasion, which is not punished and persecuted. We have just discussed these days the increase in the penalties in the case of self-admission, because this is also a logical and reasonable reaction, that people who are in the tax evasion. are caught, not only make it a criminal release, but rather staggered by the height, the more they have retreated – and that is not the question of whether anyone has forgotten something, these are dimensions, where the forgotten thing would then be medically examined, but there is usually a malicious background – they will be proved with a punishment. In this context, it is also possible to quote international institutions – you could have done this with their host – where others, such as Christian Social, sit on the board of directors, such as the International Monetary Fund, where the head is the former Conservative French Finance Minister from the Sarkozy government. She recently said in the country report on Austria that she recommends that Austria make a deficit-neutral wage tax reform with a relief in particular for lower incomes. “Austria has a relatively high tax burden and taxs work particularly strongly”, says the IMF. “The share of work in total tax revenue in Austria is highest throughout the euro area”. If you look at the statistics, you can see the following: We are high on labour taxation, on capital taxation and on property taxation, we are among the final lights in Europe and in the OECD world. That's exactly what's going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The OECD says the same thing as the European Commission, which also recommends that we move the sources of taxation, bring about a relief from labour and a greater burden on capital. I also call you two numbers: 1 billion € Tax relief leads to additional GDP and economic growth of 0.2 or 0.3 percent, if you take at hand the multipliers that the Wifo has calculated. This means, at the same time, the creation of additional 2 000 to 5 000 jobs. If you now count, starting from a tax volume of €4 billion, all times four, then you can see: There is a business package – a small economic package, but an Austrian economic package – and also an employment package behind it hidden! Now on another question, to address this briefly: Are the rich, the millionaires of Austria as unsocial as it is often assumed to them? - No! There is a wealth of people who say they also see this wrong position in the Austrian tax system and would be willing if the labour factor were to be reduced to contribute more to the tax performance via the asset side. I'm just quoting one of them from the “profile”, Christian Köck, he says: “This is why we in Austria definitely need an inheritance and gift tax, nor is it anti-performance, on the contrary: It is anti-performance not to have an inheritance and gift tax. () I pay a lot too many labour-related taxes and too little wealth-related taxes – and I am convinced that many wealthy people think like me.” – Quote by Christian Köck, who is one of those who also say there would have to be a system change here. In conclusion: Mrs. Nachbaur – or directed to the Stronach team, because I can't direct my words to her [[Abg. You've got that hand.]] You're not Mrs. Rebaur! Perhaps this was the problem with the host that so many people have told you something – because you have now shown up here! I wanted to replicate what woman Rebaur has said and what is also in the urgent question, namely: If one takes at hand the requests of the Stronach team, then the social gap goes into the Insanity about, because in your model it is said that people with a gross salary of €2 400, that is, quite smaller earners, would have a relief of €1 700, but people with a club content of €14 000 gross a discharge of €22 100 per month. To be honest: If you're serious about this, write to me: Team Stronach, a social, party of the rich!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e17988	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18009	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! There is no question that everyone here in the House is in favour of tax reductions at the level of the tax rate we have. That's not the question. The question is: Do we create framework conditions that we can also afford a real tax reduction? For us it is too little to think about how to take something away from the burden on the one hand, but on the other hand it immediately adds a tax burden. At 45 percent – and we are beyond 45 percent – we need to create the framework conditions for us to be able to actually get a discharge. That's the big challenge! The Austrian People's Party was always the party that felt that the individual should have as much freedom as possible. That is, our concept is not that we want more state and less private, but we want exactly the opposite: where it is possible, less state and more private! That is, where we – perhaps quite positively meant – were superfluous on the expenditure side of the result, we want to manage to take back something in one area or another. A difficult undertaking! Mr Schieder and I have been assigned to the Ministry of Finance once before when we tried to come up with reforms with the federal states. We have brought this to quite a large extent in the negotiations, but we cannot conclude it. I am thinking, for example, of the administration of teachers, where I assume it is possible this time, because there is a desire from all the federal states to remove the double-tracks – here the national school councils as a federal administration, along with the school departments of the countries. Does it make a difference whether a school guard is a compulsory school or an AHS? In one case, Vienna is responsible, in the other case, the responsibility on the ground is correct. So that doesn't make any difference for me. But I'm telling you: This is exactly the point where we are now! Therefore, I think it is right that, in addition to the experts who advise on tax reform, experts who have to think about it and also draw up proposals on how we can achieve corresponding reductions on the expenditure side. This is a very essential question, and I believe that is the key to a genuine discharge; only then will we be able to actually achieve a cost reduction on the expenditure side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are many areas where you can reduce costs, but that is not easy to implement. We have had a pension debate this morning, and I do not agree with everything the NEOS say about it – I still see a Member of the NEOS, the Clubobmann is no longer represented – but they are right in one thing: that the Austrian pension system, especially as regards the age of accession, is a very, very generous system and that we have to take steps to get to where Sweden has been for a long time. Let us look at the employment rate of the group of 55-year-olds to 64-year-olds with us and those in Sweden! In Sweden it is 70 percent, with us less than 40 percent. There's a wide range between them! But it has to go in the right direction, and the right direction for me is certainly the system in Sweden. The right direction for me is not the system in France, because you can see what problem the French Government has because Hollande meant to have to take a step back, i.e. to go down for certain groups at the age of retirement. This does not correspond to our development that is to thank God one where the average life expectancy increases year after year. But at the age of retirement, we are where we were under Bruno Kreisky at the beginning of the seventies, only life expectancy has increased by eleven years in Austria – thank God!, that can only be seen positively. That's where we have to sit! But there are also other major cost drivers, where you only have to look at them, for example in the area of infrastructure, at the ÖBB. You have to look at that, and if there are savings there, you have to use it too, you can't just look over it. We have much to discuss with the federal states when it comes to the whole funding area. So one challenge after another, and I'm confident we can do it. We have agreed a good timetable with SPÖ: now the expert round up to October, then the political evaluation, then a corresponding bill and in about a year's time the decision-making here in the House. That's a realistic plan. And on the question of whether capital taxes are at the end of the day, I say to you: I ask the SPÖ to also discuss with their former Federal Chancellors. I quote two: Alfred Gusenbauer and Franz Vranitzky. Franz Vranitzky meant: “It had a good reason that I, together with Finance Minister Lacina, abolished the property tax. If I hear that the house builders are not to be taxed, what remains?" And Alfred Gusenbauer, also Chancellor of the Social Democrats – Do you have anything against Alfred Gusenbauer? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Always had!]] Good. Alfred Gusenbauer meant: “To believe that the budget deficits ( ) will be able to cope with wealth taxes alone – this is not the case. () I was always of the opinion that substance taxation is not the best way.” – So far as two SPÖ Federal Chancellors are concerned! And I'll tell you: We will discuss this, and in the end we will see which German Chancellor we follow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18071	Mr Dr. Fuchs is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18092	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! With a tax rate of more than 45 percent of GDP, Austria has a negative peak in European comparison with Rank 5 and is thus already ahead of Sweden. It is also worrying that in this year's year's wage tax will overtake the State's most important source of revenue. Wage tax and turnover tax together account for two thirds of the total public taxes. However, that means that at least two thirds of the total public taxes are paid by the workers, because the entrepreneurs can recover the VAT as a pre-tax. The fact that there must be a massive tax relief is probably beyond dispute. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The 2014 Tax Change Act, adopted in spring, was a step in the wrong direction. Instead of tax relief, this law brought us an additional burden of € 771 million for this year and € 1.2 billion for the following years, although there were also positive aspects to be mentioned. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Matznetter.]] With more than 51 percent of GDP, Austria also has the eighth highest expenditure ratio worldwide. Austria has no revenue problem, but we have a massive expenditure problem. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Hagen.]] We have heard very reasonable views from Mr Klubobmann Lopatka today, but this knowledge does not seem to have arrived at the SPÖ, because the SPÖ does not want to reduce taxes in total, but merely re-distributes the taxes. But if you not only want to redistribute tax burdens, but actually reduce taxes, you must also be prepared to reduce public expenditure. However, neither the ÖVP nor the SPÖ seem to be ready for this at present. [[Abg. Matznetter: the millionaires!]] Mr Commissioner, you can speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. But here and not from the bank! [[Abg. Matznetter: I'm talking anyway!]] [[New calls from the Abg. Matznetter.]] However, a reduction in expenditure is essential in order to be able to relieve workers. A few statistics: 39 percent of taxpayers receive an annual income of up to €11 000, 38 percent of a maximum of €25 000, 20 percent of a maximum of €60 000, and only 3 percent over €60 000. This means, however, that 77 percent of taxpayers have a maximum annual income of only €25 000. That is where the main thrust of a tax reform must begin! This group must be relieved immediately, with a reduction in the input tax rate from currently unscathed 36.5% to 25 percent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cold progression must also be eliminated so that wage increases are no longer consumed by inflation and taxes! We therefore call for a regular adjustment of progression levels to the inflation rate. In the current discussion, however, it should not be overlooked that workers need not only to be taxed on wages but also on social taxes. The social contributions are disproportionately taxed on low incomes. Let me give you an example. Whoever earns 1,500 € gross a month today gets 1 159 € net transferred to the account, 341 € will be deducted from the employee. And what do you think about how much of it goes about wage tax or social security? – The wage tax is only 85 €, but social security is increasing by 256 €. In this example, social security is three times as high as the wage tax. These workers can certainly not help you with a wage tax reduction, these workers only benefit from a relief from social taxes. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] But the state is not only seizing from the employee, but also from the employer. At a gross salary of €1500, the state collects 469 € additional wage costs from the employer. The employer thus has costs of €1 969 so that the employee remains €159. The state collects €810 in total, because the ratio is no longer true. And the Federal Government is still bickering with the fact that it has reduced the additional wage costs by 0.2 percentage points this year. The employer thus saves himself on average 20 €, but in the year! That's 1,67 € per month. By the way, social taxes are almost as high as the two strongest sources of taxation, namely wage tax and VAT combined. We're talking about 47.6 billion euros here. But the trade unions and chambers don't like to talk about it. The trade unions and chambers should not only call for a loud tax reform, but also for a reform of social taxes. I am already excited to see to what extent the red representatives of the Chamber of Labour will be present in the tax reform commission, Muhm, Kubitschek and Farny. [[Abg. Krainer: They don’t do it at all! Bring in!]] That's what we're going to do. No subject in the labour cost debate is also the inefficient, overbureaucratised social security system, not to mention the forced membership contributions to the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce. This accounts for € 700 million per year of additional wage costs. As a result, the Chambers could go ahead with a good example and make their contribution to a reduction in the cost of wages. This would be a first concrete proposal that the representatives of the Chamber of Labour could make in the Tax Reform Commission. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution and expressly welcome the launch of a popular survey by the Chamber of Labour Tyrol or the Chamber of Labour Vorarlberg: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More net of gross! – but not through new taxes, as the SPÖ suggests, but through structural reform and a reduction in government expenditure. A clear no to property taxes! Today, of course, we have requested a nameable vote on this motion for a resolution to see how social democrats are really social.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18214	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18298	Next speaker: Clubwoman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18320	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I wanted to go with Mrs Klubobfrau Rebaur is still happy to enter into a dialogue because she has made the request, perhaps one can do that to her. She has said something that I do not agree with at all, but I do not particularly agree with one. It meant that a tax reform discussion is a distraction in order not to have to talk about the banking disaster. There is no need to worry at all about the fact that we do not remain at all in this House regarding the banking disaster and the settlement, the form of society here, even here in the House today, at the end of the agenda, there will again be a joint request for an investigation committee on Hypo Alpe-Adria. I don't think you need to worry about that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will bring him in until he finally finds a majority, and you can go out of it, Mr Rädler. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's where you can nod, exactly! This will be very soon, for education is urgently needed. [[Abg. Krainer: don't need a majority soon!]] In this context, perhaps a sentence to you, Minister of Finance: The handling of the 900 million € subordinate capital at Hypo Alpe-Adria is expressly our consent. It's just a shame that this path is not going to be wider and further, that you didn't think of it with other creditors, that you've only done it for this small 900 million € area instead of this almost 1:1 transitional solution for the taxpayers. But still, on this question you have our support expressly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now on the tax reform discussion: I not only think that a tax reform debate is necessary, but I also feel that a tax reform is urgently needed. That's actually the point we've been wandering around a little bit today. We have heard the Klubobmann Schieder, who so to speak represented the SPÖ position, we have heard the Klubobmann Lopatka, who has already disappeared again. So, obviously, the tax reform debate is not such a big concern. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I'm just saying we really have a problem. We have a tax structure problem that we should have discussed in all seriousness – and we should have done it for a long time. Now, when I look at the ÖVP path, the promise of salvation comes again, it will be expenditure side by side, the reforms will now finally be started, the jungle in the funding system – double, triple funding, for example – will finally be launched. I'm just telling you one thing: It's really hard to listen to this, because we've heard that for years now. So the funding reform was already agreed between the government groups in the Paipersdorf Saving Package in 2012. - And she's just been canceled. So that's something very difficult. Now there is this so-called task and deregulation committee, and I am already alone with the word almost physical pain, because in this area of administrative reform we already have so many proposals on the table in hours, weeks and months of work that it is no longer necessary to use another task and deregulation commission now. [[Abg. Moser: Convention!]] So Austria Convention, the Court of Auditors, the Austrian talks, so many proposals are simply at the table that you have to start. A reform of the school administration was also promised in the debate on the budget on the reform of the school administration. To this day there are no concrete steps. And that's why it's a little laborious to have this discussion this way. Above all, there is also no recognizable argument for me why a party, which is 27 years in the government and which has been in the government since 2008 together with the SPÖ, did not start years ago to really turn every cent around on this expenditure page, to look at how it is with environmentally harmful subsidies, where we really promote double, triple and multiple, especially large businesses, and so on and so on. So that's hard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a tax reform discussion, which gives an answer, in particular, to whole, very relevant questions. A question that burns me particularly under the nails is what it really looks like with performance justice and with tax justice. You have to face up to what many people really have at the moment for a feeling! When considering a woman with €11 000: Am I in the afternoon care? If I take an extra hoard care?, and she slips into the first level of income tax, it's a very difficult decision for her to make whether to do it at all. So if you're talking about family hostility, then it's exactly the question of remission of these incomes, which are mostly women, one of the most important issues you should start immediately! That's why you can't move that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Micro-enterprises: Once young people have finally come through and manage to hire one, two, three people, then they are hit by a payroll tax in addition to the high wage costs. - I mean, are you okay?- Oh, my God! There is no such thing as this throughout Europe. These are real site disadvantages that are really a brake on the so-called detachment of the economy. The third is the following: If we talk about a contribution from the rich, I would not want to lead it so ideologically, but rather a little fact-oriented. Neither the OECD nor the EU Commission nor the International Monetary Fund are ideological associations, but they are extremely fact-oriented. And if you now, even before this tax reform commission starts to work, give up thinking bans: There must be no such thing as that! There must be no such thing!, then I ask myself: What do we need, then, a tax reform commission, if everything is first ideologically determined?- Oh, my God! Leave You are working this Commission a little bit more freely, really looking at these international recommendations! It is urgent. Austria is a high tax country for work and a low tax country for capital taxes and environmental taxes. This is not just a question of the Greens and, I do not know, the Red Youth, and now the Clubobmann Arbitrator – although only as an opinion and not as a negotiating point, for we always hear this only as a SPÖ opinion, but not as a political position in negotiations, which is, by the way, very bad – but there is fact-oriented evidence for that. [[Abg. Arbitrators: red youth, because I'm there too!]] Let's talk about it without putting any of these scams in the room. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This has nothing to do with medium-sized exposure. Once two thirds of the assets in Austria are 10 percent of the population and, if we take an area of the million limit, if we do not even catch 5 percent of Austrian households, you can seriously think about it. So I would ask you to be a little more liberal on these questions, not to prohibit thought and to really think about what is on the table and what opportunities exist to achieve tax justice, performance, environmental compatibility and to actually set growth-enhancing impulses, without scramble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18433	Mr Dr. Hable is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18454	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! In recent weeks we have experienced a tax discussion between ÖVP and SPÖ, I would say a acting. And it almost seems to have observed this discussion that you have only been sitting in the Federal Government since yesterday. Therefore, I would remind you that the SPÖ has been in the Federal Government almost continuously since 1970 and is the Federal Chancellor and the ÖVP has been in the Federal Government since 1987 and is consistently the Minister of Finance. That is to say, everything we are discussing here today, and all that you too have lamented and criticized by SPÖ and ÖVP is not a random product. It is the result of SPÖ and ÖVP policies. In this discussion, the SPÖ has covered itself with new tax proposals. Therefore, we also say NEOS quite consciously: That's the wrong way! We can't always throw new taxes into a barrel without a floor! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But I also do not want to miss the ÖVP – before now the ÖVP claps – because you, Minister of Finance, entered this National Council election with the slogan “No new taxes!”, have moved all over the country and have said: No new taxes with us! What did we see a few months later? A tax-change law that increases taxes by €5 billion. Despite these record taxes, which we are now experiencing in this country, we are also experiencing record debt. What is going on in this whole discussion – what really is happening to me! – are the structural reforms. Therefore, I would also like to officially report a missing message: a missing indication of structural reforms. Where are they? [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Hagen.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] And I do not mean the discussion about structural reforms that we have experienced for years and decades. I do not mean the announcements of structural reforms, which we have experienced for years and decades. But I can probably tell you where you will find them in this missing ad: They'll find them in drawers! In drawers you will find all these structural reforms, and we are still waiting for implementation. The question is what happens to all this money, with all these record taxes. And I'm not gonna let myself be told that this is all well-used money. All of this doesn't go into schools, hospitals, universities, otherwise we'd get through with Switzerland's tax rate: 28 percent tax rate, balanced budget; Austria: 45 percent tax rate, budget deficit. Where's the money coming from? – You just know it never comes. The sportsmen's promotion does not come to the athletes' attention. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] Education policy: Education expenditure does not reach the classroom. Health policy: Billion expenditure is very often not in the patient's hands. The question then is, where does it come from? Where do these record tax revenues come from? And here, as the first example, I would like to mention just reading the Court of Auditors reports, because these Court of Auditors reports document a series of mismanagement. The sadness is, something never happens, there are no consequences. Today we will be talking about the Dorotheum as an example. Example number two, public display: Someone has to explain to me why the public hand, why the Ministries and all the other institutions need ads! €200 million was spent in 2013, for ads. Why not have a press conference? That's what everyone else does. Why do they have to be colorful pictures in certain newspapers? Example three, Hypo Alpe-Adria, we're going to talk about it today: Of course, a lot of money has already been reduced, and 7 billion cash and guarantees are already inside and thus already gone. 4 billion is estimated by the Executive Board – other internal sources say there will be more than €6 billion to €10 billion – so estimated €15 billion will cost us this disaster. Minister of Finance, I welcome the intention to participate in the creditors. That's all right, is a step in the right direction. But I also say: What you're doing here, with this legal regulation, the Lex Hypo, that's really a partial insolvency without insolvency – and that's why you're dealing with the disadvantages without winning the benefits of insolvency. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What should tax policy look like? – From the point of view of NEOS, tax policy must turn around three pillars. These three pillars are: less, simpler and fairer. Why it needs to be less, I don't have to explain that for long. When it comes to football, it's probably not going to be anything, but as far as taxation is concerned, Austria always plays for the world champion title with: 45 percent, I have already said – Switzerland only 28 percent. What to do? – For example, the cold progression must finally be abolished, the permanent tax increase without Parliament’s decision. We have tabled a request for this. We have already completed the first reading, and the statements of SPÖ and ÖVP have already been rejected. So we fear the usual outcome, namely funeral in committee. The objective, on the other hand, must be to reduce the tax rate and drive down the level in a first step towards 40 percent – and that would only be the level of Germany. In addition to – first – less – it has to – second – become easier. In fact, for 20 years this country has not experienced any tax reform, it is always just a conflict, indiscriminate change of individual provisions. And if I say, for 20 years: I can't judge it before, because that was my time, but definitely not in the last 20 years! They only needed to look at the codex tax law, i.e. the collection of Austrian tax law: Its scope has increased by 40 percent over the last ten years, from 2004 to 2014. The tax law code, the Austrian tax laws have become 40 percent more fatter in the last ten years! [[Abg. Neubauer: That's where the lawyers deserve good!]] This is a condition that we can no longer bear. That is why I would like to say quite openly again what is to be done: Get away, for example, with the bagatell taxes! Why do we have an air tax? Just because some awnings and other parts are out of the public foothills, do we pay a tax for them? - Get away with this air tax! Get away with this just imported sect tax, too! It only brings high administrative burden, but no effects. Away with the legal fees, for example – all known – the rental contract fee. When you move in as a tenant, the first thing you get into your hand is an invoice on the rental contract fee. And, of course, we also need a fairer tax system – not only less, but also more justly! I would like to ask a question to the SPÖ colleagues because you are so happy to talk about justice: Then what about the working-chamber housing? It is first of all intrusive, because it is not on the wage mark, it is hidden in social security contributions. She's a flat tax – what you always fight. And this Chamber of Workers' Circumstance applies to everyone! That means, even those who earn so little that they don't have to pay taxes, are sure to pay the Chamber of Labour! And before the ÖVP screams: This applies equally to the Chamber of Commerce. We even have two of them. And by the way, this is also a substance tax against which you are so violent. What is to be done in this area? – Get away with the tax privileges! Getting away with the more than 500 exceptions, which in truth nobody understands anyway, where the effect is completely unclear, which comes true at all. In summary – that is the foreign exchange of our NEOS – the three pillars of tax policy must be: It has to be less, it has to be easier and it needs to be fairer! I fear only as long as we have a red-black majority in this House, it will not come to pass. But we NEOS will continue to keep the pressure on this matter high, and we will keep this pressure high until this country sees a tax reform, a tax reform that also deserves this name. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18539	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18561	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Saint Thomas of Aquin, who besides his theological competence was a great philosophy of law, said that taxes are legalized robbery. That's what happened in the 13th century. ==References== [[Abg. Podgorshek: There they have had a toe!]] Even then, we had a lot of thoughts about the question: How fair are taxes at all? For Saint Thomas, taxes were only reasonable if they were kept as low as possible and served absolutely for the common good. That is to say, in principle, the question of the philosophy of the law, namely: What is right if we collect taxes? In principle, taxes are something they take away from others. So you have to think about it very well, and Thomas von Aquin's approach is actually a very useful one, even nearly 1,000 years later. The Middle Ages were addressed – I am just talking about it. At that time – we learned it in school – the farmer was pressed off the toe. That was 10 percent. Today we have a tax rate of almost 50 percent, the third highest in Europe. We left them at home. We call this mega-tent euphemistic “state quota”, and in Austria we have the bad luck that we also have to work for the state on the third floor. An institute in Brussels, the Molinari Institute, raises the Tax Liberation Day each year. It turns out in Austria to 25 years old. ==References====External links== In Denmark – the highly praised Denmark, which is repeatedly cited as an example, also by all the political groups here in the house – only until 7. Work on June and is better placed than Austria in total. That should give us real thought. That means, what can you do as a single person? – Only a tax reform without counter-financing and, of course, only a tax reform without property taxes, wealth taxes, substance taxes. That's not possible for us at all. We want to reduce the expenditure of the State – and not increase the revenue of the State. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Why do we not want any real capital charges? – Well, please, we will not support the populism and the self-interest of the Chancellor, who wants nothing but to be confirmed at the party’s day. That is the only reason why one has now opened this pseudo-class fight on the SPÖ side. Everyone knows that this tax doesn't do anything. Now, please, be careful! You can't agree with that at all. From this point on, the asset tax has already been discussed several times. It's a nonsense! Two figures on this: 1 per cent of the population, by the rich, pay 20 per cent of the taxes. And if I take this out a little, it's 50 percent of the population who pay 90 percent of the taxes. Well, please, where are you going with an asset tax? – Right there, as my previous speaker Georg Vetter said: The tax grows, grows, grows, and only at the mass can you make the checkout. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Right!]] That must always be inside our heads, in the sense of Thomas von Aquin. I would like to warn – with all personal appreciation for the representatives of Social Democracy – of this socialist thought. The SPÖ intends to tax operating assets with its plans. This is investor-responsible, this is harmful to site, and that is not good for Austria. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. El Habbassi.]] And: The SPÖ intends to set up the tax on profit expectations. The Social Democrats already want to have a prepayment before they get any profit at all from the entrepreneur. From my point of view, this is extremely anti-performance and at the border of seriosity – and in turn the class struggle that we have actually overcome. [[Abg. Krainer: That's what everyone does! Every country does that!]] – That doesn’t mean it’s good yet. Then we'll be the first to make it happen, colleague. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] Thank you for the objections. I can answer with Konrad Adenauer. He said: “All the Socialists understand of money is the fact that they want it from others.” I think that this too should at least remain present in the back of our mind. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] I would like to end my remarks with a quote or with a motion for a resolution that I am going to make – I have already brought quotations – in relation to waste. We have great problems with the trend towards the waste of tax money in Austria – I only call Skylink or various tunnel projects. As millions, yes, billions in our country are simmering, and the citizens need to have more participation, more control and more insight. There is already the Whistleblower homepage at the Ministry of Finance. But from our point of view, this is still too complicated for the individual, for the citizen who gets wind from any thing. We want to set up a hotline, a waste fireline, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18693	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18739	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18760	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State! Many of you may still remember when we started discussing the so-called transparency database a few years ago. The Minister of Finance has already mentioned this term in connection with the promotions. This discussion also raised the question of how many people receive transfers and whether there are not double and triple references. And I remember that we or at least some of us have found in these many discussions that nothing is as well documented as transfers, such as the benefits paid to the working people – but that nothing is as bad documented as the assets people have in Austria. [[Abg. Head: That's good!]] - Okay, Mr President, that's a good thing. - I don't mean that. That's where our opinions share. Now, if you take Piketty, who runs across the country with his book, and look at it, you know that in this book of Piketty there is nothing in it about the distribution of wealth in Austria. So Austria is outside – for the simple reason, because there is nothing but the collection of the much quoted and highly criticised Austrian National Bank, namely a survey of how much wealth there is in Austria. And what we still have is that we see – Andi Schieder has already said this – that in 2014 the income from the wage and income tax overtook those from the sales tax. That means what we realize quite clearly is that the purchasing power of people is decreasing. What does that mean? – less investment in the economy, increasing unemployment, increasing demand for transfers, which Austria would have to make for people who are in unemployment. And with regard to the question of whether the debate on property taxation or a tax reform has now been initiated, in order to save (a) our party chairman from the party's meeting or (b) to distract from anything: The beginning of the whole discussion was an interview by the president of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, who said in a newspaper: That's enough! And it is enough for workers in this country! – It was not too long ago when it was exactly what the workers’ representatives were doing, namely that we, the local works councils negotiating, negotiate good wage increases, but ultimately nothing remains in the pocket, because the wage and tax rate is very high. This was the beginning of a discussion, the beginning of a discussion initiated by the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. This discussion has continued continuously, and I would also like to remind you that there were two workers' chamber representatives from the West just recently, namely from Tyrol and Vorarlberg – they were Hämmerle and Zangerl – who said quite clearly: It's enough for us too! The payroll taxes belong down! – Their choice of words was far stronger than that of Foglar, who meant only: Now it's enough!, and one of the two was even asked the question of how to deal with the fact that someone from the party he belongs to is blocking the property taxes. That is, we have a very broad discussion of the workers' interior. The workers want, first of all, to have more in the wallet. And what we want is, of course, also a serious discussion about how we finance it, that is not a question. As far as the issue of wealth taxation and the issue of millionaire taxation is concerned, I believe that it is an essential aspect that people who have a lot of money in this country should also have a fair share in what they get here. [[Abg. Themessl: What do they look like?]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: What do they look like?]] And she does not look like, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, as Mr Kickl has tried to present it today – this bill was very amusing – by trying to say on the basis of the amount of pensions: If I purchase €500 000 in, I don't know, five years or ten years, and then another 500 000, and then count them together, then I have 1 million, and then I'm a millionaire and then I'm taxed! – That’s not how it looks, because if I can put together 500 and 500 in ten years and don’t need it, I live by air and love. I'd like to see these people who have that. If he had one million, he'd still be free, that is, he still doesn't pay for anything. And if he had 1 million and 10 €, he might pay up to 1 percent, i.e. 1 €. That's the bill we need. That means we don't want to talk to the house builders at Weitem. We want to see those people who really have a lot to do with the millionaires. And I would not, as Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, end my remarks with quotations from German chancellors out of service, but I would rather quote my President Erich Foglar, who said: “We no longer want the more than 3.4 million workers to have a constant look at nearly 83 000 million people in the country.” In this sense, trade unionists will be safe from a wage tax reform, but also from the question of asset tax and inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18842	Mrs Tamandel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18863	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! There is much right in this urgent request at the beginning, in the prelude, inside, but unfortunately, much is also only maculature. The Minister of Finance has today outlined exactly what the further road map for a tax reform will look like. And what Mr Hable said – it should become less, simpler and more efficient – has already been said by Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, the predecessor of Mr Spindelegger. So I don't know what separates us from this approach. And if you've heard who's sitting in this expert group today – it's always exciting to see that exactly those who always raise the debate on the tax reform, then, in such discussions after their speech, just subtracte and no longer interested in what the following speakers have to say – that, for example, Mr. Muhm, the workers' chamber director from Vienna, is sitting inside the expert panel, then, I think, is not going to be – I can't imagine – that there is any taboo in thinking and what's being discussed there. I can only say this to my group – and I think it is particularly important to stress this once again –: Of course, we want a wage tax reduction! Of course, we want a tariff reduction and an entrance tax rate of 25 percent! But on this occasion we also want a flattened classification of this tariff, because it cannot be that we have to reduce the entrance tax rate, but then again at €60 000 grossly 50 percent! [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's it! Bravo!]] So, honestly, I think that's not in the inventor's sense that they're the super-rich. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Bravo!]] And that's why we have to take action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also want to relieve the families. And this is very true of me, Mrs Oberhauser, at the SPÖ, that there is never a talk about the families, who are not like couples who do not have children and who live according to the motto “double income, no kids”, who can afford everything and fly anywhere, including those who may be in the middle income segment. Families, who are in addition dependent on children, raise the children who return something to society, we have to relieve them and they will have to pay less taxes in the future! – I am very sorry about our coalition partner. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, I am in favour – and Mr Themessl will then speak in my opinion – of greatly reducing the additional wage costs, of flattening and simplifying them, because this really creates jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] And now you can quote me again. – For this I am and for that I will stand! This is what you can do, because jobs must be the highest priority. And something else, Mr. Themessl – listen to me! –: In fact, wage reductions must also have a steering effect. We need jobs for older workers, otherwise we will not achieve our goal of increasing the actual retirement age by one year or more. And it is at least every year that we can raise the actual retirement age, a billion euros of budget money that we save ourselves. That means we have to deal with that. This is particularly important to me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] What we need, of course, are savings measures. If everyone here mentions that the Court of Auditors has made proposals, has made these and those proposals and the Convention has made proposals, then I am already asking the question: Well, do you believe that the task reform and deregulation commission will reinvent the wheel? These will, of course, also be based on proposals from the Court of Auditors and on other proposals that exist, and of course also at those of the national Heads of State Conference, because we must bring national leaders to bear on this issue. I would like to say very briefly, because I believe that the spectators are always completely confused when Members - and especially Members like Mr Hable, who are not yet in Parliament for so long - are producing and saying that we have not had a tax reform in the last 20 years, we have remembered a few things: We abolished the luxury tax in 1992 - rightly - under a SPÖ Finance Minister. At that time, sales tax on motor vehicles amounted to 32 percent. We lowered these to 20 percent, because we thought that for all cars 32 percent VAT, luxury tax was to be paid. We rightly reduced the peak tax rate from 62 percent to 50 percent under a SPÖ Finance Minister in 1998. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] We rightly abolished the property tax in 1993 because we insisted that there was no exemption at all or no basic exemption at all, and that, although many people had already been affected, the administrative burden was simply too high and it did not bring much. In 2008, we have rightly eliminated the inheritance and gift tax, because we believe that it is a high value if property is passed on to family – children, children. That's what we're going to do! That is why we will be taking part in this committee of experts. And you can insist that we will make a real discharge – our group is in favour of a real discharge! – and we are in favour of savings, because we cannot explain why some groups here in this House call savings horrendous. Even families save something to be able to go on vacation. So that's actually a very simple milkmaid bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18956	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e18988	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The others got lost. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs Tamandel's comments: I am very pleased that the ÖVP has adopted the election programme of the Freeman. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance has already begun to quote from our free elections programme, and you have made further progress. I'm glad! So you're capable of learning. – But you already know that you are not measured by your statements, but by the implementation. If we were up there, we would have already implemented it. [[Abg. Wöger: You don't!]] You haven't implemented it yet, you're just talking about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what is at all an eye-catching in this debate is how the debate is being conducted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - I'm too old then. You know, until we're done, we're too old. You probably too. They will probably no longer belong to this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But what is a pure eye-rewing in this debate is how it is being conducted. Now all the parties in this House agree that the tax rate is too high that, as Mrs Tamandl said, of course the other tax levels also need to be flattened, the tax base for the maximum tax rate must be increased and so on. That's all clear. – But now I remind you of something: Now it's exactly three weeks ago – three weeks! – here, in this House, we have decided a double budget 2014/2015, where no word of a tax reform, no word of an additional wage reduction, no word of any relief for small and medium-sized incomes stood, nothing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] There are good approaches to the reduction in the additional wage costs, which is still too low, I give you the right – you have our support at any time – but now a discussion is being broken down by the fence, and the workers' chamber and trade union unions have begun, and the Chamber of Commerce has agreed to this choir. Now, the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers and the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol – by the way, only for your information – make these black workers' chamber presidents, and in the rest of Austria they are red – mobile. By the way, they deal very carefully with the forced membership contributions because they advertise almost daily in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” or in the “Tyroler Zeitung” and ask people to place a signature under their program “Let’s show the government the red card”. [[Congratulations to Mr Loacker and Mr Vavrik]] The following point is raised: ‘With your signature you agree: For the reduction of the entry-level wage tax rate to 20 percent, this is even more so than most opposition parties demand, “For the more gentle increase in border rates FOR the peak tax rate only from 84,000 euros annual income FOR the abolition of cold progression (annual adjustment of tax rates) FOR the maintenance of the tax-advanced holiday and Christmas allowance’. In addition, there are still folders that are distributed. Now I'm wondering, How do the workers' chamber presidents of Vorarlberg and Tyrol deal with the forced contributions of their members? This is an obscurity of the people. You don't believe this anymore! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] The Government shall decide...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19062	Deputies! – You take the term back, thank you. [[Abg. Themessl: I take it back!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19089	This applies to all those who have listened: I apologise for this expression, but it is in principle an eye-removing that seeks the same thing if you do so! Three weeks ago, all SPÖ workers' chamberers and SPÖ trade union alliances and ÖVP's economic chambermen in this House agreed to a double budget, where there is no word in it as to how to see how the population is facilitated. One week after this vote, the Chamber of Labour, the Trade Union Confederation and the institutions of the Economic Union come and demand it. Who else believes that? No one's going to lose you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I must praise the Minister of State: He says clearly that he does not care, but I would now be interested in what Mrs. State Secretary Steßl says. There are two opinions in the Federal Ministry itself: A Federal Minister and a Black Secretary of State and a Red Secretary of State are sitting in the Federal Ministry. There are different opinions even in the ministry itself. [[Abg. Vavrik: Mrs Steßl has no opinion at all!]] Mrs Oberhauser! You don't have to explain to me what Herbert Kickl's model looks like, I know that – but I'd be excited about what yours looks like! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Steßl is now gone. – I don’t know, maybe it’s damage to Wolf’s “ZiB 2”, I can’t judge that, but she didn’t mention in the “ZiB 2” at Armin Wolf’s, how her tax model is supposed to look at how high the burden of millionaires is, as long as it affects whether the plants are included in the plants, because it makes a difference whether you’re handing over a three-person company, which has only three offices, or whether you’re perhaps handing over a farm that works in production and has machines and so on. - She didn't say all that. They break a rich debate here from the fence, for no other purpose than to start a debate of envy, and are unable to present a concrete model with which to deal. I'll tell you one thing: We have today tabled a proposal which would be a first step towards the demands of the Chamber of Workers, the Trade Union Confederation and the Chamber of Commerce. There will be a vote on this vote, and then I am excited how the workers' chamberers, the trade unions and the trade unions will react to it. If they reject this proposal, it clearly shows the population that this is a pure eye-catching to distract them from more important issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19147	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19168	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Well, if I look back on the list of Finance Ministers from the ÖVP, then, I have to say, there has already been someone before Maria Fekter, Mrs. Colleague, who formulated in a big speech to the nation in October 2009, the tax system of the future must relieve performance providers, have to be simple, have to be fair and have to be transparent. [[Abg. Themessl: Right, right! Bravo!]] There has since been no major tax reform that deserves these attributes. [[Abg. Themessl: Right!]] By the way, it was Josef Pröll, I have to add that. What is available in Austria, however, is the fact – and this has been true for many years and decades – that Austria is a high tax country, what the labour factor is about to do, and what the taxation of assets is a tax haven. This proves to us the figures of the statistics of international organizations. Mr President, you do not need to shake your head – you only need to look into OECD tax statistics once, then you will see it. Or look into the European Commission's last recommendation in connection with the national reform programmes: This is where the European Commission recommends a discharge of lower and medium income, yes, and a counter-financing of capital taxes, and in this context it explicitly mentions real estate taxes, for example. So there is something inside, and you have to take it seriously, because this recommendation has not been made to Austria for the first time. That was the case last year. Only that is regularly ignored by the ÖVP, as well as by the SPÖ, which always speaks of the taxation of assets and the discharge of labour, but in reality does not enforce it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You're just talking about it!]] It is therefore – and there are a number of reasons – high in time to relieve taxes on lower and medium incomes in this country, cold progression as an example. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Taxing Wages shows that the load of the average worker has increased from 47 percent to 49 percent. This also shows that taxes on work must go down, and that as quickly as possible, not only 2016, no, 2015! I therefore make the following request in this context. [[Quoted print version removed]] When I say this, however, I do not mean a tax relief, which is only financed by what Finance Minister Spindelegger calls structural reforms on the expenditure side, because if I wait for a reform of federal structures, if I wait for a reform of the administration, if I wait for a support reform, then I will wait until 2017, possibly even 2018 with this tax relief. If the Minister of Finance said yesterday in the "ZiB 2" that counter-financing by means of capital taxes was a policy of dizziness, then I would say the smooth opposite: What the Minister of Finance wants with his proposals, namely a financing and honest discharge, as he himself says, through the reforms he has proposed in 2016, is a swindling policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] This is because these measures cannot be implemented first within a short period of time, second, at best in the medium term, and third, we have been waiting for a reform of the federal structures in that country for decades. He has recently cancelled the funding reform, but the funding pyramid has actually been cut down. This is the real sluggish policy, not a counter-funding by property taxes! [[New call of the abg. Moser.]] And if you and your Minister of Finance say and the predecessors say you want a fair tax system, you want more justice in the tax system, then remember, for example, the roots of the ÖVP! Many of you may still be committed to Catholic social doctrine, and it was so to speak, of course, that one thought in categories such as wealth taxation. However, until the late 1970s it was obvious that there was a very broad political consensus in Austria, but also in the economy there was a consensus borne by economists and financial scientists, who said that wealth taxation is a fixed component of a tax and tax system. – You can and should simply not say goodbye to that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You just have to ask yourself: How does the concept of justice look? And that's where we can forget what taxes are going on, Thomas von Aquin. If we perhaps go back to Aristotle – we can look back much further into the history of philosophy – we look into his fifth book of Nikomachic ethics. There he described the principle of justice as one of the highest advantages of the character, and one should really think again in connection with a tax reform. Those who want justice cannot shut their eyes before higher taxation of assets. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This applies in particular to the financing of tax relief by an inheritance tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] And if you, Mrs Rebaur, stand out here and say that an inheritance tax would be a double taxation, then this is an unfavorable one. – The transition from wealth to the inheritance or to the one who is donated is taxed for the first time at the transition. [[Abg. Rebaurer: I didn't say anything, not to inheritance!]] Nothing will be taxed before, Mrs Colleague, take note of this! Or if you say – and leaning on Mr Kapsch from the Industrial Union – that wealth taxes would destroy jobs, then that is an unfavorable thing! [[Abg. Rebaur: Take note that I didn't say anything to the inheritance tax!]] [[Abg. Hagen: This has already been taxed ten times!]] The European Commission, like the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, says that wealth taxes are among the most growth-injurious taxes. It cannot therefore be said that these taxes are destroying jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Mrs Nachbaur, therefore, cannot vote that property taxes would endanger the location of Austria, quite the contrary! [[Abg. Hagen: This is Communism what you preach! This is a robbery of the population, of the house-keepers! That's what you preach on the housekeeper!]] A tax relief that deserves the name, because it relieves small and lower incomes, acts as a growth factor, and not what you say. I really think that's an unfavorable thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just as it is a myth to claim that the discharge of the service providers, and that is what you do, would lead almost everything automatically in the way. – I know this debate! This is an ever-increasing debate, an infinite story told by generations of conservative and liberal politicians: Everything will be fine if only the taxes for the service providers would fall. And who are the performance carriers in your eyes – not in my eyes? – In your eyes, these are the well-trained and the capable. And would only be the tax burden – let me finish telling the story! – if only the tax burden would be lower, then they would do their best and just do more than they do now where the tax burden is so high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And so to speak, conservative politicians always lose this temptation to relieve, in reality, the leaders of the tops and forget to the bottoms, in the opinion that if you do, the work would run by itself and the economy would set itself in motion and flourish. [[Abg. Fat: More private, less state!]] That's really a myth! And history goes on because, of course, the state is considered to be an evil Leviathan, who always imposes too high a burden on the citizen. [[Abg. - That's right!]] And that's why this story goes on, on and on and on, and you keep calling for performance providers to pay less taxes, with the argument that they actually do the service in this country. [[New call for tender of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But then you have to explain to me one thing, Mrs Nachbaur, but also you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: How can it be that there are different rewards for the same benefits in Austria and elsewhere? Yeah, what's the reason for that? And with the myth of performance, which inhabits this entire tax reform debate on a conservative and liberal side, you actually disappear past the distribution question. But there can and will not be any tax relief in the next year or in the next year if, in one way or another, the taxation of assets will not make a substantial contribution to their financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19402	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19481	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19502	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! If Mrs Tamandl goes out of here and praises the EIA tax policy, she must go far back to history, to abolish the 62% peak tax rate. I was still in high school, which was at the end of the eighties. [[Abg. Tamandl: No, that was 1998!]] - It's back longer. I'm working on staffing, I know how high the percentages are. The abolition of the luxury tax rate on turnover tax, which was sometime in the early 1990s, and the inheritance tax have You have not abolished it, but the Constitutional Court has done a favour to you, which I also very much welcome. [[Abg. Tamandl: I didn't say that! We let her out!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] But that was not the merit of the ÖVP, you have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: We didn't reintroduce them again!]] They didn't reintroduce them again! Yeah, great, great! Now, on the other hand, we call for wealth taxes, inheritance taxes, rich taxes, millionaire taxes – creativity is not limited. Of course you can discuss at any time, which is the right tax and which meets the right people, but it has been correctly said here already, we need to look at what we are going to expect. In this Republic, citizens are already being thrown out according to all the rules of art. And now that I'm still inventing something new, I think I'm missing. We must also look at the pace at which government revenue grows. In the last ten years, wage tax revenue has increased by more than half, sales tax revenue by more than 40 percent, and during this period inflation is somewhere at 23 percent. – So the state has no revenue problem, the revenue is gratifying! Every Minister of Finance can be pleased, because the money comes only for this reason. The only question is what we spend the money for. It has already been said: The grants to the social security pension system and to the civil servants' pensions are now devouring 24 percent of the total. Until the end of this legislative period, which you, I fear, will survive, it will be 28 percent if you believe your beautiful numbers. That is to say, an increasing proportion of the money that flows in must be spent on things that we have already promised to the citizens, where nothing can be done. This means that the scope for action is removed where political freedom of expression and scope would be necessary. The total cost of the Republic's payments to these two pension funds, namely ASVG pensions and civil servants' pensions, will only rise by one fifth in this legislative period if you can believe your optimistic assumptions. That is, no matter what the Federal Government now decides to do, with no wealth tax, no inheritance tax, no wealth tax and no other creative method of expressing the lemon taxpayers, this expenditure hole will be stopped. In this legislative period alone, the increase in expenditure in the two pension areas will amount to €4 billion. None of the concepts presented for wealth, wealth or other taxes brings together the volume of €4 billion; none of these tax ideas, even if they are more concrete than those of State Secretary Steßl. Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig has already said that recommendations from the EU Commission and OECD should be taken into account. - Yeah, that's what we're saying. It belongs to the women's retirement age raised early. It belongs to the retirement age linked to life expectancy. These are examples of how to slow down expenditure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We have presented a concept of how to slow down expenditure in their growth. EcoAustria did this for us. If you put it into practice, you can already allow a tax reduction of €3.5 billion in 2015 without making additional debts and without adding to the Austrian taxpayers. Such access, however, does not occur in the thinking of the government parties at all. There the lemon, called tax-paying citizens, is more expressed until no longer going. But I'll tell you one thing: That's not necessary. The lemon's already mad.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19584	Next item is the report by Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19605	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watcher at home in front of the televisions! I don't know how to feel, but it's like: We're always talking about the same thing, but it's not gonna work! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you would once move outside with people, then you knew that the Austrian house builder is sweating now, for example, but not because of the current tropical temperatures, but because of the incredible tax burden he has to vote on. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Unfortunately, it is a fact – also for you, Mrs. Moser – that at the moment there is relatively little left for the building stock exchange for the construction site. And whoever can't do something himself or lay hands on the construction site will have a problem with a home in the future, he won't be able to afford it. It wasn't always like that. Let's think back! When my parents built in the 1970s, in the 1980s, it was so that a family house cost about 1.5 million schilling – in old currency. Houses that cost 5 million schilling at the time, we called children, when we talked about them, villas. That was our perception. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] – Mrs Moser, you have the opportunity to come to the speaker’s desk afterwards, you don’t always have to talk in between, even if you are a teacher! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Today, only the raw construction costs €100 000. A density concrete cellar is not below 50 000 € to get. [[Abg. Moser: Talk about taxes – and not building houses!]] And if you don't live in the Pampas right now, you also have to put down a nice sum for the building ground. But there's not a house there for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. There's no house on the grounds for a long time. All in all, you can count for a home with €300 000 upward. That's 4 million schilling! That's what I'm asking: Who can afford this today? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] Which average earner can afford a house or an apartment? Who can afford it? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If someone takes a loan and owes himself up to the end of his life – provided that he gets a credit from the bank at all – the train has already left anyway. In the past, a skilled worker or a teacher had the opportunity to To realize home for himself and his family, to buy an apartment, has gone on vacation, and the woman could afford to be at home with the children and, I say, to take over child rearing or child care. Today, all this – I don't know what we're talking about – is no longer realistic. Look at reality, talk to people outside! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have an entrance tax rate of 36,5 percent and all the time we're talking about finally having to lower it. Only: It's nothing! Let's cut the entrance tax rate, as our clubwoman Dr. Nachbaur said, to 21.5 percent and thus relieve the working population in this country! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The people in this country can still work so hard, it remains below the line too little net of gross. We must finally reduce taxes and air people to breath! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's our responsibility. We can not only talk and speak beautifully, but at last have to do something, act. Red, black, all together, please. This is our responsibility as a politician. What do you think, why do many people now pay for the craftsman, the electrician, the tile army black and swirl so the shadow economy? – Not because they want to do so, but because they cannot afford an official bill at all. That's reality. The well - meaning “handicraft bonus” is very beautiful, but it does not make the herb fat either. We must fight the disease and not the symptoms! Mr Fuchs of the FPÖ has already said it right today: With the new budget, the double budget we have decided, wage taxes are for the first time higher than revenue from the VAT. De facto we live on the substance. We live on the substance! The economy as a source of income for the state is in second place, which must be broken once on the tongue. That's where you're going to sweat. When I think about it alone, I not only get hot because of the temperatures, but I start sweating. This is what the current policy is, and we are going in this direction at the moment. And if we do not counter it and do not finally stop talking, but finally decide on concrete measures, we will have a problem in the longer term! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19715	Next word: Mr Delegate Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19736	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Ertlschweiger, thank you for your reference in the context of Her speech is that the villas of the rich were at the time at about 4 million schilling; today it is still below 1 million €. That means we can't meet the small house builder at 1 million €, because, as you say, it can't afford it. It is therefore questionable how this front of opponents in this area then exists. I am grateful for the fact that Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur is now in the hall. I know, at the last National Council elections, each has 20th each. Elector/elector elected a billionaire. These people might have hoped that because of the career of the top candidate, not white opportunism and self-interest behind it, they expect something to change. But the proposals you make do not mean any change. At the last meeting, you came here and wanted to think that I had an anti-female position. [[Abg. That's what hit you!]] Today, however, You have a urgent request with tax rates, which for you – MEPs' arbitrators has predicted it, but you were not in the hall – for your reference as a club woman means a discharge of €22,100, while the average income referee, the referee of a median income of €2 400 gross a year was just €1 760. That is, you sign up as a clubwoman and go out here first, when it comes to saving yourself more of the wage tax per month than you give to the agent of a median income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] And that in the case of the sheath between the incomes of women and men, which grows each year. It is true that 75 percent of all women have income below median income. That means you want to believe these women that they don't get up to €1200 at all, at twice as high a reference, namely €2 400 gross, just €143 per month. But you’re loosely presenting a model, raising the bag large and then inserting 22 100 € for your own income area. – How can one make such a policy? I don't understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Let us not in this country, the elite, but at last make sure to see its own advantage on a permanent basis! And then, I have to say that to the opposition, a Bruno Rossman is right in his argument, absolutely right. Unfortunately, in our country there is not the propriety to be found in America, where the millionaires come together and say: This inequality of society is no longer possible, we want to give out essential elements of our assets, otherwise our model will break down at the end! You should not, therefore, come up with such proposals, including those that are not camouflaged in urgent questions, but rather consider how you can support us, you can also do persuasion work with the coalition partner in order to make the tax reduction, make it as early as possible and not move it on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day! Help us when it comes to introducing even half a percent, 1 percent wealth tax! As an example, let's take 1 percent with 1 million €, how little is that then with a net assets of 2 million €? – Of course, there are people in Austria who may have to transfer 80 000 or 100 000, but for them 100 000 € are much easier to spend than for our spectators the money for today’s afternoon shopping, which is already difficult to pay in the supermarket 100 €. [[Abg. Reborn: This is only the beginning!]] That is why I ask you to have a course correction. Turn it around, support us, and if we have a majority here, we can make the structural reform! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Part Two: Register case; it also came from your side. Take an example at BAUfair! the Chamber of Commerce. The collection has realized that it is damaging to the defence of black sheep in the market economy and its own businesses. And so, together with the trade union as the social partners, we said: We want a strict persecution of those who make something black, because it means a disturbance to the market economy if a company makes something black and the competitor no longer gets the job! – This applies to everyone else. The better we take care of order – no tax evasion, no tolerance to those who do it – the more we strengthen the market economy and strengthen those companies that honestly tax. This is an opportunity that we should not miss, because we could give this money back best! Additional labour costs: If we don't mind, we all want to reduce the additional wage costs. There are no Members here who do not want to lower them. But we must become concrete once and say how we want to do this. If we say we wait so long until we have decimated the state so that the money is available, it won't work. The last speaker in front of me addressed the pensions and said that a lot of money is going into pensions, but then he should also say where he wants to cut down – at school, right now, in that second, or at pensions? You have to say where you want to cut it down! Do you want to lock hospitals? If you want to have others, several have already mentioned this, you will have success in the medium term: Structural reforms, efficiency, may be everything, but we cannot wait for it. It was quite easy with regard to additional labour costs: If the money were not just taken from the wage sum, but like a value-added levy, we could reduce the DB, a service provider's contribution to the family compensation fund, from 4.5 percent to 3 percent. It would then also have to pay a contribution to every landlord who makes a good profit – why not? His wife also receives children's allowance and his children's family allowance. Every farm could also make a contribution, because of course the children of farmers also receive study aid and free schoolbooks. I would ask you to think about it because all six political groups could support such reforms. I would like it to be because it would really be good for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19815	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. May. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19836	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear taxpayers, dear taxpayers! We read in the government programme that there should be a tax reform, even more so, we read that there should be a re-codification. What does that mean? – This means a reorganisation of income taxes. From this point I have hardly heard anything in today's debate. Taxation is not self-interest, taxes serve a larger whole. And what's the bigger goal we've made? – No new debt, a balanced budget, therefore expenditure reforms to create a margin for tax reform and to reduce the tax rate on a sustainable basis. The opposition, but also the SPÖ demand tax reforms at the same time and immediately. What can you understand? – If we do not debate a tax-structural reform, this can be a maximum tax-tariff reform and a counter-financing by new taxes. With new taxes, however, we certainly do not achieve a goal: We will certainly not reduce the tax rate, but we will increase the redistribution. What are we going to do with the redistribution? There we are already world champions. That is, we have no further need for that. Therefore, the aim is to reform the tax structure and not to reform the tax system. What can such a thing look like? – An example: We could imagine introducing an entrepreneurship tax to tax profits on companies. We do not need five different types of winnings, we do not need seven types of income, each with different exceptions, but we want to have a common profit achievement and then tax the profit with a low tax rate, regardless of the legal form, because if the money remains in the company, we encourage investment, we create jobs, and thus we encourage the tax system again. In addition, of course, there must be a private tax system where income tax is taxed on labour, but also on revenue. There will then be no more class struggles, because this will be treated equally, regardless of whether you are a businessman or an employee, because the money available for personal use will be treated equally. With such a tax-structural reform we can also set accents, accents for the family, accents for economic growth, for housing promotion, but also for care, we could set accents. All these proposals and many others are discussed by our experts, negotiated with us, and we can then say what we want to make our tax system look like in the future. We have the historic chance. All of us Members, everyone sitting here in the hall, want a tax reform. Let's discuss her! Let's create a new Codification of the right of income tax, and we do not want to do so quickly, because anyone who calls for it today immediately makes a tax reform, with time ahead of content. That is why we cannot say that we need a tax reform immediately, but we need to work it out accordingly. And we want a tax structural reform, not tax reform. A few more words on property tax: When I joined my profession as a young tax advisor, I was allowed to make the wealth taxes. It was an extremely complicated system, and it was at least as much work as the company's income taxes to calculate. That is, from our objective of simplifying the administration, we are far away from more civility. However, an asset tax always means that it must be a self-calculation tax. That is, the citizen himself is responsible for knowing when he is crossing a border, so that he falls below it. And I don't understand that there's a lot of people saying: Okay, that's reasonable for every citizen! In the case of small things, we have the problem again and again, that it means here: No, the small citizen is a consumer, we must protect it! – Where will it be protected in this tax form of state? That is, if a mistake is made here, and the mistake is immanent in this system, the way to the Financial Penal Code is relatively fast. This means that each individual will need a tax advisor to calculate when to pay property tax. I do not think that can be the aim of this reform. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haubner.]] I conclude with a quote: If you want the economy to be bad, the asset tax is a good idea. – quote Androsch in a edition of the ForMAT in 2007. [[Complementary of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] I therefore call for a tax reform to be made in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19918	Next word: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e19940	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I have listened very attentively to the Minister for Finance today and I am able to follow and understand many of the objectives he has addressed. But I have to say quite honestly, I see the will, but I am unfortunately lacking faith. As regards social democracy and its arguments, I can only say one thing: The example of France shows that with class struggle an economy cannot be renovated. The French people recently showed the Social Democrats not only the yellow but also the red card at the EU election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is for us politicians, I believe, first priority to ensure that people remain more money in their pockets, that they have more gross for net to cover the costs of daily needs in order to be able to lead an independent life and not to be dependent on transfers. A large part of our population is currently dependent on transfers, and we should do so urgently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have been calling for extensive structural reforms for years. We demand that the state structures be intervened, that you think about it – and not just think about it, but that you act – where you can make the state slimmer. From this point of view, I have mentioned some examples abroad. I referred to the examples Sweden, Denmark et cetera, but again and again we were more or less smiled, and it was just said: It's not possible! Time has passed and time has passed, and now we are facing the dilemma that we want a tax reform that is almost unfinancing in the short term. Therefore, I can only appeal to all government representatives to enter the structural reform as soon as possible: We need to make the state slimmer! Mr Vice-Chancellor is right when he says that the middle class must have more money in the bag again, and work must pay off again. There is nothing wrong with this. But social expenditure must also be reduced, and we also need to radically reform the administrative sector in these areas and, accordingly, reduce it. There are countless proposals that we have already heard, from the Court of Auditors, from the Austrian Convention – long ago, nothing happened at last. And then, from Social Democracy, the Mar comes from counter-financing. Finally, I would like to see a concept in which we can see wealth tax as a counter-model of income and wages tax. So far, one hears only that there are so many empires, about 80,000. It is only interesting that her former Finance Minister Lacina has already abolished the remaining property taxes in 1995 because the introduction was so complicated and at the end of the day so little came out of it. Even now, it can be assumed that approximately 20 to 30 percent are required only on administration. It is not reasonable for a population to return more or less money for the administrative bacon. A substance tax is to be rejected in principle, because the difference between the USA and Canada is as follows: States have relatively low income taxes, so that people can create wealth, and with these assets they can also pay a capital tax. The Austrian assets – if there are the Austrian assets – have long so bunked their money that there will probably be nothing to get, because it is either in foundations – and the foundations do not want to attack – or it is otherwise deposited. But how does that work? The cash assets are already taxed by the Kest. And then there are the low interest rates and inflation. We already have a property tax alone in the form of the Kest at the Hasten-Zinsen. The real estate? – Yes, farmers will be happy if they have to pay even more basic taxes. At the house-keepers, the house-owners, you said you wanted to introduce 1 million free borders. How do you want to find out? Do you want to go to the houses at the real estate and write down the pictures, the chains et cetera? - Yeah, but where do you want to get it? [[Abg. Krainer: Please!]] I have not yet seen a concrete concept. Then there is the fact that the whole thing is to be done on the basis of self-assessment. That's what I'm looking at, how people put up their own wealth! Finally, and this has already been said by previous speakers, a property tax will again only hit the middle class and the small house builders and finally those who pay rents because all basic tax increases will be put to the rents. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: It's 1 million euros, not Lire!]] Professor Krainer, I know you're so hot. But I'm just saying, Go to France! Look If you take up the practice of socialist economic policy there, then, I hope, you will finally be healed from it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only say one thing: Mr Spindelegger referred to the government programme and pointed to structural reforms. I can only recommend that the government does not prevent anyone from responding to the structures. In all cases, the opposition will be accompanied by reasonable proposals. But I expect the relevant proposals to be made!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20022	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20043	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Matthias Strolz already betrayed it in the early morning, I would like to congratulate the ÖVP: On Sunday, ÖVP had the anniversary of 10,000 days in the government, that is, today it is 10 004 days, 27 years, 4 months and 22 days since 21. January 1987. [[Abg. Prince: Good days for Austria!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For more than 10 000 days, you have been setting up the Minister of Economic Affairs and, for 4 122 days, the Minister of Finance, since 11. ==References== The result is that we have always had the highest tax and tax rate. As far as the tax and tax rate is concerned, we have now also overtaken Sweden. We know that the jungle flourishes in Austria. We know that federalism is a permanent barrier, not only in the financial compensatory negotiations, but also in any efforts to reform, which are to be driven from the opposition, from the high house or from the government. We also know – and I would like to address what Mrs Tamandel, who unfortunately is not in the room, said – that the tax reforms that have taken place in recent decades have only had very short-term effects. The reason for this – you can also read it in newspapers, there are beautiful graphics for it – is of course what has been mentioned many times today, namely the problem of cold progression. So this is the state of affairs after more than 10,000 days of ÖVP in the government. Mr Vice-Chancellor said today that we must be more ambitious in the reform of pensions: We must finally see that people in Austria work longer. It can't be that they retire at the age of 58 – it doesn't work out. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka has also mentioned this. Amazingly, he has not done this today within our current hour, but then on the subject of tax reform he has very probably pointed out that we have a very real point, we NEOS, when we look at the need for more ambitious action here. We also know – assumptions stand in the room – and this also shows the well-known letter to Commissioner Kallas that it will be very difficult to put it in a cautious fashion to actually keep the budget path that is to be taken. That is, what we have here is a consensus in the House about the problem – that is also heard from the previous speakers: Taxation is simply too high, people can hardly afford to live, and growth is massively threatened. This tax and tax ratio is so high that it is of course massively anti-growth, and the pressure or incentive to escape into the shadow economy is increasing. In the direction of problem awareness and the question: Have I recognized the problem?, I must say quite great work also after these 10 004 days; and of course also great performance here from the SPÖ. But what about the solution competence? – Unfortunately, it is not enough, and I hope that even citizens, taxpayers and, above all, voters will not be able to recognise the problem. You have also addressed the problem in the election campaign. Yesterday and yesterday we just looked at some of the ÖVP's election posters from Hetz in the last decades: They always promise that the taxes will be reduced on each individual election poster. They have also promised that the economy will be unleashed. My colleagues, Loacker and Hable, have already pointed out that you will have another one before the 29. In September, the taxes were reduced. And first of all, you have introduced the taxes on sect and so on, and we know a load package of €5 billion. [[Abg. Hibart: Promise, broken!]] The problem is also – and that has been said by Mr Klubobmann Lopatka – one has to deal with it now. We now have two commissions – if one no longer knows, one creates a working group – a task deregulation committee and a tax reform commission. That's good, that's right. We are at our disposal for constructive cooperation, but, and this is the unfortunate thing, we as NEOS, and I fear, even the electorate, that the Federal Government and also the ÖVP, which has been in the government for 10 004 days, are talking about this solution competence. One reason for this is the federal states. This is also what Mr Klubobmann Lopatka has mentioned, and we will have to talk to the federal states. And there I am on the subject of real constitution and no longer on the federal constitution. That is why we know what the problem is. And I see that the structural reforms that are so urgently needed in Austria will fail because you cannot change the structures in your own parties either. Thank you. .. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20108	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20129	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have two discussions, which are interwoven, but which we must look at independently of each other. One discussion concerns the question of the tax structure, i.e. how we tax capital, assets, income and consumption, and the other question is: What is the overall tax and tax rate? These are two debates that both can be held, but they are being mixed here in a way that is not really permissible. On the first question of the level of the tax rate: What does that depend on? – First and foremost, it does not depend so much on ideology, but it depends on what tasks the state has or what tasks one governs stately and thus collectively in a society. Of course, countries such as the USA or partly Switzerland will always have a lower tax and tax rate when essential parts of the health system, pension system are privatized, because they do not count. This does not mean that it is cheaper for the individual, but it is not included in the tax and tax rate. In other words, the crucial question for the level of taxes and levies is: What tasks do I handle stately or collectively and which private ones? – One has to look at that, and that is a debate that can be held. But that's probably the decisive thing. The second is: How efficiently does the state work? If I have inefficiencies, then it will probably be more expensive than it is necessary, and I am particularly efficient, then it is probably a little cheaper. These are the two main issues which determine the level of taxation and taxation. Now you can discuss whether the state always works efficiently: In many areas, certainly not. That is not an ideological question at all, but a relatively pragmatic question. We only need to look at how much money we spend on education and compare by educational tests, whether they are called PISA or whatever they are, whether we are particularly good or medium-sized. Although we spend a lot, a lot of money, or relatively much, compared to other societies, the results are medium-sized, not bad, but medium-sized and not quite good. That is to say, we are obviously not particularly efficient. Then one can see why we are not efficient, and I believe that one of the main reasons is that we have this early selection at the age of ten. This is not the case with other political groups, but it is a question of efficiency. Another example is family policy. We are at the top of the world as far as the monetary benefits are concerned, and we are not particularly good at the question of how many children are born in relation to wishful children. That is to say, obviously we do not spend the money in a targeted way, or at least we achieve the objectives worse than other companies that provide less money and more infrastructure, or where father participation is higher. I think you can discuss this relatively soberly and not ideologically. But when it comes to the question of how high the total tax burden is, first and foremost, the question which tasks I would like to regulate at all. The other question is the question of the tax structure. That is, if you look at three major areas, namely capital and property taxes, labour taxes, social security contributions, wage and income tax, and taxes and taxes on consumption – these are the three large groups – then in Austria we see that we have very, very high taxes on labour, on consumption in about the average, but on wealth and capital very, very low taxes. That is, this tax structure debate, which we must hold. There you have to say quite pragmatically without any ideology: Yes, taxes and taxes on work are simply too high, also in international comparison, and on assets and capital in international comparison far too low and much lower than in all other countries. In other words, if we want a balanced tax, we must reduce taxes and taxes on labour and increase it to wealth and capital in relation. This is not an ideological question, that is quite pragmatic, otherwise not OECD, IMF, European Commission, any international organisation, but also national and WIFO Fiscal Councils would say quite exactly the same, which you can all use, namely: Finally, please lower taxes and taxes on labour and increase them to capital and wealth! Once we take this first step, which, I believe, is necessary, then we can discuss it very pragmatically, what we are doing in the field of taxation in the field of work. I am pleased that in the meantime all political groups are supporting the SPÖ model, which is the reduction of the tax rate to 25 percent and a more flattened progression process. Not all political groups in the House yet support the other side, such as the asset side, which also uses the capital side to make a fairer contribution to the international comparison. As our proposal is an inheritance and gift tax for millions of heirs, our proposal is a property tax as in Switzerland. All the problems that are seen here, as is the case in practice, are nothing new. Just look into the neighbouring country, they solve it every year. The problems you may see today are much smaller in practice. In the last five years, we have also introduced and increased a number of taxes and taxes in the field of wealth and capital, but we are still in the final light of this. There are still steps to be taken here. If someone has a different proposal on how to make a fairer contribution to capital and assets so that we can reduce taxes and taxes on work, we are happy to be ready to talk. We do not insist that our models are implemented 1:1. We are concerned with the need to relocate the tax structure, regardless of the height. We can also debate the level, but we need to talk about the tasks of the State and the efficiency of the State. That's the one question. The other is the tax structure, and in Austria we really need to catch up. I am pleased that there is at least one agreement on the reduction of taxes and taxes on work. There is no agreement on how we can make a fairer contribution to capital and assets and how we solve this. [[Abg. Themessl: Your head of state Voves has explained that everything is already in the drawer!]] There is now the tax reform group, and I am looking forward to finding a very pragmatic solution here so that we can also solve our tax structure problems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20174	Next word: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20195	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have now listened with great interest to Mr Krainer's speech, and from the principle one has to say that the analysis is not far apart, that the coalition should achieve something. The conclusions then make it more differentiated, and I see a laborious path ahead of us. We agree that we have one of the highest tax rates. We agree that our state can afford a lot of money. We agree that we like to keep our social security strong that we invest in training that we want to create security. We agree that all of this is only possible if we afford it and do not owe it. We all know that we have to get through with less money, because part of our current budget is built on debt, and that will have an end. So this debt cover forces us to act, and that's an exciting story now. Just calling for more money instead of making debts, even more burdening powerful citizens, will not work. Alternative? – The very first thing will be what every person does in his private life: We must use our money more firmly, work more effectively, and check whether our Community apparatus is still working. The Federal Republic of Germany, the Länder, the Communities and the European Union must be re-adjusted. It doesn't make any sense: Even if we believe that it is all good – as it is, it is no longer to pay, and therefore we will seriously consider structural reforms. But there are the differences: When I say “structural reform”, I am thinking of structures in administration, structures in the organization of our public life, in social security schemes. When Mr Krainer says “structure”, he means the tax recovery structure, which can only be the second step. If we have arranged our fields of work, we will see where to finance. If we do not first devote ourselves to the question of structural reform, we will always find out and not really find out. I can say this with a certain degree of resistance and also with a firmness and persistence, because in recent years we in agriculture have been heavily forced by the changeover to the European agricultural policy to test our structures in consulting, in the ministry, in the countries, in the associations and associations, because the tight cash will force us to do so. [[Abg. Steinbichler: the only ones!]] We are also a model in the reform of the uniform values for other areas. We are now in the areas where we know that we will also have taxable tax bases, and this will lead to reliefs for individuals, but many will be burdened. And we know very well that our people will look very closely at what happens to the money in this country. It is also true that our contributions to the Family Allowance Fund will rise, because they are just at one level. We are the professional group in which every job is already burdened with a very high job tax, one - if you want - property tax on land and land, because we pay over the unit value of basic tax and a lot of taxes. In my district, this is about €3,000 to €4,000 per family – and that is often not even a whole job. So we in agriculture know what we are talking about, and we therefore also know how the answers are: going towards the changeover, counting on pain, then allowing industriousness and innovation and giving freedom to the economy. We must reopen ourselves in our production performance, in innovation, in what we can, in the capacity of the people, in what is in us, and we must also give freedom to those who want to do so. The tax threat is there the worst motivation there is at all. That means: First of all, reform the country, improve structures, see that every euro is spent well! The transparency database is the first; everyone who wants this country to work must see that it works quickly so that we can draw the right conclusions as well. [[Abg. Wenninger: (demonstrativ acclaiming) Bravo, Hermann!]] And if anyone else wants to ask a question – to the SPÖ colleagues – if someone comes to agriculture and wants to talk about property taxes, then I can only say: Thank you, we already donated!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20271	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20293	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fuchs has said it quite clearly and unmistakably today: We have “no revenue problem, () we have an expenditure problem”. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Vavrik.]] As never before, the level of wage tax revenue has already reached almost the level of VAT revenue in the previous year. A total of €76.37 billion in taxes was taken from January 2013 to December 2013. This is 4.5 percent more than in the previous year, and almost 4.5% more revenue is due only to the cold progression in wage tax. If you count this on the 2014 tax revenue, then even more strains of the labour factor are in view: Undetermined tax increases due to the cold progression of around €5 billion will come to the people. We just pay too much taxes: 45.2 percent tax rate, place 5 in the EU. And in expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, this federal government firmly refuses to take up structural reforms that could help to counter tax reform. 51 percent of the expenditure ratio – this is really nothing you could be proud of in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only thing that the SPÖ comes into play is property taxes, inheritance tax, gift tax – new taxes, you know! On the one hand, you want to save €500 million in the discretionary expenditure of the Ministries, and on the other hand, take away €3 billion from the citizens through the cold progression of wage tax. – That’s all the SPÖ comes in. People urgently need tax relief. For the first time this year, the wage tax will overtake the VAT as the most important source of revenue in the state. The social contributions are almost as high as the two highest income taxes, together with 47 billion euros. And as if that were not enough to burden people in this country, the price of inflation will also become an ever-increasing problem for the Austrians. Together with Romania, Austria has the highest inflation rate in the EU. We see this only at the food basket in Vienna from February 2013 to February 2014: 8.1 percent inflation in the food basket. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This is what people have to deal with. By the way – for comparison –: In Berlin, in Germany, this was 1.2 percent in the food basket during the same period. In February, this was 24.6 percent more expensive in Vienna than in Berlin. Ten years ago it was still so that the Germans jealously looked at Austria and asked how we were doing this; this time is over for a long time. Talk to the people, ladies and gentlemen, but talk to the right ones, not your proporzors or top politicians! [[Call the ÖVP:Na, na, na!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] Talk to the average earner, Mr. Mayor Rädler, talk to one of the 400,000 unemployed, talk to a part-time worker, talk to a single mother! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Go out, ask the people how much remains in the wallet at the end of the month! That's where you get the right answers, but you don't want to know, because you're not affected, and your clients are well cared for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So stop, ladies and gentlemen, with your lip confessions that you want a tax relief anyway! Voices Go to our FPÖ request! Let's reduce the income tax rate to 25 percent! This helps those who really need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20369	As the last speaker to speak, Mrs Mlinar is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20398	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! [[Abg. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come]] We have heard the analysis now, and I have heard with great joy that the coalition partners obviously agree. [[Abg. Lopatka: Farewell speech!]] – Yes, Mr Lopatka, you have done this quite properly; after that, you are going to get rid of me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] However, I can do the following before: As we have noted, Austria is a high tax country - as Mr Finanzminister has said - and this has been said by Mr Schultes, Mr Kai Jan Krainer - and we are also in the forefront of the European Union. This was equally noted in the analysis, only the recipes to combat this situation are obviously different, since you are in the coalition disagreement. And we are concerned because we all know that just as the situation is, entrepreneurship is neither fuelled nor burdened by citizens. However, it is generally stated – and I agree with Mr Krainer – that the EU is a high tax zone. It is about making up the role and tasks of the State and what is being handled efficiently and what may not be so efficiently. When we compare the EU with Japan and the USA, we are 40 percent clear about Japan, where the tax rate is around 27 percent, and the USA – we are still in the distance – where it is 25 percent. Our tax rate has been increasing since the 1970s, and it is, as we note, not expected to reverse the trend. Colleague Fuchs of the FPÖ has put “More net of gross!” into space. – This has been and is our demand since the National Council election campaign, and this call remains true. We believe that we should finally have the courage to address the challenges in the tax and tax system actively and to provide for an Austria of entrepreneurs and, above all, a European Union of the founders, as the colleague Schultes called for. We're on your side. Our concrete proposals are on the table. Together with EcoAustria, we have clearly explained how it can succeed to reduce the tax rate by one percentage point already in the beginning of 2015. However, real structural reforms are needed – a word that has often been needed today. A real structural reform in our sense is a real pension reform and a real administrative reform, as Beate Meinl-Reisinger mentioned in her speech. They certainly have a strong partner with NEOS. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At this point, Mr. Lopata, I would like to say goodbye – very well – and thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for working together in recent months. [[Abg. Lopatka: I first noticed!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It was a short pleasure!]] – It was a short pleasure, but it was a great honor to me. However, I would also like to express the hope that I will be able to speak and answer my work here in the House of the Members of the European Parliament under the still to be decided right of speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] [[Abg. We have no right to speak in the European Parliament either!]] I ask you to put this into practice, because my intention as far as the change to Brussels and Strasbourg is concerned is, in short, that I change the service, but not the job. In this sense: This is how we see NEOS Europe's policy; Europe's policy is internal policy, and I can only say one thing: Hvala lepa and goodbye!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20515	Mrs Mlinar, on behalf of the Bureau, I would like to thank you very much for your – albeit short – phase here in this House and for the constructive cooperation and wish you every good in your new role and task. Congratulations! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20552	Mr President. High house! Representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers! Previously in my speech to the urgent one, I was so excited about the fact that I was opposed to the asset tax that I totally missed the time – I am really sorry! Now I have the chance to recapture this, and I am very pleased about that. Dear Dr. Spindelegger, you're not in the hall now, but I wanted to say that I don't really care if you answer me as a party chairman or as a finance minister, which hat you're putting on. It was very important to me to know if, when and how to reduce taxes. I have received some answers – thank you for that! We from the Stronach team say quite clearly: We are not a millionaire party, against privileges, absolutely for fairness in income, for taxation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Work has to pay for it again! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The working people in Austria have a right to live from their wages. I think that is what the Social Democrats see, and I am pleased to see it in principle. [[Call the SPÖ: Right!]] But what is to be understood is: To ensure that there is work at all in Austria to create jobs, we need entrepreneurs who invest here. Therefore, we must not drive them away, in the opposite part: We have to attract her. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: We didn't attract Mr. Stronach very well, did we?]] The upcoming wealth tax, which stands in the room, will be directed against the so-called small people for a short or long time. This much-quoted study of the University of Linz is a job study of the Chamber of Workers, and the top millionaires are not available in your tax anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] So at the end of the day, your tax model will not bring almost those revenues that you calculate pretty well. But once the asset tax is established and you have your foot in the door, I'm really worried, because this government has proved that it doesn't deal with the revenue in principle, no matter how high it is. It is to be feared if you once have your foot in the door, then you will continue to open up and the asset tax will rise: at the beginning of 0.1 percent, then it will be 0.9 percent, and who knows, perhaps also soon at 2, 3, 4, 5 percent. About a year ago, the IMF announced the horror scenario that even up to 10 percent of people's savings can be accessed. I fear that very much, and that's why I speak out against your model. The State should help or allow citizens to build up assets and not try to stop them as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Many people in Austria can no longer live on their wages, and that is why we say: Get down with the taxes, immediately abolish the cold progression! – That would be fair, dear colleagues from the left half of the empire! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That would be fair, not the red-green redistributive fantasies, they are unfair. Get rid of the cold progression! That's how to help. You are, above all, the recipients of smaller incomes, and I believe that in reality this is exactly what you want. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Finance...!]] We from the Stronach team – which I would like to say quite clearly – stand for performance justice. Social justice is simply a code word for tax increase for you. We stand for performance justice. For every person who does something – whether it is a housewife, whether it is a mother, whether it is a worker, whether it is a manager – it must pay off that he does something. Performance just has to pay again, otherwise not that much is done – that is quite logical! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Of course, one thing is very important: We need a social network for the weak in our society. But it must be understood once that this network can only be financed if the state has revenue, and in the long run it will only have it if, first, there are finally structural reforms and then, second, there are enough employers and thus work in the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] We therefore need to see that the entrepreneurs invest in Austria and not collect their money because of your threatening asset tax plans and are above all seven mountains. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[New call of the abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] That is why we say: 10 percent for companies investing in our country and even these 10 percent can pass it on to the employees. We stand for employee participation. That's what I learned from the Magna that works, that's good for all the workers. Let the workers participate in the success of the company! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Short for redistribution: It is interesting to note that in all countries that collect property taxes, neither the wealth nor income are more equally distributed – quite the contrary: The concentration of wealth is much higher there than in Austria when you look at Switzerland, the USA or Great Britain. So you want to help the small people in the left half of the empire with the wealth taxes, so to speak, but in reality you reach the very opposite. I would therefore ask you to reflect on this again. Don't argue, don't be aggressive, really look at the numbers! It doesn't work like you imagine. We want to support the small people. If you introduce the asset tax, the capital will be cut off, the economic location will be damaged, there are still fewer jobs, and we already have too many unemployed people in our country – that is really absurd! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'm sure that's not the goal, neither the green nor the red. I assume that everyone in this House wants the best for the population. There's a song I always remember – I can't play guitar, otherwise I'd play it for the social romantics –: [[Call the SPÖ:Vorsingen!]] “Full ride ahead and course on the reef.” – This is “the fool ship” by Reinhard Mey.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20720	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Fuchs, colleagues, on more income by means of an immediate reduction in the wage tax to strengthen purchasing power. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or... [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask for some peace and attention in the hall?- Oh, my God! The votes to be used bear the name “Yes” – these are the grey polls – or “No” – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fuchs, colleagues and others, to vote in favour of the 'No' vote. Please make sure you only throw one vote. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20816	The vote will end. The House's officials will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e20854	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 156; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 64, No votes: 92. This request is therefore rejected. [[See correction by President Hofer p. 266.]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl; Lauch, Loacker; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Moser, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pox, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Gift, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, refuser, winter, worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Steinacker, Strasser; Daughters, By; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21049	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution... [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take the seats!Unknown term type: "%s".? – We are still in a voting process! Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the discharge of the factor of work. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[18:31:22]] Short debate on the response 843/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21113	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Public Service with the order number 843/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Zinggl, as an applicant for the request to open the debate. As I said, the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21147	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Minister Ostermayer, I am sorry to have to bring you back to Vienna from a wellness date in Wiesen im Burgenland – Jazzfest. But we're on the side... – Well, the better! [[Federal Minister Ostermayer: I went up last night!]] We are a little confused about your parliamentary understanding and the non-answering of requests. You will now immediately justify that you are defended to the Republic and that is why you better not reveal some secrets, just as you did in the press hour, and that actually sounds very good. It is nevertheless a rather weak argument, in my opinion, because we too are committed to the Republic, and an important element of our task is control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In order to enable this control, there is, among other things, the right to questions and, above all, to receive answers, the so-called 'interpolation' right. The question for me now is whether you are actually supporting the interests of the Republic, if you refuse to answer the questions, and thus also prevent information. The reason for the unhappiness that has now appeared not only with our party but also with the other opposition groups is a number of questions about the castle theatre. But we are talking about the principle attitude, which is also your predecessor's attitude. It's been around in the Burgtheater for three years, as we know. So we've known for a long time that something isn't all around. It would probably have been a great deal to prevent damage if your predecessor and even you had given us information before or at all. It started in February 2011 with the conclusion of the so-called evaluation report on the federal theatres, i.e. the efficiency analysis. According to this efficiency analysis, this evaluation has therefore been available in the Burgtheater with a savings potential of € 12.5 million. It was also included in a catalogue of measures for the Bundestheater, which should also succeed. We have not seen this evaluation study – due to a request – or the catalogue of measures. Both of them have been denied us with the indication that they are confidential data and economic secrets. Other theatres, especially abroad, would be competitors and would possibly benefit from them. In the meantime, last summer, the report has been presented to us. I have it, packed in a parliamentary request, complete, so to put the whole 600 pages on the parliamentary homepage. No matter – at least that was my question to the Minister: What about this evaluation report is data protection, and what is economic secrecy? Why were you so afraid? – I have not received an answer to this question. The report was visible and has done no harm as much as I know. Nevertheless, I would like to point out something, and that is not irrelevant. At the same time as we received the answer that we did not get the report on economic secrets, Peter Raddatz, a well-known specialist in the theatre field, who was a consultant to Director Hartmann, took note of all the documents of the Burgtheater. Peter Raddatz is the commercial director of the Hamburger Schauspielhaus! We have now asked ourselves: How is it that actually a competitor, or at least an optional competitor – I don't know if he was already a director at the time, but at least he was listed – can get this data? Where does data protection remain, while Parliament has not received this information? We have, of course, not received an answer to this question. The reason for all the questions we ask why we do not get an answer is always that the theatre is not owned by the federal government, but owned by the holding company. Now, of course, we know that the holding of the federal government is in its possession, and we are therefore already asking ourselves: Why should we not know what we are paying for, i.e. in the interests of the taxpayer and the taxpayer? Therefore, there is also an § 13 of the Federal Theatre Organisation Act. It explicitly allows the right of information, because the members of the Supervisory Boards, the delegates of the Ministry and the Ministries have an obligation to provide information to the respective ministers and therefore the Minister and the Minister are also informed and should also pass on this information on request. You or your predecessor have always argued that information can only be provided if decisions are made by these Supervisory Boards. Okay, that's an interpretation that's very restrictive, but it's mine. We have therefore asked what decisions there were in the State Opera, in the Burgtheater, in which Volksoper had been in recent years, and – you expect it – have not received an answer. The reason: We wouldn't have asked specifically enough. The right to interact is based only on certain matters on which decisions exist, and not on such a general nature. That's right now, I'd say the fun stop! For this is a very arbitrary interpretation and claim, which is not supported by the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, nor by the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, nor by the explanations in the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, but it is an arbitrary claim by the Ministry. And above all things: How can we ask for something concrete that we don't know at all? You know – and this is obvious – all the decisions, so you have us with this knowledge when we ask for these decisions, in our opinion, to provide information as well. If you don't, you'll be making fun of the right to interact with this reason. Of course, we ask ourselves: Why do you want to deny us these information? What's the background? – Negotiating on one side [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They still promise complete clarification and disclosure of the events in the Burgtheater in January. When questions come to Parliament, they will be closed. Slowly, the suspicion is that the ministry actually knew everything for a very long time, but did not do anything. And only if you cover it and don't reveal it can this suspicion not be discouraged. In one of my last questions, Mr Minister, I also asked you how the Supervisory Board responded at a specific meeting to the statement by Burgtheater director Hartmann that the overall financial development of the Burgtheater was difficult to see for him – at that time, all the alarm bells apparently ringed at the Burgtheater. . I have not received an answer from you to this question, not even with a statement of reasons. She's just been ignored like I didn't put her. All of this already leads us to the conclusion that this entire construction of the holding – which does not come from you – serves to conceal. Because the task of holding is actually controlling. And this job didn't get hold of her, so she failed. At the same time, however, this construction also prevents our control, the control of Parliament. But I think there can be no corporate ethics in the cultural field without effective control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm not going to let go of answers to our questions. You can be sure that's what former Minister Schmied knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21208	Mrs Hakel. [[Abg. Brosz: No answer?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Moser: Where does the answer stay?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Hakel: (on the way to the speaker's desk) She'll be coming, I think! The Minister listens to everyone, then he will answer!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr Brosz, there is a form of this – there is no provision, no, it is not Usus, it has always been handled differently. [[Abg. Brosz: Not a destination, but usus!]] It is clear that the Minister will speak, and that is what he tells me now, of course. Mrs Hakel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21290	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Ostermayer is in favour of transparency and enlightenment, and he has also shown this right from the beginning at the Causa Burgtheater. Only through the rapid, quiet and transparent intervention of the Federal Minister has it been possible to bring peace back to the Burgtheater and the Drumherum. I therefore think that the opposition parties' accusations are inappropriate, because the opposition's requests are also being answered more than in detail, within the meaning of the law of interconnection. There can therefore be no mention of a wall of silence or disregard for Parliament's control rights. Only in individual cases has the Federal Minister asked for understanding against the background of ongoing procedures that no further information can be provided at the given time, since it is also a matter of keeping a financial damage away from the federal theatres. In addition, the Federal Minister has questions answered all questions which are strictly not subject to the law of inter-polation. Two things, Mr Zinggl, I already see like you: I also believe that we must, of course, discuss the tasks of holding. I would be in favour of either strengthening the holding company so that it can perform its control function better, or of considering reintegration into the ministry. There must certainly be an open discussion about this. And yes, I understand, of course, the dissatisfaction about the law of interconnection, but so are the current provisions. In autumn, we are negotiating, among other things, the abolition of official secrecy and, on the other hand, the freedom of information law. At the end of these negotiations, it should be possible for any citizen to ask questions directly. That is also good, good in the sense of transparency. That is why I also believe that the question of the right of interaction must in any case be addressed in the sense of transparency in this debate, here we need to find new solutions – in the interests of Parliament, in the interests of control and of course in the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21329	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21351	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! It is true that the law of interconnection has its limits where distributed societies exist. This is not a phenomenon of the Ministry of Culture, which we have in all the other departments, and this has always led to criticism of the Members in all debates, if ministers are in accordance with the manner. 51 Federal Constitutional Act that they cannot answer these requests in more detail. With regard to public culture, we have the cultural report, which, however, does not provide very detailed information on the events that have been affecting us for a long time. As a Member of Parliament, we also have the audit of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Minister, you have announced that you have requested an audit of the Court of Auditors. I hope that the result will come to the High House relatively quickly, then a little more light will come into this dark. Of course, it is necessary to continue to debate the right of interconnection on the whole. It is true that if we adopt a transparency law for all citizens, it cannot be said that citizens may get more information than we MEPs, since we too have to carry out our control activities here. With regard to the information you have given us in this answer, you have specified in detail what obligations the Supervisory Board has. This makes it clear which issues the Supervisory Board needs to take decisions on. We will then have to rely on this very subject, for example, when we ask for the approval of the controlling reports of the holding which are required in the decision-making situation. I hope that we will get more detailed information here in the House. I am not in favour of abolishing holding and reintegration of the federal cultural institutions such as Burgtheater, Staatsoper, Volksoper. We don't want to manage this theater, we want to manage it. That is, I am more likely to strengthen the holding company, or also to try to ensure that the holding company exercises its control powers accordingly. It must be controlled by: ling reports to be cancelled by the Supervisory Board. That's exactly what you can ask in the law of interconnection, you just have to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21393	Ladies and gentlemen! With a view to so many discussions also at the Presidential Conference, where it was discussed again and again that ministers did not speak at the end of a debate, after the speakers – and according to the founders only one speaker of each group – the Minister, of course, decided and agreed to speak now after the two speakers of the government groups, in order to give the opposition groups the opportunity to address them. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21414	Mr President. I did not want to speak directly after Mr Zinggl. I thought it might be more useful after several political groups have come up with questions – now it's a real package of responses – to report to me immediately afterwards. After consulting the President, I will do this now. I would like to address what Mr Zinggl said: On the one hand, I do it, even if I am in a concert in the evening – and I hope you did not mean this critically that I went to a concert – the next day to be in the office between half past eight and eight. So it was today, so I didn't have to interrupt a stay in meadows, but I was back in Vienna last night. On the question itself: It is my job to comply with the existing laws. On the one hand, there is the rule as to how the law of interconnection is governed in principle, and there is a special provision in the Bundestheaterorganisationsgesetz. There are also expert interpretations that make my house, that makes the constitutional service, and so I also act when it comes to answering questions. That's how I did it. In some cases, there have been very detailed questions, there have been individual questions where it was possible, and in the response to the question, which is actually the subject of today's discussion, on page 2, there has been a very detailed explanation why this question – it has been asked which issues and questions the Supervisory Board has addressed in the State Opera et cetera in 2009 – goes too far to comply with the Interpellation law and the rules in the Federal Theatre Organisation Act. I have – The explanatory statement is in the text, in the reply to the question, and this text and the explanatory statement are, in turn, from the Constitutional Service and from the relevant experts in the house. [[Abg. Zinggl: But what is the reason for this?- Oh, my God!]] I can present this now, but it would take too long. I have therefore acted in accordance with the legal regulations I have to comply with. The question of the freedom of information law is not yet a matter for me, because it has not yet been decided here. Once it has been decided, perhaps the situation is another and thus the interpretation is another. At the moment, however, I have to stick to what is valid law. Mrs Fekter has already referred to this: ==References== On the third day I took office, I asked the President of the Court of Auditors to present a request for an audit and audit by the Court of Auditors. By the way, I have taken a step that guarantees that this will also be public and, of course, available to Parliament, because the Court of Auditors reports actually exist. So, I myself have made the contribution to ensure transparency in this matter under the existing laws. The Committee also had a very detailed answer to the questions. It wasn't like anyone said: This can or will not be answered now, but the questions and questions discussed there were very detailed. I have also said there that I now see my task in doing things step by step. The first step was, as it were, to bring order to the Burgtheater, together with the institutions that have the responsibility there – that is, together with the new, interim artistic director, with the commercial director, with the supervisory councils in the Burgtheater. I am also in contact with the institutions – even though I do not know the minutes of the past – on a regular basis with the Supervisory Board this morning, after I returned from the concert at night from meadows, Mr Zinggl. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The first step was to calm down the acute situation in the Burgtheater, to put things there in order as quickly as possible. The second step is to prepare the budgets of the three theatres for the next year. There will be the respective Supervisory Board meetings next week. And the third point, which I said in committee, I can repeat here, is then the question of the structure of the Bundestheater and the structure of the holding. There are different opinions that one says: resolve completely!, the other say: in addition to the controlling tasks, strengthen the control tasks! My style is that I always try to make facts-based decisions as far as possible, so I have commissioned the relevant section to seek out offers from organization companies that are to look at the present structure, also in international comparison. And on the basis of the results of this analysis, I will then make a decision on how we proceed with holding. It is therefore necessary to make a sensible decision based on facts, which brings the structure of the Bundestheater into the most efficient form of organization possible, where it concerns the well-being of the houses, so that the well-being of the audience is also concerned. What I ask you to do now is that you understand for this procedure that you have to take the steps together, so to speak. The first case was acute treatment, now it is about preparing for the future. And for that I ask for understanding, and for that I also ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21457	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21481	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Fekter said that we do not want to manage the theatre, but rather manage it. – If we now manage the definition that citizens, represented by their representatives, no longer receive control, but pay for it if that is now the new concept of management, then I must say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – Mrs Fekter, I have listened very [[Abg. Fekter: This is the positioning of the holding! Didn't you listen?- Oh, my God!]] I have listened very well to you, and now you listen to me, then maybe you will learn something, and how to do it better in the future! It is not about the theatre, which is to be integrated into individual houses, but about holding it disappears itself. This does not mean that the houses are integrated into the ministry in any form, but this level of incontrollability has to be gone. Because if the answer to the question is that, because of the fact that a holding is stored over these companies, the actions of corporate bodies are not, in principle, covered by the right of interconnection, then it is obvious that precisely these organisations are required to prevent the investigation by Parliament. And we don't want that in the future. Nor do we want to do this – just a small sidestep, Mrs. Federal Minister for Finance Out of Service – at the Hypo, where a holding solution for the entire settlement is also envisaged. This would have the same effect, then we constantly get such answers as: This is not covered by the law of interconnection. But I come to something else: The Federal Minister at the beginning – apart from that he likes to talk to Mr. Zinggl about when he is where he is at concerts and when he is where in the early days; Mr. Zinggl is obviously interested in this also burning, and this has hopefully been really answered in the context of interpollation law – a package of questions. – I also got a packerl, since I doubt that Dr. Springer is the appropriate man to pass on the necessary reform of the Bundestheater in any form; it is a memorandum of a renowned Vienna law firm, a memorandum of 134 pages. I can only read to you at the beginning – because I also understand your situation: The Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Minister, has given this mandate. And it's also under it: We point out that the present Memorandum is a risk analysis for the client only, which must not be passed on to or disclosed to third parties, otherwise this entails significant legal disadvantages for the Republic or the Theatre Associations. . There is already reference to the Court of Auditors' raw paper. I'm not going to do anything about it now, and I'm going to say anything about it, because I understand your situation. I'm just saying, I have this pack, and you've had it since the end of April. There's a lot about Hartmann inside, I'm not saying anything at all, but I'm quoting three comments from this report because they're what I've been thinking all along, and they're medial. One of them can be found on page 35: The findings made by the Court of Auditors in the framework of its present raw material report suggest that Dr. Georg Springer has failed to comply with his obligations of proper management. - Quote. On page 92: We believe that the circumstances known in the Court of Auditors' report on the behaviour of Dr. Georg Springers are, in principle, appropriate to justify such a lack of trust. - Quote. On page 113: From the documents available to us, it appears obvious that Dr. Georg Springer, in his capacity as Managing Director of the Bundestheater-Holding GmbH, had knowledge of the situation of Burgtheater GmbH, lack of accounting, lack of IKS – i.e. internal control system – and liquidity difficulties et cetera, which the remaining members of the Supervisory Board of Burgtheater GmbH did not possess. - Quote. They're just a few scumbags. This is about the obligation to speak to the Supervisory Board; As Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Dr. Springer obviously knew more than he had informed his co-supervisory councils at the Burgtheater Supervisory Board meetings. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now I come to the point: As a result of this package, I am able to ask you a lot of questions from now on over the summer, Mr. Federal Minister, so that you will have to explain to me quite clearly, also in the context of the right of interpolation, why Mr. Dr. Springer still has the confidence – even though you already have this information since April – to form the reform of the Bundestheater together with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21523	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21544	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think we are dealing here with a fundamental problem of Austrian parliamentarianism. We will be making a request again tonight to set up a committee of inquiry. He will be rejected again. There is again a disregard for Parliament's control rights. We constantly have to do with the fact that Parliamentary questions are not answered enough that the right to interact is disregarded by the various ministries. I believe that we have a crisis in this regard, and we must note that Parliament is in crisis. If I may make this comment: I think it is time not to discuss in the Bureau whether we are pronouncing Twitter bans, but rather to discuss how we are strengthening the rights of parliamentarians here in this House – and not how we are hindering their work. I think you have to say that in principle. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Mr Minister, I particularly appreciate what your past policy activities are all about, you know that. In terms of crisis management, however, there are clearly different positions between Greens and you. It was rightly pointed out that, for example, there was clearly too little information about the function or the various errors of the Holding Chief Springer. It was also discussed that evaluation reports, which will keep us away, are made very accessible to third parties. That too can and must not be! If a theater director is sent from you documents that we would like to abstain from, then we have a clear crisis symptoms as to what Parliament's control possibilities are. It is also striking that ministries, and there you have also been personally addressed, answer a number of questions very well, that is, if it is in the interest of the ministry. For example, in the Causa Hartmann there was much more precise information on other questions. On the other hand, there has been a great deal of silence in this matter. We cannot accept this and, like other groups in the House, we will have to torment you with some questions in the future. Minister, the extension of the Burgtheater took place in 1996. That's almost 20 years ago. The result is that control has also been extended, either to journalists or to anyone, that she cannot be held here in the House anymore. The damage you suffer in the Send a question answer to the room, please, have long been created! We here are responsible for controlling and evocating why these shortcomings have arisen, and we are responsible for correcting these abuses in the House. If you're talking about a new law, if you're talking about getting a holding law here in the future, I can remind you: This holding law is being passed here in this House and, of course, we must also have relevant documents on what has been done. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that not only do we have a right to public opinion, not only do we have a right to be informed, but also the workers at the Burgtheater have a right to do so – 400 employees who have been able to listen for months to hear what is happening in the Burgtheater. I would like to remind you once again of the artist who criticized the abuses and who spoke of the unolidarian working conditions. I can remind you that there's a security company that hires the artists. We'd like to control all of this. All of this must have been discussed in the Supervisory Board, and we need to get information about all these events here. Mr Minister, it is your job to avoid damage from the various institutions – Volksoper and Staatsoper – as well. The failure to answer parliamentary questions is the opposite. They hinder a complete reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21621	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21642	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Mr. Minister! There's something lazy in the state of Denmark. – Hardly a quote from a play – that’s from “Hamlet” – fits better with the Burgtheater than this, at least at present. We have the condition of a truly absolute transparency here and we need to have the information provided in part by journalists or learn from the media. The taxpayer, who, with his money, has to cover the subsidies for holding and for the Burgtheater, for the Bundestheater et cetera, sometimes even finds out before Parliament, and I think this is an intolerable and actually unsustainable state. There's something you need to change right away. I would like to make a very simple suggestion before we discuss how a right of interaction of the future or, at all, a new law of transparency can look like. I suggest: Mr Minister, just make a proactive information from the Ministry to Parliament; and if there are news in the Burgtheater-Causa, just let us know. Nothing easier than that. With the new media, online et cetera, I think it is quite easy to make it that at least the Committee on Culture or the Chairman of the Committee on Culture is being updated on how the current state of the art is. In the media, the information situation is partly contradictory. Now, for example, the first lawyer of Director Hartmann has received an advertisement at the Bar Association because he is said to have had conflicts in the clientship and has carried out consultations that he would not have been allowed to make. There have been alleged further research by the Ministry of Finance. They're out now. It was extended because of a black-money horn in the Burgtheater and even because of a system of complete transparency and probably also a totally criminal situation. As a Parliamentary House, I think we would be truly grateful if the Minister responsible would simply come up with an update on a regular basis, which would enable us to be well informed, objectively and adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21687	Next speaker: Mrs Meinl-Reisinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21709	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the law of interconnection and the way in which you, Mr Federal Minister, deal with this right of interconnection, or what limits you set to the law of interconnection. I would like to take a step back and say why we are discussing this and why we are making this flood of questions. I think you only got a request from me last week. I'm looking forward to the answer. I mean, first of all – and that's what this Burgtheater-Causa has shown, and there are several causses that show this over and over again – about the efficient handling of tax money. It's about tax money. The second point is, we're talking about a criminal case here. This has long been known. This is about criminal offences, and it is about the prosecutor's finding in the various areas. This is obviously about tax evasion. The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed out in the Committee that it is obviously even a matter of intentional tax evasion – or likely. [[Abg. Fekter: To act!]] – Yes, it could act. That is, they are very gross accusations that stand in the room, which do not just mean a little mismanagement. In any case, it is a question of human inability. As far as it is concerned and as far as it is of relevance to labour law, the procedures will show. But it is also – and this is now the case with Parliament – about salami tactics, which are being displayed by the Federal Government, that is, by your side towards the High House and also towards the public. I would like to remind you once again how the course of this whole causa was about. First, the public learns that the former business manager Silvia Stantejsky was released without notice – even after a certain period of delay. Then there are numerous discussions about this. There are forensic reports which are not presented to the House, but which journalists have been at the table for a long time, and where, as has already been mentioned, we can only learn things about journalists. As committee chairman, I have tried to convene a meeting of the Committee on Culture at an early stage to ensure that Parliament's control rights are respected and that Parliament too is given the opportunity to take an active stand. Stantejsky's release was, so to speak, the first disc in this salami tactic. In addition, this House, also from me, was built up by colleagues in the Committee on Culture, but also by the public and then by you. It also resulted in the dismissal of the artistic director Matthias Hartmann. The question is: What further steps must be taken? Unfortunately, I do not know this legal opinion which Mr Rosenkranz has. I asked. But the point is – and that is why there has also been a press conference together with colleagues Zinggl and Rosenkranz –: Is there really the director jumper the ideal person to pull this car out of the trash now? We have massive doubts about it, and obviously not just us, but there may even be an opinion that suggests that he is not the appropriate person for it. There is a conglomerate of different people. I've already mentioned three. I would like to mention a fourth person, because she always appears in the media. This is Mr. Raddatz, who was brought to the house to support Hartmann, because, obviously, he has also told the Supervisory Board or the Director Springer, he does not look at what the business manager is doing. That's where the question arises: What did Raddatz see what the House cannot see? And above all: What did he say about the obvious activation of production costs, which may be in line with the fact that the balance sheet fraud is taking place? And: Who knew about it again? It has been pointed out that, in the course of the work on the Information Freedom Act, we must look at the right of interconnection. I think this is very massive, because it certainly cannot be that Article 52 para. 2 B-VG in the current form, as interpreted by the majority, is durable if at the same time the official secrecy is abolished. But one thing is clear: The function of the species. 52 para. 2 is also to remind the Federal Government and also the Federal Minister that this is about preserving ownership tasks, that they must carry out these ownership tasks. If this Causa has shown one, then you are not responsible for it, that your predecessor has at least failed to comply with these ownership tasks. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21745	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[19:14:08]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 168/A(E) by Dr Marcus Franz, colleagues, on "Annual valorization of the care allowance in the framework of a statutory care insurance rather than an increase in mass taxes" (158 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21776	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21803	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! From culture to care, which is also a cultural form. We see care in Austria increasingly at risk, not because we have poor caregivers and nurses. We have a system of financing, which is becoming increasingly problematic, for the reasons which have already been discussed several times. Demography et cetera. We therefore see the reason given, instead of increasing and introducing mass taxes, such as the motor insurance tax and the sect tax recently carried out, for example, a valorization of the care allowance, in a large throw, in a large step by introducing a care insurance for all Austrians, which is the first stage of a truly inclusive, combined, comprehensive Austrian health system. Finally, this would be a development in the right direction, namely that the care and health care should be considered overall, in one, as we negotiate negotiating points in one. That's a bad thing. In the meantime, the issue of aging and the increasing chronic diseases has now been formulated in such a way that the problem of aging has now opened a match between the social pots, the health pots, the health insurance companies et cetera, and from our point of view this is not acceptable in the long term, and not at all in the sense of the pedigrees and the patients. That is, from our point of view, this is the first step towards an integrated Austrian health insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21842	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21864	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Franz! We find that at your request some things are mixed from our or my point of view. Nor do I see directly the link between the withdrawal of the tax amendment law and the introduction of a care insurance scheme. This is not quite true for me if I may say so. In your motion for a resolution, you are referring to the fact that you want to introduce an Austrian health insurance scheme to be submitted to the Health Committee. I can recall this debate in the Health Committee, where it was set out that this health insurance should be designed in such a way that people should be involved in the risk as well. That is, if this health insurance may not work positively, people should also take the risk. – We clearly say that about social democracy No, we do not want to. Health must be manageable for everyone in our country. Health care needs to go beyond basic care. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] For this reason, we cannot accept this request. On the other hand, we also believe that there is a very proven system of funding in the field of care. You also know that we have taken many, many steps in recent years. I can't say anything now because I don't have enough time. I would just like to mention the care fund, which is really well-educated and with which we have guaranteed at least for the next few years a guarantee of the care system, while also ensuring that there is a demand-oriented and need-based offer in the regions, because the countries and the municipalities there have a right of participation. I think these are very important things in the field of care. They also know that the care allowance was increased in 2009, that a different increase has been made in the various stages of the various stages, and that with our Minister Hundstorfer, I am really convinced that I have a minister who takes this issue very seriously. It's not like you're writing that there's a standstill. On the contrary, I could still perform a series of actions that we have decided in recent years. Unfortunately, time is not enough. Today, for the reasons I have mentioned, we cannot agree to this request, although I know that in the field of care there must certainly be a lot of efforts to ensure it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21918	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21939	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think most of us here in the hall are of an opinion: The care money in Austria is a success story. More than 450 000 people are helped with the federal care allowance. If you now ask in your application to finance the care allowance by means of a statutory care insurance, we do not currently see the need to do so. Why? – This would significantly increase the additional wage costs again, and especially in the current economic situation we cannot all wish for that. There have been many improvements in the care sector recently – my previous speaker has already mentioned it –: the 24-hour care, the expansion of the sheltered housing, the support of caregivers and, most importantly, the introduction of the care allowance and the care part-time. This is a very important step for us, because we want to make it possible for care and work to be better compatible. Many benefits have thus been added, and all of this has been financially put on good feet, because the care fund is extended and for the next few years virtually more than € 1 billion is available. This ensures that care is assured, and I ask you not to insure anyone, so that people worry if they get necessary care. The care is secured, but you are of course right, there are great social challenges to put the care on safe legs in the long term. We are working on a structural reform. You know that the Court of Auditors has asked for this, and the lawyers have also referred to it. There are nine federal states with nine different home laws, with nine different standards, with nine different keys for caregivers. So there are even bigger tasks waiting for us, but I am sure we will also deal with them so far. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21973	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e21994	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Franz, we will not vote in favour of this request. .................................................................................................... We do not like to introduce a new insurance scheme that would only lead to a new burden. What we imagine would be a real health reform, with which care can be co-financed. That would be a right approach, and that would be better than to separate care and health care. Of course, much has to be done in the field of care. Unfortunately, there have also been deteriorations for the poorest of the poor. In 2011, access to the care allowance was made more difficult, resulting in de facto savings. This is something we rejected at the time and what we still find terrible today, because people have been saved because they really can't afford it. In the course of this whole debate, however, it must also be said that, for example, the allowances for disabled people have not been increased since 1988. Due to inflation, these people already have a loss of about 60 percent. This is actually a situation that is unbearable. There is, of course, much to do, and the Federal Minister and, of course, the entire remaining government are required accordingly. In this context, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22070	The application is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22157	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22178	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can join my colleague Königsberger-Ludwig directly. We will not agree to this request either. We have already discussed this in committee: I don't think that care insurance is the right way to finance care in the future. I'm right that this is one of the biggest challenges of the future. The care area is one that is growing constantly. We have more and more people to care for in Austria, and that must also be financed. This is a huge challenge for the countries. We discuss this, and we are also happy to get involved in all these matters, from the care that should be guaranteed at home to the question of how we can finally ensure that care in the federal states of Bregenz to Eisenstadt is the same for all those who are old and in need of care. There is an urgent need for harmonisation. To impose additional burden on the factor of work through a care insurance scheme, where we know that in Austria, the factor of work is one of the most heavily burdened, compared to all other EU countries, that does not seem to be the right way. We need to think about how this can be properly financed and how to ensure that enough money is available for this area. However, as has been said, care insurance is not, in our opinion, the right access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22214	Ladies and gentlemen, there are too few mandates in the Chamber. I am therefore interrupting the meeting briefly and hope that soon many, many hard-working mandates will arrive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22247	I'll start the interrupted session again. Many male colleagues have now arrived who have been able to escape certain other events. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 158 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The request was accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen on the annual adjustment of the allowance for care and the allowances for disabled people, a minimum pension of €1200 and a pension adjustment at the pensioner price index. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:26:44]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 366/A(E) by Mr Marcus Franz, colleagues, on the creation of consultative bodies for unsolicited pregnant women (159 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22319	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I should like to point out that there are only three speakers on this item on the agenda. First of all, Mr. Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22350	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Before: We do not want to call into question the solution of the time-limits – that is beyond dispute for us – and we do not want to criminalise a woman who is in the situation of an unwanted pregnancy. However, in Austria we have a very massive problem as regards data collection with regard to the number of abortions. There are estimates of 25 000 to 60 000, 70 000 children per year who die from abortion. I personally think this is a massive ethical problem that you have to deal with and that you have to solve. With these figures, if the high estimates are true, we may be top-ranking in the EU. The problem is: We don't have any data. There is the EU's Estrela report, which I believe you know by a large majority, in which abortion is to be qualified as a lapidar medical intervention and thus also made accessible to data collection. I think this is another problem that needs to be dealt with in an extra debate. At the moment, in Austria, abortions are happening in the dark in ordinations or mainly in institutions and no one really knows anything about them. Here there is not only an ethical problem, but also a factual problem with the birth rate, which is extremely low – in fact too low for the survival of the nation. She is an average of 1.4 children per woman. Another problem is that the consultation in Austria is not mandatory or is only carried out by the treating, intervening doctor. This is not the case in other countries, because you have to get a second medical opinion, which is absolutely useful from my point of view as a doctor, as a human being and as a father. We also did not require a period of reflection for women in which they could think calmly. I ask you not to be misunderstood. We are about support, we are about life, and we are not about the criminalisation of women. That is why we have tabled this request, and I think that one can agree because the quality of the whole situation and its discusability would be greatly improved by facts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22392	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22413	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Women are preferable to pregnancy and at the same time disadvantaged with pregnancy, the German philosopher and children's songwriter Manfred Hinrich has said. As a mother of two children, I would like to say that my pregnancies were a great gift, at the same time of course a physical burden, and in addition, of course, you have the double responsibility, namely for yourself and for the child becoming. You can't take it as a mother. The Stronach team is interested in looking at the motion for a resolution on the creation of advisory centres for unwanted pregnant women, which we are discussing here, especially for the declining birth rates. The argument is certainly one to be taken into account in the discussion, but it is not the only one, because we should already see the wholeness of the issues of becoming mothers. We all have the great responsibility in society and politics not to leave becoming mothers alone. When it comes to unwanted pregnancies, we also have the issue of all of us having to do our duty to inform young people. Parents, friends, school – no one is allowed to steal from this responsibility. The question is indeed a matter of the Family Committee. This is the right place to discuss this. It is not, unlike the applicants, an isolated social policy question to be discussed. It is important to create a climate in which pregnant women can be protected and protected by motherhood. It is a classical cross-sectional matter of family policy. In this context, we should discuss the following questions: comprehensive pregnancy advice, a period of thought prior to pregnancy and the information on adoption or care. In Germany, there are very many detailed regulations on this subject. There are not only rudimentary regulations there, both in total and in relation to abortion. I am looking forward to the fact that the Family Committee will devote itself to this important issue, in particular this particular phase for mother and child, and I would ask you to agree to the allocation to the Family Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22457	Next speaker: Mrs Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22478	Mr President. This is a very, very sensitive issue, Mr President. It's about abortion. It is true that it is a subject that we should talk about a lot more often, but I think it is very cynical in relation to your request and with what is formulated in the text of the application, to address it in the context of death aid. It is actually totally inadequate and certainly not my access to a connection in any form. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We should talk a lot more about it, including what approaches help. I am not of the opinion that a statistics would be the solution to remedy the We actually have high numbers of abortions. We don't need any more advisory services either. There are very, very many advisory bodies throughout Austria, but they have the problem, in particular, that they are not adequately assured that they are not sufficiently funded. They must again apply for subsidies every year, and it is not ensured that for women and young girls there is real access to advice. There is also a lack of education in Austria. In schools, this area is also not so far available that one could say that it is comprehensively guaranteed that young people and children can be clarified in a familiar and protected framework and can talk about problems, about sexuality. What's missing: Nowhere in Europe are contraceptions as expensive as in Austria. We should also talk about it. We have already applied several times for it and have sometimes only reaped laughter. We should talk about how we can make contraceptives available, especially for people – for women and also young men – who cannot afford it, and that they can also get them and have access. These are the things we should focus on. To put that in any context, as you do, I do not think it is particularly serious.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22529	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 159 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I grant the request 366/A(E) to the Family Committee. [[19:35:07]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 71/A by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on a Federal Act establishing the Federal Law of 14 December 1989 (OJ L 353, 30.12.1989, p. ==References====External links==* Official website No. 22/1974, amended (160 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22585	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Worm, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22612	Mr President. Minister! This request concerns a change to § 107 of the Labour Constitution Act. I explain very briefly, this is a very special topic: It has changed a lot in Europe in recent years. There's an open market. There are a lot of big corporations. And it has become commonplace that these large companies are founding subsidiaries in different countries and that they employ more or less of their own employees than managing directors. We then have the problem under labour law that, although de facto a managing director is registered in the trade register, this one does not really have the full availability. the company, but is more or less responsible. If this employee is then terminated or discontinued, he has no right, as it were, as an employee, to challenge this termination or dismissal, or this is very difficult. Mr Minister, you're right, I've only been there for seven months, but I'm really looking into it. You said last time that the Oberlandesgericht would therefore always decide for the employee. I'm allowed to correct this, because I asked myself: The last decisions have always been made in de facto in accordance with this § 107, and always to the disfavors of these workers or “Pseudo Managing Directors”. These were mainly very many employees outside of the 50, and the companies or companies were therefore released in a very elegant way. I would consider the amendment of this § 107 to be very useful and ask you for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22651	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22673	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The problem lies less in § 107 than in § 36, and the Labour Constitution Act differs for good reason between the protection needs and the areas in which the protection needs are not present. In our view, where employers' interests prevail, this need for protection is not so given. I am absolutely of your opinion that the working world has changed, but it is also not clear about the case law in this area. There are certainly cases where reference is made to this, and if the actual management does not exist, these employees will be seen as employees. These cases are the same. [[Abg. Peter Worm:...! No, I checked!]] And that's why I'm saying: I think our problem is – and here I am with you – that in § 36 we should define the exceptions more clearly. I am in favour of a very strict interpretation of the executive. It should be possible, however. The second issue we are constantly fighting with is fair contractual clauses. Today, if you send home a Bundesligatrainer with a three-year contract after two years in full terms, no one will see an increased need for protection. It's always about how the contract is designed. And here I am with you: There's often a lack of opportunities. There are often contracts that do not give what we would expect. If someone takes a stay abroad, then he is the managing director there, but then he is sent home, then this must also be credited accordingly. We should place much more importance on this. Let's see that we're bringing together bad contract clauses, then, I think, we've achieved something for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22710	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22732	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens believe that the problem presented in the explanatory statement of this request is quite one that we should take seriously. We'll see you too. not one of the reasons why the description of the function, the title of the senior employee or executive manager should in these cases bring a disadvantage. That is why we support this concern. This has, as it were, been misunderstandingd by the Committee. We believe that we have agreed to the proposal, and we will now also express it. I find the argument of the SPÖ interesting. I do not mean that it is enough to say that we leave that to the Judicture. I believe that the laws should be clear, even on this question, although we also believe that it may not be the ideal way to express it. The suggestion would perhaps be to try to make a motion for a resolution in this direction. Then we leave the formula to the government parties, but we can express the will. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22768	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22789	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! I should also like to take a short look at this item on the agenda and, in a sense, to do the same, as Mr Vogl has already said. Of course it's a problem. Mr Wurm has also said in his speech that it is a very special problem which, of course, is a specific and not so common in the case of the case. The case law, which the Federal Minister has already said in the Committee, is not quite clear. I am also of the opinion, and this has been done by Mr Vogl, we need to see in general how such management contracts are designed and what clauses are involved. You have to look at that. If this is still the subject, you can of course look at it accordingly. But at the moment, we are more of the opinion that there is no concrete need for action here and will also reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22823	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 160 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:41:58]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 308/A(E) by Mr Mag. Roman Haider, colleagues and colleagues on “No social security contributions to drinking funds!” (161 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22869	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I submitted this request in March, since it has been so since 2005 that according to § 3 of the Income Tax Act, drinking incomes are no longer taxed, but are probably used as a basis for the assessment of social security. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have made the request to stop using these for the calculation of social security, which is also – and this will interest colleagues Wöginger – probably also in the light of the workers' chamber elections, which ÖAAB Oberösterreich has pronounced, working chamber vice-president Feilmair. He says literally: “The current system is unfair for many workers. Drinkers are a voluntary service, the actual reference is difficult to detect. They are a financial incentive for special services especially in those professions that are already among the low-paid industries." In this context, the General Assembly of the Chamber for Workers and Employees in Carinthia has called on the Federal Government and the parties represented in the National Council to free in the future drinking funds from social security in addition to tax freedom, and to abolish the drinking fee which can be up to €80, depending on the profession. I was absolutely sure that this request would find the majority here, as Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Spindelegger did on 29 May. April said in his budget speech – and I quote this again literally –: [[the speaker puts a poster on the speaker’s desk, on which the counterfee of Minister of Finance Spindelegger and the statement: “We have to change that ”]] 'On the topic of wage accounting: There are too many exceptions. It is not to be seen that there are 400 different contribution groups, so we are also seeking harmonisation of ASVG and income tax law, because it is difficult to explain that drink money is exempt from income tax, but is seen as a share of wages in social security. We must also change that and unite it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] “ My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not understand why you reject this request, although your own Vice-President and Minister of Finance has announced in his budget speech that he wants to do exactly that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But so it's obvious when you take the sample on the example with the ÖVP: On the first occasion, there is a falling down, lying down, and people are even being cheered for their drinking money.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22969	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e22990	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, this request for the full exemption of drinking funds from social security would lead to a significant deterioration for employees, especially in seasonal establishments, hotels and restaurants, tourism, even in mass hours and hairdressers, because the drinking allowance is a fixed part of the remuneration for those occupational groups and the social security assessment basis is essential for the provision of benefits from unemployment insurance, pension insurance or sickness benefit. I will show you a calculation so that you can see in numbers how this would affect, you would take out the drinking money from the social security calculation. I have here the collective agreement for the hospitality industry in Lower Austria. The gross monthly wage of a restaurant specialist with a degree examination starting from 25 years of service – this is not daily in the hotel and hospitality industry – is 1 732,60 €. I paid a monthly drink fee of approximately €600 for social insurance. This would result in this person becoming incompetent until 43. Day a sickness benefit – the basis of assessment is 50 percent – could amount to €166.30. If one were to follow this request, it would be €300 less, from 43 onwards. Day, if the person concerned is in the state of illness longer, it would even be around €360 per month less. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] As far as unemployment benefit is concerned – in the seasonal mode, the employees also become unemployed – this would be about € 190 a month lower, which means a bad situation. Emergency aid would be around €49.10 per month for this person. Here we already see that, if we follow this proposal, this would mean a significant deterioration for the employees, especially in those areas which are very flexible and where the wage is not very high under the collective agreement. We social democrats do not advocate that employees receive less social benefits, but advocate that they have more net gross in the wallet and that a future tax reform in the wallet will be felt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23035	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23057	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I cannot understand this approach at all. The drinks are first of all not a fixed wage component. You know for yourself that drinking money is subject to fluctuations. These are dependent, I say, on the mood of the customer, even on such absurd things as the weather. They depend on how much I work this month. If I'm in the hospital or on vacation, I won't get a drink. That is to say, to argue, that is fixed and therefore I can also withdraw social security contributions from it, which is not even conclusive. The second point: They say that if these flat-rate amounts do not add to the basis of assessment and therefore do not enter into the further calculations, this will result in the social security contributions being low and therefore also the benefits such as unemployment benefit, pension et cetera. That's where you're going by the core problem. The core problem is the low wages in this industry, both in hairdressers and in the hospitality industry. That's the problem! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Support You there the demand for higher wages! Look at you coming up with the collective contracts! For years, you've been promising us this and preventing a legal solution as we demand it. There is a need for minimum wage for existential security. Then the social security contributions are high enough to include in the case of unemployment and later in the pension a To have security of existence. That would be the right and fair way.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23105	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23126	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of social security, according to § 49 para. 1 ASVG shall pay all the money and property to which the employee is entitled and which he shall receive from the service provider or from a third party on account of the service relationship. In other words, according to this definition of remuneration, drinks are, of course, also covered by the concept of social security. As drinking fees are difficult to determine according to the height, it is in the ASVG, namely in § 44 para. 3. provide for a possibility of fixation. That is, if, according to the request, you want to make the drinking money contribution-free, then it is not enough just to cancel the drinking fee fee, but then you also have to add it to § 49 para. 3 ASVG provides for a corresponding derogation. In § 49 para. 3 ASVG have In fact, they list those components which are excluded from the obligation to contribute under social security. And here is already a problem that is rightly addressed in the request, namely the problem that – listen to me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] There's something you can learn, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In § 49 para. 3 are defined as those components which are not subject to the obligation to contribute. And this is one of the problems you have raised in the request, namely, that differences in tax and contribution fixing exist under tax law and social security law. There are also a number of other differences in the assessment of taxes and contributions under tax law and social security law, such as the application of the inflow principle under tax law and the principle of claim under social security law. This means that the wage tax will not be deducted until the benefit actually takes place, i.e. if the payment is actually paid. However, the social security contribution shall be cancelled if the claim arises, even if the payment is not actually made at the due date. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] What do I want? - I'll tell you one thing: These examples, which I have now brought to you, clearly show that it is not enough simply to use the drinking money and merely to free the drinking money from the obligation to contribute, but we must continue. What we need is harmonisation between tax law and social security law, because the existing differences in both areas result in a great deal of complexity. And here it would be important to harmonise. This applies not only to the ASVG, but also to the GSVG, because we also see in the GSVG that the different rules in tax law and social security law make it difficult to determine the insurance obligation of the so-called new self-employed according to § 2 para. 1 Z 4 GSVG as well as the determination of the basis of contribution according to § 25 GSVG. In other words, this example also shows that we need harmonisation between tax law and social security law and that, therefore, this request that exists today, It's too short, because it's just when you take a drink, it's just too short. Here we need a further solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23190	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23211	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Watch the gallery and the televisions! We have just heard from colleague Beatrix Karl, the more paragraphs you apply in practice, the more you get away from practice. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] I think that is the main problem, especially with our hosts and tourism companies. This is not a matter that can be ordered like an official's job or where I can make fixed working hours. Since I was yesterday at the award of the State Prize “Familiest farm”, I have to say that has given me to think. There were no hosts there, there were no representatives of tourism companies. There was the AMS Styria, there were representatives of tax consultancy firms. Clearly, there I have regulated working hours, there I can put it in order. But we are talking about staff members in the gastronomy, where you have seasonally different impact times, which you can't arrange with paragraphs so easily. And that's exactly the problem. And we have another problem. For example, we had very sensible facilities, where working mothers or those in Karenz helped out at times on the weekend, for example, a pocket money in the host. That's what we've taxed. That's what we've done. We keep getting away from practice. And here I think it has been changed by our committee chairman, who has rightly said that, at this point, the Vice-President has promised to do so. And we do not discuss again as in the Committee: This is too far-reaching and we are making a bigger solution! Let's rather make a goal-setting policy of small steps than always delaying and consoling on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. That doesn't make any sense. We need to look at the topic of innkeepers, tourism, that we take into account the practice and really do something for the employees I want to thank at this point and who have a job that requires constant willingness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23257	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23279	I didn't want to talk anymore today, but it must be. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party to think something further! - Yes, one more time. [[Abg. Haider refers to the poster already shown during his speech.]] They can be assured that the 346 wage groups will be reformed. I also call you a small example: Take an apprentice, this one is exempt from unemployment insurance. This is one of the 346 wage groups. Now, at once, we put this apprentice all the same with all the others, which means 3 percent less gage for him. [[Abg. Haider: Take a hairdresser!]] And that's what you understand under the protection of the little man. - That's one. The second is that you should also think a little bit more about payment entitlements – and Mrs. Karl presented it to you with the paragraphs, § 44 – in the case of insurance. And if you were really a representative of the little man – which you are not at all, you are not at all – then you would do two things. [[Abg. Haider: We already!]] Then you would make sure that your representatives in the Chamber of Commerce are also committed to bringing about other collective agreements there. That's one point. Look You're just turning to the broadcasts of your ring of Freedom-Economics! They're all diametric. Point two: Then you would also think that it would make sense to maintain the social insurance obligation of pay, because in the life of people there is not only beautiful, but very often insurance cases. And it's a difference whether the basis of assessment is €70 lower in sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, emergency aid, or if it's €70 higher. That's a difference. And it's also a difference if you've worked your entire life in the industry, whether the pension base is higher or lower. I'd ask you to take the little man's interests seriously into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23337	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 161 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:58:46]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 446/A(E) by Mrs Angela Lueger, Mr Angela Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr President, on access to the basic account in the EU (145 d.a.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 422/A(E) by Mr Mag. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues on the abolition of interest rates (146 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 445/A(E) by Mrs Angela Fichtinger, Mr Angela Lueger, Members and colleagues on opt-out for NFC banknote cards (147 d.b.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 119/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on “Study to evaluate the impact of NFC banknote cards on consumers” (148 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 134/A(E) by Mr Mag. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues on contactless payment (149 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23440	We now come to the items 16 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23467	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens at home! Contactless payment is based on NFC. This is the most innovative method of payment. This payment method may probably be very simple at once and what its application is about to sound very fast; it also sounds very safe as a conventional classic transaction. However, since many consumers are not even informed about the risks of this new technology, I would like to briefly explain this by means of an example. Our consumer, Mrs Schmidt, has an NFC-enabled banknote card. When Mrs Schmidt received this banknote card, she did not even know about this function, because the card was routinely and not simply exchanged. Only once did she use the card because her daughter wanted to show her this function. What does this mean for our consumer, Mrs Schmidt? – I also have to say that in our capitalist consumer society, the economy is not primarily thinking of consumers but of their own interests. – Now we assume that Ms. Schmidt's wallet is being stolen on the subway. As an account holder, you threaten a damage of up to €125, because you can pay €5 times €25 without entering a PIN code. These 125 € may probably be no harm to a bank manager, but for the retired Mrs Schmidt and for many Austrians 125 € are not a little money. There is also the question of the border between lighter and gross negligence, because this is an object of a complex civil court jurisdiction, which most consumers may not even be accustomed to. The general terms and conditions of the banks are also rare to provide information on the cases in which the bank is liable and in which cases it is excluded. Finally, it was also known that there is now a very simple mobile app that allows people to access data via NFC with a also NFC-enabled banknote card. That means nothing but that they can look at the last transactions, they can also query the credit status of Quick. Although there is in principle a right to object to the new payment method, if we follow the media reports, many consumers state that they have not even been informed of this opt-out option. For these reasons, the current practice is that banking customers like Mrs Schmidt are necessarily happy with an NFC-enabled banknote card. It would therefore be appropriate if consumers could decide for themselves in advance whether they want it at all or not. We welcome the fact that the Minister of Consumer Protection has held talks with the Bank and insurance division of the Chamber of Commerce and will continue to run. That is why we will, of course, also support the resolution of the government parties. Finally, I would like to say that it would also be good for the Consumer Protection Committee if it had expressed its support for an Austrian-wide and uniform opt-in possibility in this matter. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23519	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23540	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Visitors! I would like to dedicate my speech to the subject of basic account. We all know how difficult it is for people who do not have their own account, because it pushes them further away. I would like to put this on an example, an example of debt advice, where there is a certain Mr S. who has had an account with his bank for a long time. Mr S. deserves very well, never had problems with the bank, never had problems with his account. He loses his job, no longer has regular income and has the problem of having to go through debt regulation procedures despite family restrictions. The Bank comes with the argument: You're a bad customer! You're on a black list, we need to remove the bank account. – Thus, Mr S. also has the problem of not getting a new job, because: Who will take him as a new employer if he does not even have an account? Ladies and gentlemen! If you think that's an individual gift, I'm gonna have to let you down. This concerns 150 000 citizens in Austria. Experience from debtor practice shows quite simply that people are affected, for example, by job loss, by illness, by job search, even by light consumer behaviour, by failed self-employment, by the separation of relationships and, of course, by other debt problems. The withdrawal of the bank account – I mentioned this first – is often justified by the banks by the fact that it is private bankruptcy that no own account is made available, that there is an entry in a so-called black list, that there is no account and that there is a lack of credit. We can help these people now. There is now also a draft directive which states that we can make these so-called basic accounts available to these people. At present, it is in Austria that one can only get a basic account if one is in conjunction with the debtor's advice and with the caritas at individual Banks have the opportunity to open this account. But these people are then automatically stigmatized again. We must now strive to implement this EU directive, that we say that all market and supply-related banks must simply offer this basic account to these people. We do not then exclude these people from modern payments. But the desire we might have to do on our part would be: This directive was adopted in the EU in April. We would have two years for implementation, but it would be nice for these people if we were to implement a rapid implementation in the sense of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23591	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23613	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleagues! High house! Mrs Aslan has already talked about the cashless number with NFC cards. Many people already pay cashless. 90 percent of the amounts over € 100 are paid cashless, 10 percent of the amounts below €25 are also paid. The problem is, it is convenient to pay without PIN, but there are many risks that are not aware of the customer at all. In this sense, we call for an evaluation. We call for a study which will help customers, consumers, to be better informed about risks, liability, security gaps. This is very important to us, because many people do not know what a risk they take when using such cards. In this sense, I seek support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23643	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23664	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Consumer Protection Committee has dealt with some important issues such as contactless numbers with an NFC-enabled banknote card. I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Aslan's speech. Everyone can decide whether to take this card or not. He decides for himself whether to use them. There are, according to consumer protection and even according to the Chamber of Commerce, almost no complaints that there would have been any events regarding this card. [[Abg. Aslan: None yet!]] So that's how much I can say, it's not something completely new, but this card is actually available in limited form. In particular, I may carry out the following specifically to the basic account: The basic account is against a corresponding cost replacement an account based on a hands-on, which is implemented in accordance with the EU Directives and thus poses a rather low risk to banks. It is important for consumers to allow them access to a bank account with basic functions in order to process invoices through an account. We know that it is often very difficult – not only difficult, but cost-intensive: If you give up a license directly, it is associated with very high fees. When it is made via an account, it is easier and not so expensive. There are already some rules in payment. First of all, credit institutions need to create this possibility. So far, there have been some who have made it possible to catch up with some. However, it must be noted that: In fact, it is to the safety of the consumer in order not to lose the overview of his own finances, since it is of course reasonable that there are also some rules regarding this basic account. This account must not be covered, the account holder does not receive a bank card in the actual sense, but only a bank service card. With this he can cancel money in the foyer, only in the bank's own ATMs, but no banknote payments are made directly in the business. This makes it possible for him to retrieve the account balance that he can make his deposits and all that in the foyer, but nothing else. In Austria there are about 150 people who do not have their own bank account for various reasons. [[Abg. Honey: 150,000!]] This often leads them to major economic and social problems. Many people are put in the way of such a large stone, for example, in the search for a living or in the search for a job. In 2012, in Austria, 25 000 people have already used such a basic account. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this decision we give people who have suffered a fate a second chance. This second chance deserves everyone. As an employee representative, I am convinced that with the basic account, we facilitate the return to the work process for many people in Austria and in general create an improvement for many in social and economic life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23714	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23736	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lueger and also Mrs Fichtinger have already explained the importance of a current account for a modern person, or also the importance of having access to an account. Mrs Lueger also called for the EU directive, which makes it necessary to make real access possible, to be implemented quickly. But “rapid” is a very relative term in this great coalition – that is, not only in this one, but already in the previous one – because already six years ago, I have for the first time applied for a right to a basic account; in consequence, after rejection or delay, I have repeatedly submitted a request. And now, perhaps, implementation is coming in the next two years. In that respect, I am only moderately enthusiastic about this request, because it does nothing else than ask the Minister to do what he has to do, namely to implement the directive, but I interpret it in such a way that the EIA is drawn a little bit to the tie, so to speak, to stand behind this matter, otherwise it would be rather a zero number. But it's good if this account, this right to a credit account comes soon. We Greens have long called for this and hope that the more than 150,000 people concerned will have a real chance to get better into the regular To be integrated life when it really comes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23771	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23792	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! NFC banknote cards, a new technology, introduced from the EU's pure desire to profit, some banks and corporations. This banknote card has been in use and circulation in Austria for a short time. What can this banknote card do to a normal banknote card? – You can pay up to €25 without putting the card into a terminal and entering a PIN code five times. The advantage of this card: a faster payment at the checkouts. – That is not what I and not we liberals claim, some corporations and some banks claim. The workers' chamber very well confirms that there are huge vulnerabilities in this payment process. It is strange that the desire for profit does not know any limits when it comes to disposing. Consumers stay on the track. The human being, the consumer is not only illuminating, but he is transparent from loud controls. We strongly reject such actions from the FPÖ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23826	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23847	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We NEOS are committed to consumer protection aimed at creating an informed citizen, an informed citizen, a person who is able to make a decision on his own responsibility. On some occasions, we have already pointed out, for example VRUG, Consumer Rights Directive Enforcement Act, that we doubt that European consumer protection policy, but sometimes national consumer protection policy, actually has these responsible, self-responsible citizens in mind. It also raises the question of the dimension in this context. Before I come to the NFC card, I would like to say something about eCall, a system that is likely to be installed in all cars throughout Europe in the foreseeable future. This is a driving arrow station that every citizen and citizen will have in their car, in his car, whether she or he wants it or not. There is no way for citizens to opt out and say: I don't want to. I don't want an arrow transmitter. This is not the meaning of consumer protection, as we imagine it, even though, of course, the safety of people is a priority here and I am very sure that the benefits of this technology are clear to me. It's clear, too, it's about information. I can only opt out of something if I have this information. This brings me to the NFC card and why we support these requests, the requests made by Mr Fichtinger, Mr Lueger and Mr Aslan. Of course, people have to be able to say: & Half-line Lo, that's what it's all about, I know about this system now. This brings me benefits, but maybe also disadvantages, and I don't want it. I probably also heard complaints in the private environment that this card was sent to, was exchanged without any information being received. So in this case, to ask for more information, I think it is very, very essential. I would like to say something about Mr Aslan's request for a legal ban on interest rates. We definitely reject that. We also believe that this is totally beyond the goal. Here, too, the goal must be to provide information, then, if an over-indebtedness has occurred, and possibly the borrowing will be cheaper than to continue to cover the account. But to ban that by law, we think that is absolutely overwhelming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23892	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23914	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to Mr Aslan's request for the abolition of interest on cover. I would, however, like to make one point: that these interest rates, interest on cover, are immeasurably high. It is not to be seen why this has not been adjusted. The money is cheaper than ever for the banks, there is almost no interest on credit, but the interest on overdraft has remained the same. We should really discuss whether this should not be adapted. But what I would also like to say is that we are against a abolition or a ban on these interest rates. It could happen to many people, to many customers, then, that the bank no longer allows an overload, but we should keep this possibility open to customers. It's a business that they make up with the bank themselves in many cases, and there are situations, emergencies – it doesn't always have to be an emergency, it can also be a bit enjoyable – in which you want to get money quickly. This is just one of the ways to get a loan unbureaucratic and fast. And I want to see this possibility, but as I said, it's not just people who are in a debt spiral. [[Abg. Aslan: People don't get out of the debt spiral anymore!]] That's a factor you can discuss with. However, what I really want to discuss in a broad sense is whether these interest rates really have to be that high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23951	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e23973	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have already heard some points of view, from more rights for consumers on the part of the FPÖ to the NEOS line, namely more independence and more competition. The truth will lie somewhere in the middle, for example, when we remember that 150,000 people in our country cannot exercise this self-determination because institutions or legal regulations do not allow them to decide their own future, to take a chance in professional life, this so-called second opportunity that we want to allow them through this basic account. So it's not just the cigarette machines, so far we're already in our company, where we can't buy cigarettes without a service or a bank card. There are many other services, but also business areas, from parking fees to various other shops et cetera. All of this should make this credit card possible for people. I therefore believe that it is necessary for us to be able to implement the EU Directive regulation as soon as possible, if possible in 2014, and to seek your agreement in the interest of those people who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24005	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24026	Mr President. Federal Minister! I also want to comment on the NFC cards. Prior to a general conclusion: Data, personal and ideally linked to product data, are the capital of the present, and its importance will continue to rise in the future. And one of the data providers is cashless payment. The implementation of the additional services to the new banknote cards was carried out without consultation and agreement of the card holders. We've heard this many times now. Somewhere among the general Business conditions will certainly be legally covered. There are devastating press releases on this subject, for example in the “Standard” in January: ‘Critics of ‘compulsory luck’ by NFC banknote cards’ or in the ‘Press’ in February: ‘Each second does not want to function’. There is a Spectra survey with a personal sample of 500. 63 per cent of the security concerns were expressed, 33 per cent are in favour of this additional function, and only 28 per cent want to use it. There are until now, although the system is already in operation, no risk analyses, apparently no complaints, but many people do not know what they are using. However, there are a lot of critical messages from the computer area. There is the message about the app, and there are other similar things. From my point of view, therefore, the only reasonable solution in terms of consumer protection can only be: The bank customer actively decides to use the NFC function, and the standard execution of a banknote card has disabled this function. That would be an optimal, consumer-friendly solution. The opt-out solution mentioned in an application is an improvement in the current situation, but in turn requires a subsequent activity of the consumer and this in part under a temporary limitation. opt-out features have recently come into fashion with us, for example, when you think of the health file ELGA, where it is not so easy to opt for “out”. My appeal to colleagues in the Consumer Protection Committee: Let us consider a reasonable request and continue to deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24067	Next speaker: Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24088	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since spring 2013 also in Austria rich banknote cards with the additional function in the field of near-field communication, i.e. the NFC function already mentioned several times. Since then, there has been a critical media coverage of this new cashless payment possibility. Discussions in the media range from lack of information to insufficient choice. Safety concerns are also mentioned again and again. As far as security is concerned, however, I would like to note that NFC technology has been tested in money traffic in more than 50 countries for about ten years, and the experience does not indicate an increased security risk in the event of contactless payment. It is not possible to duplicate the chip of the bank card, which also includes this NFC function, and reading the data via mobile app over longer distances is not possible despite media reporting. However, the fact is, and we must note that the introduction of the NFC payment system has come as a surprise to many Austrian consumers, and most of them have not been sufficiently informed about the new possibility of the bank card. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Spectra MarktforschungsgesmbH, about 32 per cent of all banknote card owners currently have such a card with NFC function, and only 5 per cent of all banknote card owners have already tried this function and paid with it. It is essential that, according to this survey, one third of all banknote card owners feel inadequately informed by their bank. Most of the bank customers – around 88 percent – want to decide for themselves whether or not the bank card is equipped with an NFC function. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We take the concerns of consumers very seriously, and we are also committed in the House to ensuring that extensive information is provided by the banks in the future. We also agree that an effective choice, an opt-in or opt-out solution for Austrian consumers is guaranteed. That is why we also support the proposal that has already been made in the Consumer Protection Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24139	Mrs Diesner-Wais has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24161	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to talk about abolishing the interest rate. In Austria, it has become so going and going, living practice, and it has become obvious that people are crossing their account. This is a specification from Austria and Germany, which is nowhere else in Europe. According to information from consumer protectionists, one fifth of the Austrians makes use of this possibility. Overdraft interest rates are those that add to the fixed interest rates after the Bank's balance has been exhausted. The amount of these interest rates, which my colleague has already mentioned, is often not justified, but there are several banks to choose from, and some act responsibly. One thing you also have to say: Our consumers know that they have to pay for something that costs something when they cross the account. However, they highly appreciate this possibility, because it is unbureaucratic and they have the security to get money when they are in an emergency. If you have any fault in the car, in the washing machine or in another device or have to pay your electricity costs, this is the possibility that this will happen. You can make it comfortable and beneficial, but you also have to be careful – because the colleague has mentioned that you get into a debt spiral immediately – that this is only useful in the case of short-term payment difficulties; otherwise you have to think about getting a loan. The bank has a risk because it has no guarantee from the consumer. It also has costs because it has to make the money available at any time. It is therefore also possible and necessary to withdraw certain amounts. If one calls for the abolition of the corresponding interest rates, it is true that the bank no longer has the flexibility to make money available as it has been. As a result, I believe that consumers have more disadvantages than benefits. Therefore, we can very well demand that we want more transparency in the whole matter, but we should nevertheless be given the opportunity for consumers to continue to receive money relatively unbureaucratic, and therefore we will not agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24206	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24227	Mr President. Minister! Yes, Minister, we have a completely different view as to consumer protection; I have already indicated this in the Committee. I believe that the consumer in Austria has lost a lot of protection over recent years, and there is already a reason why 10,000 lobbyists are sitting in Brussels. This is what I am saying today after the EU election has been voted on. That is, all that comes from Brussels as consumer protection is in fact corporate protection. Consumers in Austria and, above all, those who cannot defend themselves are increasingly on the wheels. You and I – we have a good income – we can always judge it. Once quite specific at interest rates. I have a current case; I'm not going to call the credit institution, but: This appeals to a friend of mine to the Consumer Credit Act. This man slips into the minus at just under €3,000, and the bank pays 14 percent pay and 5 percent interest on overdraft, almost 19 percent interest. There you have interest rates of 0.125 percent; that is, that is, a hundred times. In normal economic life, I would call it an outrage, and as far as I know, it was abolished. That's a hundred times! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of savings we now have the same thing in green, because if you are not a luxury pensioner red, black or green, then you will probably get no more than 1 percent of interest on the savings book. So, what is reality? – You pay 25 percent of it, and we have inflation of 2 percent or more. That is, the little savers are gradually expropriated. Where is the protection of the consumer protection minister? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next issue, also an up-to-date case, which I have already mentioned in committee: the ORF digital card. Suddenly, all the spectators forced to switch to the digital card get a letter, they have to buy a new card, it costs €15 because the old card loses its technical functionality. We must believe that in Austria, because nobody can do anything about it anyway. We're forced to operate with this card. And the ORF with his forced fees is doing it! To the next topic. We have made a request – as all of us in the Committee were terrified – regarding the suspension of fees at federal, regional and municipal level by 2018. There would not be a collapse of the world, but there would be very, very many consumers in Austria, at least for a few years, spared from a very massive deterioration of their daily lives, because the charges in this area have so far increased extremely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24285	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24306	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:30 seconds!]] It's not going to be all right for 30 seconds. Mr Beate Meinl-Reisinger pointed out something very important: We need to deal with new technologies and find rules on how to deal with these new technologies. We will also have to deal here more often with the topic of near-field communication, probably with very different topics. But to justify, with this new technology, that there needs to be a study on the impact of near-field communication on cashless payment, I think that I am overburdened, especially if it is justified in such a way that this payment with the close-field communication method would lead to the strengthening of the purchasing behaviour. With this method, the smallest amounts are paid during everyday purchase. If you object that you can order everything on the Internet 24 hours a day with credit card, the question is already what leads to a purchase search and what does not. It was important – and this was also at the heart of this discussion – that we clarify these new technologies, and that we clarify them objectively and in the direction of freedom of fear. And what is also very important: We must try to ensure that consumers have the freedom to choose whether they want to benefit from this technology or not. That is why it is important that we have created this opt-out method, because many customers already have this banknote card, and many customers depend that we give them this opt-out option. I would also like to mention the following: Finally, the customer decides whether technologies are accepted or not. If we look into the large shops where these self-service boxes were introduced, the fear was that there would be no more cashiers over a short or long time. Then we found that this is a technology that is not so accepted in Austria. And it will also be very important for this method to be used by consumers. I mean, people are good enough to deal with this technology properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24351	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Abge-ordnette Magistrate. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24372	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Values Advisors! In my speech, I also deal with this new banknote card function NFC – near field communication – which allows payment of small amounts up to €25 with the banknote card without PIN input. Ladies and gentlemen from the Greens, in their request for alleged abuses, point out that this proposal is intended to create a separate law which grants consumers the right to vote, whether they wish to have cards with this function or not. This request is not accepted by the ÖVP because since April 2013 no abuse cases have been known in more than 1.6 million transactions and no complaints have occurred about the fact that there would have been an unwanted settlement, which is not even possible, at least not over larger distances, because, as the name says, it is close-field communication. The fact is that banks and credit card companies already offer cards with this feature and customers have the option to use cards with or without such a function. This means that withdrawal is only possible up to an amount of €25; for higher amounts, the PIN code must be entered. The advantage of these banknote cards is certainly that you save time on numbers because you do not have to enter PIN codes – and you do not have to print out the PIN code because it does not have to be entered. Thirdly, however, this function may be a relief especially for older people, if the cumbersome search for coins is removed. In any case, I think it would be preferable to create a law of my own for the granting of an option. It would be much more important to inform the public about the choice. I repeat when I say that consumer protection must be aimed at: a powerful consumer/a powerful consumer – and not a proud citizen. And this magnitude can only be achieved with more information. With its motion for a resolution, the ÖVP would therefore like to stop the Federal Minister from holding further talks and taking initiatives in order to inform more about this new payment technology and also about these options.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24433	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Before I come to the votes, I would like to announce that the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution by Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to more income through an immediate reduction in the wage tax to strengthen purchasing power, two voting cards with the emphasis “Mag. Dr. Beatrix Karl. ” The correct vote is therefore: votes cast 156, of which 'yes': 64, No votes: 91, invalid: 1. The difference is on the vote result without influence. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We are now voting on Agenda item 16: the resolution on access to the EU base account attached to the Committee report 145 of the Supplements. I would ask for attention and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of SPÖ) I think you should already agree to your request!]] [[Abg. Pendl: No man hears what is being spoken!]] I repeat: We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We are now voting on Agenda item 16: the resolution on access to the EU base account attached to the Committee report 145 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe at FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] – This is unanimously accepted. (E 25.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of his report 146 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on Agenda item 18: the resolution on opt-out for NFC banknote cards attached to the Committee's report 147 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 26.) We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 148 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 149 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:43:19]] 21. Point report of the Committee on Education on the Government template (141 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, with which the Federal School Supervisory Act, the School Organisation Act, the 5. School Organisation Act-Novelle, the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, the School Education Act, the Federal Law on Schools for the Training of Physical Teachers and Sports Teachers, the Minority School Law for Burgenland, the Minority School Law for Carinthia, the compulsory school maintenance basic law, the School Time Act 1985, the Private School Act, the School Obligation Act 1985, the Education Documentation Act and the Land Teacher Service Law (School Authority Reform and Law Purification Act 2014) (150 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24568	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dr. Rosenkranz spoke on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24596	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is now happening in the so-called follow-up procedure that a basically good reform will be decided, namely the abolition of district school councils as an administrative level, whose agendas now go to the National School Council. This is basically positive, and therefore very many materials affected by this reform are quite positive, from this amendment, which is available for decision-making here today. But with such a novelle – under quotation marks – other points come in through the “Hintertür” as well. In addition to the formal concerns that the time of the review was an unusually short time, however many bodies have assembled, some important experts of this draft law – I am thinking primarily of the Court of Auditors, but also of national school councils – have said: In fact, some things are not, or are insufficient, or even poorly regulated. We believe that this proposal does not lay down the basis, including the economic basis of special education, the need for children who have very special needs. It is not enough for us today to come or come up with a motion for an amendment which concerns simply changing the name of what these schools are supposed to be called. This was an issue which was also widely discussed in the Committee. It has been said that the term “special school” is negative, and that is why a reform of this school system might also lead to a new name for children with very special needs. However, this was actually the “most important” – under quotation marks – in the matter of a content reform of special education. But that's done, of course. That's very typical. It seems that this has been enough for the Greens too, because, contrary to the Committee's rejection of this reform, the Greens, who have called for a new, a different name, have now been accepted by the Greens. They should only be able to change the title. The fact is that there is too little money for special educational needs, but the colleague Hauser will also speak about this. The fact is, however, that there will be too little money for appropriate language support. Therefore, I submit the following request for conclusion:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24659	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24729	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24751	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The short legislative text, which is now before the vote, contains more than is apparent at first glance. On the one hand, it is an extension of language promotion, an important measure of equal opportunities. It is now the key to being able to participate in the Community. On the other hand, however, it is also about legal adjustment, which results from the resolution of the District School Councils. And on this occasion it was my concern, and also many of you, to make a clarification of the terms. That is why the corresponding amendment you have already announced comes. In the future, it will mean: Centres for Inclusive and Special Education, because this also corresponds to what is done or is to be done in these centres, i.e. children with disabilities, with disabilities, to provide school care which is the best individually for the child. The child should, as far as possible, be allowed to remain in the class association with the other children. This is called inclusive pedagogy, and in practice it must be reinforced even more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When I was in Styria Education Councillor, I also put great emphasis on this and also asked the district and country school inspectors to pay particular attention to it. That is why we have brought together a particularly high inclusion rate. But it is about putting this up accordingly throughout Austria. This is certainly not just about changing the door shield, but about a programmatic task. I thank all those who have the necessary insight and sensitivity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24793	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24814	Mr President. High house! Mrs Bundesminister, with the resolution of the District School Council you have now had a unique opportunity to finally take a step in the right direction. You had this opportunity, but you didn't use it. You have therefore not used them, and you have confirmed this in the Committee, because in the end you simply rename them or move them from one level of administration to another. The whole thing then brings 30 planning points, probably only in the next few years, because there are no posts being mined here. There is nothing else to be done but to push District School Councils 1 : 1 to the National School Council, to leave everything almost identical, even the planning stations. Only by the natural finish, you can expect here 30 planning sites that are to become free. Now I ask you, Mrs Minister: If you're already looking for a reform here, why are you making a label flaw? There we are at the next label gap, also with regard to special schools. No one has anything of it if these schools are simply renamed. Now the backgrounds and the putting in behind them are good, but with a name change we do not achieve anything. The reason why you no longer trust in the district school councils or special education or also at the primary school, which was simply renamed “New Middle School”, is that you do not trust at last to access where the problems actually lie, namely with the country chieftains. I recognize your efforts, but if you do not finally get in the process and trust yourself to become active against the princes of the country and finally take away their big toys, namely the schools, where they have been providing their old officials for decades and ultimately take influence on what is happening there – especially those who are going to be teachers there as teachers, even to the school guards, the politics is active there – as long as you do not trust it, Mrs. Minister, any reform will be just what you have once again stated on the paper: a label failure. One wants to deceive the public, one is active in this area anyway and makes reforms – but nothing happens. Nothing happens, Mrs Minister, and that is why I expect you to show a little more courage and finally do what is necessary. And if you do not know what to do, ask the Court of Auditors! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] The Court of Auditors has been saying for decades that something has finally to be done in the field of education. What you're doing, Minister: They moderate the standstill. Now, in my view, you have sent many positive signals today – we have had a conversation today – but I have already heard them from your predecessor as far as autonomy is concerned with reforms concerning the country's chieftains. I haven't seen anything yet! That's why, Minister, let us measure up to the actions. And I'm ready to give you a little advance, but in the future, there must be more to it than what you're presenting here: more administrative savings, more autonomy than what you've put into space. You said today that we should make proposals. We'll bring them to you! But then we also expect you to enforce these proposals against the heads of state, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Then it will be clear whether you are serious about it or whether you are just doing what your predecessor has done and your predecessor and those before it: continue to moderate the standstill to give the impression here, something happens anyway, the population can be satisfied anyway. But our school system is the most expensive and one of the most inefficient. We still have a quarter of compulsory school leavers who cannot read and write properly. That's a fact! At last you need to become active, and that's not enough what you're presenting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24878	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24899	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we discuss and adopt the School Authority’s Reform and Legalisation Act 2014. The starting point was the School Authority Administrative Reform Act 2013 with the abolition of the District School Councils. It is now more necessary to make the new rules here. It has been mentioned that this would remove an administrative level. And it is certainly not to be described as a big throw, but it is a step towards doing something in the field of administrative reforms, and it is a real step that is being taken here. Other regulations are also amended or re-established with this bill: in the case of language promotion, in the case of school leave for sports purposes, in the renaming of the special educational centres. I start with the promotion of language, because it seems to me most important. These language promotion courses benefit students at AHS sub-levels as well as at compulsory schools, those who were only admitted as extraordinary students due to lack of German knowledge. This measure will be extended by another two years, which is an important and correct step. 25 million € are available for the extension. These are 9,500 lessons per week, with 25,000 pupils being supported in learning the German language. At least as important as the promotion of language in schools is the early promotion of language up to the entry into school. I therefore also welcome the activities of Minister for Integration Sebastian Kurz, who will enter into negotiations with the countries in order to start this linguistic early promotion. By 2017, €45 million will be made available for this purpose. There are 15 million already, that is, we have 20 million € per year at our disposal. It is a very important point, and we have also enshrined it in the government programme: the determination of the four-year-olds' state of development, with the focus on language recognition. It's quite obvious: A four-and-a-half-year-old language observation clearly shows that the children with German mother tongues are only 10 percent who need language support, while the children with non-German mother tongues are 58 percent who need such support. This is also evidenced by the subsequent evidence that these children have a worse starting point and therefore also a worse basic development. There are therefore few such children in the subsequent series in schools with matura degrees. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a change of law here, which is particularly important for the development of our children's language levels. I mean, it can't be the only measure. Another word to rename the special educational centres, because it has been criticized. Yes, it is once a change of name, but also a change of name creates some situation in which one is oriented, and it is a process of discussion in the matter of inclusion, integration and further development of these topics. But we also need to see that there are many parents who are concerned about their children when it comes to the question of immediate perfect inclusion. This needs to be discussed, we need to look at it more closely. There is also a need for many more measures that we need, of course, in further development. It is not only a question of continuing these steps in the field of administrative simplification, we also need a minimum standard definition for basic skills to read, write and calculate compulsory school leavers. But we also have to continue to discuss this with you today, thank you for that - on the development of school autonomy, because I believe that this is a fundamental prerequisite for the further development of our entire school system. We must discuss this courageously and openly and then implement it quickly. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24953	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e24975	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One of the main points of the debate in the Committee or today is the question: What can we do to integrate children who need special education into the general education system as far as possible? That is one of the crucial questions. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I have current data on the country of Tyrol. I have been busy in the country's policy of Tyrol for a long time and think it will be similar in other federal states. I quote from an answer to a question, relatively up-to-date and Tyrol concerning: How many children are taught according to the special school curriculum for severely handicapped children? – In school year 2013/14 there were 596 children. Another question: How many children who are taught according to the severely disabled curriculum receive their education integrated at a regular school? That means where are these children integrated into normal teaching? – Of 596, there are 116 children. In other words, more than 450 children are not integrated into regular education, but are taught in so-called special schools. Mr Rosenkranz has already found that if we change the name today and here – we naturally support it – special children, special schools and so on, that is really fine, we do not need to debate it, but that is far too little in content. The question must be asked: What can we do to bring even more children away from the current special schools to integration into normal schooling? There is a good example of this in Tyrol. There are no special schools at all in the Reutte district since the school year 1996/97. That is, all children in the district of Reutte were integrated. Why does this not work at all in the rest of Tyrol or in most federal states? These are precisely these points of content that I am missing today, which need to be improved and which we also encourage accordingly. In other words, in the future, we must simply be careful to ensure that, in teacher training, the corresponding advance This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. Teachers who are not trained to train children with a need for support, to train disabled children simply have difficulty in training. How do you deal with the fears of teachers who, in fact not trained, have to teach children with special educational needs? How does it look with methods for differentiated teaching? – These are hardly taught in teacher training. Another problem is: Children with disabilities are of course taught by support teachers – but we know that there are too few support teachers. The finances are not sufficient in Weitem. So what happens if the support teachers are missing? – It is also partly that the children are sent home, because there are too few support teachers who are not paid accordingly. That is to say – and this is what we expect from Mrs. Minister – it is too little if you change the door sign, but just as in Reutte for example, parents need to be advised accordingly to prepare directors and teachers for the tasks in order to actually be able to teach children with special educational needs in general. As long as these conditions, starting from teacher training, are not present, of course, this is a far too far-reaching step to simply exchange door signs and say, we remove the “special” and everything else is palletti. We need further steps that are not taken from the point of view of us liberals. That is why we cannot support this either. We will, however, submit ourselves accordingly in the future and also submit our claims in writing about content and applications. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25033	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25054	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Hauser! I'm telling you, the example Reutte is really a model. I was there with Mr Jarmer, we looked very closely at this, we also looked at a lot of schools. The amazing thing about these working models – and I think we have to take a model for that – which is amazing, it always works completely independently of the legal provisions when we have dedicated educators when we have parents who go along with them; then that is possible. I would almost speak of a “wonder of Reutte”, because geographically speaking, it is even more difficult to operate there. Director Roland Astl did this, did it successfully. At present, the Greens in Tyrol have been in line since they were in the state government – you have certainly got that – to entrust their own commissioner to extend this model Reutte to the whole of Tyrol. Here is a recommendation, Mrs Minister: Let's try this for all of Austria! We Greens are with us. I would also like to say to Mr Rosenkranz and his party colleagues: It's not just changing headlines, and I have to confess, we've taken a long time and we've been thinking about it: Can we agree, can we not agree? Is the glass half full, is it half empty? We see in the current template at least one step, we say, a step in the right direction, because one has changed a little more than just the title. To a law, to the effectiveness of a law, as you know, is also the explanation, belongs also the explanatory statement, and in the explanatory statement – Mr. colleague, please look at it! – is quite clear, the pre- the implementation of inclusion measures. This is not to laugh, Mr Rosary, but it is to be taken seriously. That's to be sued, that's the text of the law. This is also judged accordingly by a constitutional judge. I'm right, it's not the step we're hoping for, but it's a step in the right direction, that's why we're with it. I would also like to make the following request in order to perhaps stimulate the Minister to do more in this respect: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another request, however, on my second subject, to which I shall speak, is: Resolution by Dr Walser, colleagues, on Centres for Inclusive Education The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council, according to which the so-called “special educational centres” are renamed “centres for inclusive pedagogy”. [[Congratulations and bravado with the greens.]] That would be another step in the right direction. In order to further stimulate the enthusiasm of colleagues, a third request: Resolution by Dr Walser, Members of Parliament, on the implementation of Article 24 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled The National Council wants to decide “The Federal Minister for Education and Women is invited to draft a bill with the involvement of experts with disabilities and to submit it to the National Council, which, in the sense of the implementation of the UN Disability Convention, has the content of converting the existing special schools into centres for inclusive education, and for all students with special educational needs, implements the inclusive teaching.” I think we would be a step further if we did so. Let me say a few more words about the decision to extend language promotion courses! – No reasonable person can be against it. Each teacher reports how important these courses are. They are now also evaluated by the University of Vienna. It is quite clear that the University of Vienna has found that the positive effects are clearly detectable. That is why we have great problems on this point, Mrs Minister, and that is why we also have this motion for a resolution: Why, in turn, do we only extend this for two years? We need legal certainty at last. More than 440 pedagogues are affected, for these 440 pedagogues we only extend this for two years. We all know that we need these language promotion courses at schools, the results are clear. That is why we also have our motion for a resolution. We will continue to fight to ensure that we can finally offer these courses indefinitely, so that not only teachers at schools, but also parents are sure that their children will be supported accordingly and can participate in regular lessons after a certain period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25172	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25319	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25340	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens of all places, in the galleries, in the apartments at home in front of the screens! [[Call the FPÖ: There's no one!]] We can carry the package on the table to vote. I think the topics included are very important. Mrs Minister, you know that we would like to see a much more determined approach to all these issues that are moving along. A clear yes from NEOS to language early promotion! I think that's very important. In the direction of FPÖ: I consider the language early promotion of course important for children from migrant families, but also important for children who do not come from migrant families. My sister is a district school inspector or now a compulsory school inspector, and she tells me what many teachers from other areas of Austria tell me that the topic of language competence is of course becoming more and more important, not only for children with migration backgrounds, but also for children of indigenous origin have great shortcomings. This naturally has to do with social change, which has to do with media behavior et cetera, et cetera. That is, I consider language competence to be a very central key for quality in Austrian education and for successful teaching. I would like you to make a very, very determined move forward here. This is a delicate step. We will, of course, also support the green request for non-retirement, because I believe we must come to a planning security, at least at this low level on which we move. Inclusion – also an important point for us NEOS. Strengthening inclusion, driving forward is important, also in the sense of a holistic understanding of education, in the sense of equal opportunities. We will also support the request of the coalition parties for a change of name. Language forms reality, it stands out for me from discussion. Of course, this is now also a question of labelling, if one wants to frame it negatively, but if we frame it positively and say, language forms reality, then it is a base of departure to get into a forced impact direction, to bring inclusion forward decisively. I think we can also orient ourselves to those regions, to individual districts in Tyrol, as we have already heard, which operate very successfully. I think that's a trip with many, many steps. This renaming is a small step, but one that makes sense from our point of view. Finally, on the subject of school administration, which is included here: I'm just coming from a meeting next door where I met a district chief who told me how he sees it. I mean, we all agree, that is – the French would say no big deal – a small step, 30 planning points, but that makes sense. You know we would like to take very decisive steps in the school administration area. On the one hand, the Austrian Convention has made good proposals, and, of course, the Court of Auditors has made excellent proposals which have already been rejected; we have tabled them as a request. I am still interested in two issues, which I am now putting into a motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] If we take this journey of autonomy – and a confession comes from you, Mrs. Minister, that's good for me – then, of course, the school principals are a very blatantly important key position in the school system. It's got to be real executives, from professional understanding. They also need training other than today, and I will not get tired of advocating it – so today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25389	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25453	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25475	Madam President. High house! It was just mentioned that many small steps are taking place. I say that many small steps will pave the way for us to take together in education. This shows our conversations in between, which also shows the confession in requests of the opposition to continue this way. I just have to put the steps in such a way that they can also be accordd, and that sometimes takes a little more time. But what is available today is, of course, to welcome. On the one hand, it is not always the case that when 30 planning points are saved, which is the large budget item that is saved in the sense of improving efficiency. I believe that we can also talk about increasing effectiveness when we say that the District School Colleges no longer have to meet. The agents of the district school councils are assigned to the national school council, where different, direct, sometimes even faster decisions are made. I believe that this adaptation to the school law system, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. They only have a different name, namely the renaming to Centres for Inclusive and Special Pedagogy. This is not only a purely re-named concept of adaptation, but also, in fact, an inclusion roadmap which has already been started under my predecessor, and which will not least be continued by me due to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. In July, I will renegotiate with all relevant organisations what is enshrined in the government programme, namely the continuation or promotion of inclusive model regions and the inclusive education itself, which was also determined by decision last year, when the education system was newly adopted. It is also important to note that, including pedagogy, teaching is also taught at the educational universities and universities when we will re-implement the education of teachers. On the other hand: Yes, there's a lot of money going on in the kindergarten in terms of language promotion, language recognition, developmental status. In short, my colleague will negotiate this with the countries in the near future. However, even the resources already mentioned and available for voting for the next two years are, I believe, a real step that has already been taken in 2006/2007. The university's accompaniment shows that it really has great effect. I believe that both must be possible, namely: inclusive in the class association To allow children to receive language promotion, but sometimes also to be taught in their own groups by exception. Both are made with these 440 planning sites, scattered over the school types already mentioned, throughout Austria and also shows successes. I believe that today this package is one that will take us a step further together, namely the next steps, how we can well anchor across Austria, including education, and how in the school administration we can follow this small step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25520	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25541	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! As a key point in the School Administration Reform Act, I see the extension of the school language promotion courses by two more years for pupils at compulsory schools and at the AHS sub-level. Language promotion courses represent an indispensable measure to support students with a first language other than German. With this measure, through which around 440 planned posts are available – we have already heard this many times today – around 25,000 students can continue to be supported in language promotion courses. Over the last few years, it has been seen that these funding courses are indispensable and have proved themselves to be an instrument of placement and consolidation of teaching skills and, above all, social integration in the class. The early learning of the language of teaching, of course, enables the students to follow the course better. Language understanding and communication skills are the key to schooling. In the same way, there is a greater number of languages available. It is a well-founded knowledge base and it also increases the chances of a high-quality school degree. Language promotion must be given a special value, because we need a common language for a good co-existence. The earlier our students are promoted, the better education and job opportunities they have in their further life. I therefore welcome the fact that this measure will now be extended by two more years until the end of the 2015/2016 school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25578	Mr Huainigg has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25599	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I'm talking a little bit with a staggering voice today. This is not because it has taken my breath in the face of the change in the name of SPZ in the center for inclusive and special education, but because I have a new breathing device and even people and machines have to play together properly. It is probably also in inclusion and special pedagogy: two different models, however, which belong together. In this respect, this name change is also an external sign, but also a call to the SPZs to further develop towards common education. As part of a study in Germany, it has been shown that disabled children are best promoted in the common class. However, a changeover is only successful step by step, as in Reutte in Tyrol – the example was mentioned – where it took four years. Another example is currently being shown in Vienna, where the special school in the sky is converted into an inclusion school, and this insecures the parents when it happens from today to tomorrow. They have legitimate fears that disabled children will no longer be included in the regular school system or that they will receive a worse promotion. It is therefore important to promote this further development of the SPZs. And I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, and encourage you to set up a fixed working group in the ministry, with the addition of experts in science and education, but also of parents and representatives of disabled organisations, because such a further development needs discussion, must be well planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25632	Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25654	President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. Minister! High house! The discussion so far has made it clear what function special educational centres have. In those schools which are not special schools, they provide special educational measures and coordinate them. Thus, these centres serve to implement inclusive measures for pupils with special educational needs. It is therefore not only obvious in the sense of the matter, but also an important external sign for more inclusion that the Social Democratic Group, together with the ÖVP, makes the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We would ask you to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25728	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25814	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25836	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The issue today is administrative simplification and quality assurance. We've heard it many times today: The abolition of the district school councils has been necessary and is certainly not the great throw, but absolute the right way in the right direction. I can report from Upper Austria: We've already abolished four district school councils. The future education managers, as I believe, stand for quality in educational education and also in the school organisation. I would like to say the following about language promotions: I am very pleased that the government template shows that the discussions on language promotions have been so successful. I would also like to support the opposition's view that it is a success that we now have funding beyond the two years that ensures planning security. Language promotion courses are an essential point for the integration of children who do not have German as their mother tongue. Cooperation between schools and kindergartens is of particular importance in these language promotions. I am pleased, Mrs Federal Minister, that you also want to strengthen the schools of the people and promote the transition from kindergartens to public schools. I am already looking forward to a draft law on this subject, which we can then discuss here in Parliament. Now I would also like to say something to the public schools. Mrs Bundesminister, you have just cited an example from Switzerland, where it has been a matter of pooling schools. In this context, I would like to recommend a study by TU Dresden, in which it has been intensively discussed with smaller schools, which are about integration and bad structures. This is especially a warning against centralization in primary schools in rural areas, because this leads to our children becoming commuters at school and then to commuting to the workplace and leaving their villages. In this sense, I hope for a good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25875	Mr Elmar Mayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25899	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What's so beautiful? – Not for school, but for life we learn! I believe that all the points we are deciding on here today are actually in the right direction and support them. We have long recognized – therefore also the education standards – that the acquisition of basic skills reading, writing, computing and also free speech are the crucial prerequisites for having a corresponding school success and thus also a corresponding professional and social success that everyone wants. That requires these basic competences. With the help of free speech, I can talk accordingly. If I can't read, I can't solve the calculation tasks either. These things are related. I am pleased that the Minister's attention is very much focused on the fact that there are fewer tests beyond what schools are already doing on schoolwork and testing. I mean PIRLS, PISA, TIMSS and what else there is, ICT tests and education standards. The teachers also say: What do you want? Let's work at last! There's also a lot in what we're doing here today. It is, of course, very important to support the promotion of language, but, ladies and gentlemen, it will be crucial that we finally make the decision. take the step towards full day care, because if you ask – and I don't need a study there – the teachers ask: What helps the children best to become powerful in the language?, so one hears that it is best when children are with children. It's like this: Children learn best from children. It's also the same with the inclusion. If children, like children of course, grow up with disabilities, are taught together, this social relationship is a matter of course. That is why we have to take the fears of doing so, and I believe that these two laws are sensitive. I am pleased – I would like to stress this – that those who are on the right path with us, both greens and NEOS, who want to do the best in the direction of school autonomy, towards greater self responsibility, towards strengthening the school lines, towards strengthening basic competences, towards free design, towards free development, to go along today and set a sign in the sense of: Yes, what goes in the right direction is supported and is not blocked and different things are not simply selected! I am also pleased that we are now taking a decisive step in the field of inclusion. This is more than just a change of signs, which also means restructuring in the individual areas. Thanks again for this broad support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e25955	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 141 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Grossmann, Mr Jank, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Since the present draft law and the amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Grossmann, Jank, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning the constitutional provisions in Article 2. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall immediately vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the introduction of a mandatory language level survey before entry into primary school in children with migrant backgrounds. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walser, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is not the majority and is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on Centres for Inclusive Education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is not the majority and therefore does not agree. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walser, fellow Members, on the implementation of Article 24 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on improving the quality of school life by means of objective selection procedures for headmasters and the promotion of teacher training. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is not the majority and therefore does not agree. [[21:37:43]] 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2012/8 (III-10/173 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2011/11 (III-6/174 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2013/1 (III-14/175 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26135	We shall now proceed to items 22 to 24 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26162	Madam President. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors, at the request of the Greens, reviewed the privatisation of the Dorotheum. In 1998, the Dorotheum was transferred from the property of the Republic of Austria to the property of ÖIAG, with the aim of privatising it. The amendment of the ÖIAG Act in May 2000 lifted the privatisation contract. The new ÖIAG Act only generally regulated future privatisations for the entire legislative period exclusively by the ÖIAG. That is to say, with this new legal situation, the Federal Government merely defined which companies are to be privatised, it gave up the right to accept the individual privatisation concepts, and also recommends the obligation of approval of the general meeting of the ÖIAG and the obligation to report to the main committee of the National Council. The Minister of Finance only had to report to the Federal Government on the implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, these were, as it were, the conditions that led to those machinations that have become the moral image of the era grasser! The Court of Auditors' report on the privatisation of the Dorotheum reads like an economic crime: Corruption suspect, friendly economy, fraud at state resources. A Steering Committee was set up which had the power of decision, there were no minutes of results of the Steering Committee meetings. The Court of Auditors did not understand how the decision could be taken. Yes, even the reason why bidders were excluded was not inconceivable. Sales revenue for the Dorotheum amounted to € 70.57 million, amounted to € 10 to 20 million under the sales recommendation of the embedded investment bank. After deduction of the privatisation cost of € 3.03 million, the federal government remained a proceeds of 67.54 million. To the damage of the Republic, the buyer's ÖIAG met once again by changing the legal form of the Dorotheum from a GmbH to a GmbH & Co KG, which brought the buyer tax advantages of € 16.9 million. That is, the total proceeds for the federal government melted to € 50.6 million. The transport value of the Dorotheum's real estate was estimated at €48.7 million in 2001, the buyer of the Dorotheum sold 8 of 13 real estates by €42.1 million in mid-2002. Ladies and gentlemen, the magazine ‘FORMAT’, which, in its issue of 20.6.2012, presents the Court of Auditors report on the Dorotheum sale of the police report of 28.7.2011, provides the suspicion that illegal commissions have flown. In connection with the sale of the Dorotheum, the “FORMAT” also refers to money transfers from Vienna to Vaduz. I quote from the above-mentioned magazine: "The numerous parallels to the 2004 Scandalum-witted Bouwog privatization are striking at the auction house deal: A thin advantage helped to win; Walter Meischberger, Ernst Plech and Peter Hochegger mixed in the background; and dubious cash deposits on Liechtenstein's accounts complete the picture." Ladies and gentlemen, the whole is now ten years behind. What we need to learn from it is: Never again an era of Karl-Heinz Grasser! Never again the economy of friends, corruption and fraud at state resources! If you want, never again black-blue! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26221	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26242	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Mayer has now very critically presented this privatisation process of the Dorotheum, where the three areas of auctions, jewelry and pledges were examined. This report is very critical, and it simply shows that the privatisation proceeds have just been lowered, between 10 and 20 million. The cost of privatisation of 3.03 million was also unusually high, and there has been an estimated decrease of 16.9 million. The course of this privatisation was certainly marked by the fact that the vote has completely failed. Cannot evaluate due to lack of documentation. bidders were excreted, and the ceremony of the offers was not comprehensible. But in spite of all criticism, considering this, this privatisation was an important and necessary step. [[Abg. Moser: That would have been possible anyway!]] The Dorotheum has seen a very positive development since privatisation between 2000 and 2010. The operating result multiplied from 1.94 million to 18.45 million, and the annual profit rose from 3.61 million to 9.28 million in the same period. Overall, I think, the proceeds and proceeds are quite within the scope. The procedure could have run better. I think you've been able to learn from it. Another report in this collection report deals with ASFINAG Bau Management GmbH. This is about the construction of the second tunnel tube of the Tauerntunnel. We did not discuss this report in committee. The Court of Auditors of the ASFINAG gives a very positive witness as regards the planning, tendering, awarding, organisation and construction process. There has been a professional and economic project. In general, I believe, it is also important that there are projects again, but it is very rare where construction costs could be reduced by professional construction management, in the case of 109 million to 104 million. Overall, the ASFINAG has just taken into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors from earlier years and learned from past mistakes. So, as a whole, a critical report, but certainly within the framework of the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26277	I call Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26298	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Yes, somehow I have always been amazed at how elegant the ÖVP is trying to steal from responsibility and actually wipe away figures that lie on the table so elegantly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] I am already with Mr Mayer, who has analysed the whole report. You can even put a little bit on it, Mr Mayer, because if you get the whole numbers, you've been talking about sales revenue at €70 million. Less privatisation costs, less the tax advantages mentioned by the re-establishment, remain 50 million. Then the 42 million from the real estate sales would have to be offset, and then the Republic actually has a business of €8 million, roughly now, which in the following years has made a great increase in profits. I mean, that's bound by merciless stupidity, I say now, that's the one variant or the one possibility. On the other hand – which is obvious in this case, because I would not now put under any stupidity that deals with such procedures – it is very much the suspicion that you have also raised, that of criminal energy, which is behind it. Because one thing is clear: Every private enterprise in need of renovation is analysed from the outset, as the substance is determined, a profit is calculated which results from the proceeds or from the operating result. Now I think, you can't be so diletantic either in this republic, that you can't find the right people who can evaluate and calculate it. So for me, the suspicion is that something has flown around the back, already very strong in the room. But, my colleague, Mr Mayer, the conclusion that you are drawing, never again black-blue, I know that you are referring to Grasser, here I am with you, but I say to you one: [[Abg. Moser: He's right!]] The grass was never a blue one, it was always a blue one that landed on an ÖVP ticket where we now know he is.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26379	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26400	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors now deserves reacknowledging peace, so that we can appreciate the various very, very valuable reports of our control body in a targeted and serious way. I would like to thank the President personally for the report on the privatisation of the Dorotheum, which was a report at the request of the Greens. At that time, in 2007, 2008, even earlier, in 2002, when the black and blue government existed, I had the suspicion that in various shops, not only was criminal energy at work, but these transactions were also very heavy to the Republic, and that private individuals, perhaps in the highest ranks, enriched themselves. I can now tell you the story of the privatization of the dorotheum in the form of a small one – how to say? ................................................................................................................................................. Imagine, you have an investment bank, and it appreciates your business and the real estate that join together in the Dorotheum Consortium, at € 112 million. Then you'll find a buyer, a buyer consortium on the way – I still explain that. At least that pays €70.6 million, but you have already given up the difference of €40 million. It would have been possible to win these too. Yes, there was even an international bidder, a foreign, an American bidder who paid 84 million. However, the discussions with the management of the Dorotheum have left him more or less away from this offer because he thought the management is not able to conduct the operation as he imagines it. It may also be – this is a suspect moment – that the management of the Dorotheum at that time deliberately precipitated something, so that the bidder who pays €84 million does not attempt to do so, because this management may already have had relations with another bidder and this other bidder may have assured the management that it will stay at work and even get a premium. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Aware!]] That's how it was. The management of the Dorotheum also received a premium. – Good, so Phase 1: As a Republic, although there is a better bidder, they receive only 70.6 million, although the company is worth 112 million. Phase 2: This bidder, which, in any case, is worth €40 million, is still able to set up a company that can be re-founded into a GmbH & Co KG before the bid procedure, I think, almost a month before the bid procedure, and then the Dorotheum is to be picked up. That's exciting. This bidder consortium is so refined to make all the arrangements that a form of society is then chosen that makes it impossible for the Republic of Austria to use 16.9 million tax money. This new form of society is, as it were, missing the Republic, and it is even officially possible to establish it by means of a skillful foundation. The Republic escapes € 16.9 million. That is why Mr Mayer rightly said that we did not take 70 million, but only 50.2 million. Now, however, this society, this consortium, which is really – you have to determine almost with envy – done according to a very accredited master plan, there must have even been some kind of mastermind, able to immediately – immediately!, as Mr Mayer has already explained – get out of the 13 real estate 8 which favours it, therefore the 16.9, then also into a society, to sell them then, and already 42.2 million € of the 70 million are back inside. You have to imagine that! And then the Clou comes: Two years later, these properties will be bought back, not by 40 million, but by 68 million euros. So there's something in the bush somehow. In addition: The buyer of these eight real estates, Immofind Petrikovics, then sells again and is also the third partner in the bidder consortium. And now I'm finally putting the cards on the table: A partner of the consortium is called Soravia, the other is Digand and the third is then Petrikovics. And they now manage with this refined process that they are practically about – if one calculates it, the intermediate margin between what they have paid, minus the saved tax, minus the proceeds of eight real estates – to acquire 14.6 million of this consortium – 14.6 million for what was originally worth112 million and has been estimated in this way. They get that by 14, that's 10 percent. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, they ultimately pay slightly more than 10 percent of what it is worth. And then, Mr Gahr, I would like to say very ironically, Mr President, that the success of the company, the Dorotheum, is very ironic. It was already in restructuring before the purchase took place. It was already in restructuring. There was a 75 percent better operating result and an increase of 175 percent. I mean, this wasn't just a hit, it wasn't just a lucky hit, it was a jackpot – a jackpot at the cost of the Republic by a consortium of Soravia, Digand and Petrikovics. Who made this sale? – And with that I now stretch the bow into the present. Under whose fit was this beak possible? Under what conditions or by whom has the Republic been allowed to cut itself in the way, so I say almost over the ear, that is harmless, cheating is wrong, for that has all been done by law? It was only what my colleague, Mr Zanger, pointed out, was just too hairy to see how much money the Republic has given up. And who was that? Who was that responsible? - ÖIAG! The ÖIAG takes the most expensive investment bank, not checked at all, has only once allowed the privatisation committee to meet, has no transparent documentation, it is no longer understandable why one takes the most expensive investment bank, has failed to inform the Republic at all that 16.9 million tax savings are now being made at the expense of the Republic, has not found this necessary. Then they are content with a bidder who, more or less, brings these comparatively small 14.6 million sheep into the dry. - ÖIAG! And why is that possible? – Because Black and Blue have adopted an ÖIAG law, where the Republic, where the Ministry of Finance has no means of influence, where Parliament has no control. And this ÖIAG with this ÖIAG law, which you still haven't changed, where we already see three, four, five needs to change it, this ÖIAG still has no documentation standards that prevent such sales actions. This may still be possible that the ÖIAG operates as at the Dorotheum: to lubricate a little more than 10 percent of the value of the sold! Now I tell you why this is so critical: because, according to Mr Spindelegger, these ÖIAGs, in the current legal form, are also supposed to carry out the treatment of the hypo potential. Within ÖIAG, this resolution company is to be placed. And what do you want? You're going to make it? How will the remaining hypo potential then likely be re-inhibited? Then who makes his cut again? If the same methods – I hope others will – are used when working with the same transparency when there is no documentation again, then the tax payer will be charged again, then the Republic's assets will be thrown away again. In order to prevent this, there are requests from us, requests for amendments to the ÖIAG Act, applications for greater transparency, and requests to ensure that taxpayers, people and the population of Austria are not constantly betrayed for their assets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26442	Mrs Schenk has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26463	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a quote from a chapter of the Court of Auditors' report which we discussed in the Committee last week on the benefits of corporate tax law. I would therefore like to use this quote because it is simpto- It is a matter for the government and the government's action can also be determined with this quote. The quote is: “There was a lack of detailed and comprehensive knowledge of the effects of all benefits in corporate tax law, both of the legislator and of the Federal Government and, in particular, of the BMF, the necessary basis for political decisions.” This, ladies and gentlemen, moves like a red thread and a black thread through many areas, which the Court of Auditors is gratefully aware of over and over again. The Secretary of State mentioned in the Committee that he is well aware of the responsibility to deal with the tax money carefully and sparingly. But, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, how can it then be that the administrative burden for carrying out the benefits in corporate tax law was not known in the absence of separate records, nor was there a comprehensive and systematic approach to these benefits, let alone concrete objectives and measurable criteria, nor were there any concrete contributions, sometimes not even estimates or high-end calculations? This, ladies and gentlemen, really needs to be addressed here. We will also debate this explicitly in the context of the next Court of Auditors report, because this report is not yet completed, there are still chapters that are still being discussed. But why have I made this introduction now and brought this quote? – Because that shows how budget holes are created and how tax money is simply not used effectively. And this is not about Peanuts, but about amounts in the millions – 450 million of them the Court of Auditors speaks, ladies and gentlemen. The privatisation of the Dorotheum has already been addressed by my previous speakers. That was not a good business for the Republic, it was already explained. There was unusually high privatisation costs of about €3 million. The estimated tax loss for the Minister of Finance amounted to € 16.9 million. Here, too, ÖIAG was in the game – it was already addressed – because ÖIAG was still responsible for the fact that the Dorotheum was converted from a GmbH to a GmbH & Co KG. Here, too, there has been a relatively low sales revenue, which my previous speakers have already carried out. At the time, the Ministry of Finance refused to make the ÖIAG mandatory. It was also discussed – Mr Moser has already mentioned – that the legal conditions are not present or have not been adequately changed. But the Secretary of State and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, would now be able to amend the ÖIAG Act, because if I remember correctly, it is also enshrined in the Government Convention that you want to make changes here. Only, until now, unfortunately, as in so many areas, nothing has happened. And with regard to the repeated recommendations of the Court of Auditors, precisely with regard to the lack of evaluations that do not take place, this is also a red and black thread. I could mention a lot of cross-sectoral examples here, but time is too short for that. I can only hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will also take up this criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously in order to achieve budget holes in the future. avoid and stop efficiency holes, because this is urgently necessary in the sense of Austrian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26524	Mr. Dr. Hable is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26545	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! We have heard a lot about Dorotheum. I would like to add or repeat a few things because it was really a very spectacular privatisation or sale process – spectacularly failed, I would like to say. Sales recommendation of the Investment Bank: 80 to 90 million; actual selling price: 70 million, minus a tax advantage of about 17 million, is the 50 million that remain for the Republic, rather than the 80 to 90. So at least €30 million has been placed in the sand. We've seen an opaque award process. The evaluation process has been outsourced to this very expensive investment bank, and this evaluation process has apparently not been documented and cannot therefore be understood. I wonder, of course: What did the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG do? What would they have been a function if they had outsourced the actual core tasks for which they were there? - Anyway. Then there have been evaluation opinions that have disappeared, twice in a row. Results protocols of the Steering Committee – where the relevant persons were sitting inside – were not available, reports the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a little mistake you can learn from. From my point of view, these are systematic mistakes, are systematic mismanagement, systematic sluggishing of public assets. In addition to the Dorotheum, I would also like to draw attention to another part of the Court of Auditors' report, namely the public relations of the ÖBB, also known as advertising. I wonder anyway – I have already mentioned this today –: Why does the public hand have to turn ads at all? In 2013 it was €200 million spent on ads! That's where you're wondering: Is it not possible for the ministries to hold a press conference or make a press release if they want to inform? What do they need the colorful pictures in the daily newspapers for? – €200 million, which could be saved relatively quickly. By the way, this is the ad affair that has ended an investigation committee, as we know. It is the ad affair in which the prosecutor did not feel like questioning all the relevant persons. This one then needed a little pressure to question even more people. And it is also the advertising affair in which the ÖBB has commented on the Court of Auditors' report as follows, and I would like to quote that now. The ÖBB said the following – quote –: “The campaign has clearly supported the company’s communication goals, the company has benefited from the support of the Minister in public and not vice versa.” – Quote. Go, go, go, go, go, So we're all driving the ÖBB because Chancellor Faymann is laughing from the newspaper. If one reads these Court of Auditors reports, I say quite openly, then it is often cold on one's back, whether this mismanagement, which is described here, is whether this potentially structural corruption. And that is why we in this country urgently need fresh wind, which ventilates this climate, consisting of mismanagement and – yes, I say so too, the suspicion very often suggests – also this suspicion of structural corruption. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26596	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26618	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! If the sale of the Dorotheum had to be explained to someone who had never heard of it before, this would be summarized in a sentence as follows: A first-grade corruption action, of which only the buyer benefited to the detriment of all taxpayers in our Republic. There has been enough need for explanation here, and even today this privatisation raises many questions, but also casts shadows. Accordingly, privatisation has also been strongly criticized by the Court of Auditors. First, the sale was made at an economically unfavourable time and was not a good business for the State. Secondly, sales revenues of around €70 million were 10 to 20 million below the sales recommendation of the Investment Bank. Thirdly, the sale process at the cost of € 3 million compared with other privatizations of ÖIAG was very cost-intensive. Fourthly, the €320 000 premiums for the two managing directors of the Dorotheum would certainly have been necessary. Fifth, the criteria for the withdrawal of bidders were not sufficiently documented and partly not understandable. These were some of the points of many that the Court of Auditors criticized. Most privatisations took place between 2000 and 2006. In total, we speak of €7.5 billion. For me, it is important that privatisation processes are analysed in advance and also considered critical. Finally, this concerns state ownership, the ownership of citizens, and there must be transparency here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26667	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26688	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are debating a total of twelve reports from the Court of Auditors today. I would like to deal with one of them, namely the one about the health of the students, the school-care service and the school-sychological service. This report was based on the reviews of the Oberösterreich and Salzburg National Schools Councils, as well as the Vienna City Schools Council and the Federal Ministries Council. riums for education, art and culture. Now to some of the Court's findings. The Court of Auditors sees a clear need for improvement in both the school and the school-sychological services. Why? – Because there is a strict separation between the debt health care allowed to the school doctors with the competence of the Ministry of Education on the one hand and health care in the field of competence of the Ministry of Health. In other words, if the school doctors examine the pupils or advise the teachers on health issues of the students, the Ministry of Education is responsible; however, if vaccination is performed, the Ministry of Health is competent because it is preventive vaccinations, which are therefore part of health care. It is found that the Ministry of Education for the Schools is responsible for Federal Schools – the general education of higher schools, AHS, and so on – and in compulsory schools, on the other hand, there are countries and communities. Summa summarum: The division of competence restricts efficiency and therefore calls on the Court of Auditors to remove the strict separation of school health care and health care, and the two competent ministries should intensify their cooperation in order to avoid due diligence. Another criticism of the Court of Auditors is the lack of an evaluation of the data from the students' annual series studies. The basic data, such as the size, age and weight of the respective student, as well as information on allergies, vision, neck, nose, ear, respiratory diseases, respiratory diseases and behavioural damage – I believe important data are related to child health. Unfortunately, they are not electronically recorded, not centrally collected and not analyzed. From my point of view, the lost information for Austrian health policy is. The Court of Auditors therefore also proposes more detailed rules on series of investigations, and the resulting data should be made available for health policy purposes – of course, in an anonymized form. Finally, I should like to say that both the Ministries, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, expressed their willingness to implement the Court of Auditors' suggestions accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26737	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26758	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to discuss a 2012 report on the public relations work of the ÖBB. The topic of public relations at the Austrian Federal Railways was discussed very intensively in 2012, also in the then ongoing investigation committee – this has already been addressed today. The fact that this report deals with a very complex subject is reflected not only in the 152 pages contained in this report but also in the opinions. the company itself, which has led to many findings within this report. The interested reader of this report is very quickly aware that public relations with the Austrian Federal Railways are not only the normal, classical advertising sector, but also 64 percent of the budget is spent on activities outside the normal advertising, i.e. classic sales agents, such as customer card management, complaint management, but also construction site information and information on timetable changes and the like. In the public balance sheet 2011 of the ÖBB Group, the total public expenditure of around €27 million is shown. In the Court of Auditors' report itself, a sum of 31 million is still assumed. Sales and direct customer contact are the major positions that this company of course also brings to an enormous level of communication. The ÖBB transport 460 million passengers every year, carry 6 300 trains daily, organize large infrastructure projects and are also responsible for the construction and reconstruction of railway stations and stops. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors made 22 recommendations in its Opinion. Many of these recommendations have already been implemented within the ÖBB. In the company itself, intensive work is being done to improve the structures and processes. These include new invitations to tender for advertising agencies and media agencies, as well as reductions and cancellations of sponsorship agreements and the setting of targets for action. Ladies and gentlemen, I am therefore convinced that the next review will consider these measures to be positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26809	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26831	Madam President. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! In my statement, I can concentrate on an audit report from the Court of Auditors on the Head of the Civil Society team. The headquarters team manages, as you know, the historic buildings for which the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible. The properties are used by federal departments, federal museums, but also by special users, such as the parliament, but also by private individuals. In addition, the Burghauptmannschaft operates the Bundesbad Alte Donau and also serves the telephone facilities of the federal government in the historical buildings. If you look at the dimension of the team, you can imagine what extensive processes and works are happening here. After all, around 550 individual objects are cared for, in which around 1 100 users are accommodated. Thus, in my native Tyrol Castle Ambras, the triumphal gates, but also the Hofburg are cared for. Here in Vienna, of course, there is a greater concentration: among other things, there are several palaces in which ministries are housed, the Belvedere, but also in Vienna there is a Hofburg. Interestingly, the Hofburg – and that will be the least known – is the largest interconnected civil complex in Europe. A total of 22 recommendations were made by the Court of Auditors. The special thing is: Already before the publication in November 2011 – and this is a bit very encouraging and I have not been accommodated in my six-year membership of the Court of Auditors Committee – 19 of these 22 recommendations have been implemented. There are still two recommendations, and one point has not yet been implemented and there will probably not be any implementation. To sum up, I am grateful to mention that the team of the castle is on an excellent path, and thus it is also ensured that our cultural heritage, for which we are world-famous, is in very good hands. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26873	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-10 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-6 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This too has been unanimously adopted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-14 of the supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This too has been unanimously adopted. [[22:20:05]] 25. Point Report of the People's Prosecution Committee on the 37th Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. (III-60/166 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26946	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hell is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e26974	Madam President. Mr. Volksanwälte! In two meetings of the People's Procuratorate Committee, we discussed the 2013 report. It is a very detailed report which has been presented to us here, which also impressively documents the activities of the public prosecutors. The activities of the People's Procuratorate are very diverse. It begins with the individual complaints, which, according to this report, have a maximum of over 19 000 complaints. ==References== A test procedure was initiated in 8,000 cases and identified weaknesses and potential for improvement. However, the constitutional task was also addressed to take on preventive tasks and to protect and promote respect for human rights and the rights of people with disabilities in Austria. This report also gives an overview of international activities and naturally also advises the legislator on legal changes. Ladies and gentlemen, this report presents the first results of the public prosecutor's and her Commission's preventive activities very compressed. This test competence in these areas has existed since July 2012. The Public Procuratorate shall entrust commissions to the examination to carry out these tasks in accordance with the OPCAT Enforcement Act. Six such commissions, filled with independent persons, are used throughout Austria and may also attract experts if necessary. In 2013, 530 control activities were carried out by the Commission, while social institutions such as old-age and care homes, deportations and police missions were reviewed. The Public Prosecutor's Office also stresses in its report that there is a great deal of good willingness to cooperate with the authorities and institutions themselves and that necessary measures and improvements have already been initiated or implemented. It is noted here that 234 shortcomings have already been corrected or that they are in implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Procuratorate as an institution has a very high priority in the population, but you, valued lawyers, and your employees, who carry out this work with very high quality and competence. I should like to thank you very much, on behalf of all, for this activity. I can also say “Thank you!” to our popular lawyer Dr. Günther Kräub, who has taken over the management of the International Ombudsman Institute since July 2013, whose headquarters is in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27035	Mr Sieber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27056	Madam President. Mrs Volksanwälte and Mr Volksanwälte! It is a pity that we cannot discuss this report until so later, because we are really discussing a success report here. [[Call: Voice]] In 2013, the Public Prosecutor's Office carried out 530 checks, holding 224 spokes all over Austria, and dealing with 19 249 interlocutory talks, which is a high level of long-term comparison, so it is up to people with advice and deed. For this immense work, I would like to say a warm “Thank you!” to the People’s Procuratorate, that is to say, our lawyers and all the employees who work in a competent manner for the people. In addition, I would like to expressly mention that all these works take place within the framework of the budget, which is not only remarkable, but also grateful in times like this. The highest and most important task of the People's Procuratorate is and remains, however, to be a contact for the population, and here it is especially the broadcasts of the Ombudsman in cooperation with the ORF, which lead to the watching people the whole range of the topics that concern the public prosecutor's office. A particular topic – and this, although the public prosecutorship is not really responsible for it – is the subject of the case-law. Ladies and gentlemen, over 60 000 people in our country are under the rule of law, and unfortunately it is not always the case that the persons in charge or their family members are satisfied with the circumstances. People are also constantly seeking advice from the public prosecutors, but in this area the public prosecutors have no opportunity to understand court cases, which makes an analysis more difficult. One problem, which is also repeatedly mentioned, is cases of law firms taking over the high number of law enforcement agencies. Also ours Disability spokesperson Franz-Joseph Huainigg has already pointed out this problem several times, but there is still a need for action. We need a legal regime to ensure that the appointment, management and implementation of authorities is monitored accordingly. In the context of such a regulation, we will also have to consider whether, in the future, the public prosecutor's office will also be consulted in those cases in which those concerned address it. I am convinced that even in these cases, the People's Procuratorate would be a good and trustworthy partner of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27093	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27114	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear People's Lawyers! As chairman of the People's Procuratorate Committee, I would also like to thank the people's lawyers and also the staff for the excellent report. The People's Procuratorate is very well accepted by the population. Last year, 19 249 persons addressed the public prosecutor's office with individual complaints in order to control the public administration. This is a 23 percent increase in complaints. Internal security has overtaken the number of cases in the field of social security, which is a novum. There have also been high increases in foreign and azylical complaints, and the asylum court is particularly affected. We have heard today that since July 2012 the public prosecutor's duties have also been extended to preventative protection of human rights, and there have already been 771 controls by the Commission. Examinations of complaints and auditing of the administration are the main tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This also reveals errors or errors in the administration, always seeking improvement through the National Council or the Federal Council. Since 1990, however, this possibility has been restricted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, as it has been deprived of audit competences by disseminating them. If the tasks of the It is no longer an administration within the meaning of Article 148a B-VG and the Public Prosecutor's Office is no longer responsible. But that can't be it now! We support the request to extend the public prosecutor's audit competence. We also discussed a joint committee with the Constitutional Committee on the last committee. I have also had talks with the chairman of the Constitutional Committee on this matter today, who has given me a very positive signal that we can do this in the autumn. I would also like to thank all those who are able to bring together a constructive, positive solution for the public prosecutor's office. I am sure that together we will come to a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27163	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27184	Madam President. Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! It is already part of the rite in Parliament that the public prosecutorship is praised in plenary – and I do not want to refuse to do so, I do so regularly – but with the extension of the competences related to the establishment of OPCAT committees, as we have experienced for a year now, I believe, we can indeed be proud. It is something like a sign of advanced democracy when, not only in Sunday's speeches, human rights are repeatedly conjured up, but their compliance is also examined and preventively controlled again and again, especially in those institutions in which people are held against their will and where the danger is particularly great that they are being treated in a humiliating way that they are exposed to violence, torture. These are especially hospitals, these are prisons, these are barrackss and so on. I think what is now in place with the first report indicates that there is really a lot of things going on. It is the unannounced samples that certainly contribute a lot to this, and it is certainly also the many small individual cases that have been listed, with which interventions have actually been achieved and have direct effect as well – how am I supposed to say? – Preventive effects have in the sense of self-censorship of institutions that learn that they behave better in order not to appear in the People's Prosecution Report, as should be the case with other bodies being examined. What I like in connection with the public prosecutor's activity is the increasing social policy statements made when, for example, there is an increasing risk of privatisation of state violence, and examples are mentioned. . It is, I think, very good that Parliament has an instrument here to point out these developments. Finally, let me repeat a concern that has been a concern to me since I was in the committee for about seven years, namely the further expansion of control possibilities and test skills towards distributed companies that are owned by the federal government or more or less dependent on the state within the meaning of the principle of the extended arm. I believe that any exclusion automatically reduces democratically legitimate control, in particular parliamentary control, and if citizens can't complain anywhere, because the tasks that should be given to these institutions are not met This is already a deficit which does not necessarily need to be continued. Everything that the Court of Auditors is examining – in terms of content – should be possible to examine the economic sustainability of the Court of Auditors – in the case of the People's Procuratorate. Two thirds of all European countries have this control option of distributed companies, and we should join them as soon as possible. Perhaps you can say something about it, dear lawyers, Mrs Volksanwälter. The more that happens in this direction, the faster something might come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27232	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27254	Madam President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Dear People's Lawyers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! 19 249 complaints, 8 003 test procedures, 1 444 identified defects, 530 preventive controls. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these figures can be seen, and I also thank the lawyers here for the good, important and right work they do for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] My previous speakers have already mentioned a number of things from the comprehensive report. I do not want to repeat everything, but to sum up a few points that are important to me. The top-ranking area was internal security with 27 percent of the test procedures, a quarter was social, 18 percent were justice, and the 19 249 complaints resulted in an increase in cases of 23 percent compared to the previous year. So the public prosecutor's office has never had as many complaints as last year. That, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, is also a sign for all of us – including a job assignment to the government parties in particular – that in the public administration everything is not so smooth, for otherwise there would be no such number of complaints and so many abuses as the People's Procuratorate shows in this report. Massive abuses have been shown in the area of home care and care, especially by the administration of psychopharmaka in the care sector, so this is a major problem. However, this is also a major problem in the hospital sector, especially with regard to the sleeping equipment, as patients are being calmed down more or less so that the employees who are overburdened have their rest in the evening. But that then draws a rat's tail of complications for the patients, because they need at home, of course, these means – you will easily become dependent on them – and this is generally also a major problem that you might also need to address in the health field. Furthermore, the youth welfare facilities have also been carefully illuminated and criticized. There are also massive abuses there, and we all have to work to implement the proposals – including the legislative proposals – of the People's Procuratorate. But if I look at the state of implementation, I have to say that it is very sluggish. We all need to see that the recommendations are implemented with respect to the legislative proposals faster, more efficient and faster. It has already been mentioned the extension of competence in the area, including the right to speak of the national lawyers in the Landtag. In this respect, there is a roadmap; the chairman of the Committee has briefly quoted it. There may be a joint committee with the Constitutional Committee, where we will also discuss this proposal by the Greens, which was discussed in the last committee. The government parties have postponed this request again, including the indication that a legislative proposal is already to be drawn up in this respect. I am very brave and curious about this proposal for a law, if we can then discuss it here and hopefully we can vote positively on it even in this year in the sense of the People's Procuratorate and in the sense of the Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27305	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27326	Madam President. Dear Advocate! Dear People's Lawyers! High house! I also wanted to say: Dear citizens!, but there are no longer, as I fear, in front of the televisions. They all watch football and we're among us, so to speak. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I would like to join my previous speakers and thank the People's Procuratorate for the excellent work on the ground in the form of hundreds of reviews and observations by the Volksanwälte, the Volksanwälter and her commissions. I believe that this work is an essential contribution to a genuine rule of law. This is evident in particular from the marked increase in the number of complaints: For the nearly 20,000 people who turned to the People's Procuratorate in 2013, you, admirable lawyers, were the test of real, living rule of law. On behalf of these 20,000 citizens, I would like to thank you once again! But I think that the effect of the public prosecutorship goes far beyond the actual checks, observations and investigations. The existence of the People's Prosecution alone, as I believe, has a beneficial preventive effect on the activities of the administration. This is perhaps the greatest merit of the People's Procuratorate, which, although not visible, cannot be shed in a report, but is no less significant. However, the effect of the People's Procuratorate also strongly depends on a very different essential factor, namely the willingness to cooperate and the ability to act in the administration, and there we clearly locate the need for improvement. My speaking time is already going to the end, I will just give an example, namely the high current case of the first recording centre of Traiskirchen. In its report, the People's Procuratorate strongly pointed out – I quote, page 116 – “partly gross human rights violations in refugee shelters”. She also reports on page 119: "The VA recommended that the BMI ensure that all federal states fulfil their tasks under the Basic Supply Agreement Art. 15a fulfil B-VG and ensure the provision of asylum seekers in decent accommodation." And yet the mayor of Traiskirchen had to turn on the People's Procuratorate two weeks ago, due to inhumane conditions in the first recording center. The question arises why this government is not willing or unable to finally enforce the agreement with the federal states. The truth is that this Article 15a agreement is a toothless and sanctionless instrument, as are so many other articles-15a agreements. Mrs Minister's appeal to the national leaders to make further quarters available is becoming increasingly pathetic. The truth is that the Land Princes in this country ride sleds with this federal government. All, with the exception of Lower Austria and Vienna, are driving sleds with the Federal Minister for the Interior. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Kärnten rides Schlitten with the Minister of Finance. Vienna is driving Schlitten with the Minister of Social Affairs, and all are driving sleds with the poor family minister in matters of childcare. That is to say, the insufficient response of the Federal Ministry of the Interior to the public prosecutor's instructions regarding the standards in the basic provision of asylum seekers is not a coincidence, not an excuse. It is the result of a federalism understanding degenerated to the perversion, up to the disability of the People's Procuratorate. Therefore, according to the opening words of thanks, the public prosecutor's office last at this late hour: Good luck, a lot of courage, a lot of strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27397	Mr Vavrik, only for information: From a certain time, the gallery is always closed, and our listeners, whose number is getting smaller at a later hour, are invited to sit at the balcony, and there are two more that I warmly welcome. [[General condolences.]] Mr Kirchgatterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27427	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the new public prosecutor's role in protecting and promoting human rights through preventive controls is a quantum leap. This is for the Austrians, for the people in our country since the introduction of the People's Procuratorate under Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky, the most effective development. The large number of unannounced controls carried out during the first reporting period, for example in public and private children's, old-age, detention, psychosocial and disability facilities, shows how important these are. The members of the control committees enjoy a very high reputation. In the new Human Rights Advisory Council, NGOs are very well represented. Ladies and gentlemen! The found maladies are recorded, each individual case is a human fate! It is about promoting awareness-building in all sensitive areas, strengthening the importance of human rights, strengthening and anchoring them as fully as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian contribution to the International Ombudsman Institute with its seat in Vienna is very effective with very low resources. The Secretary-General from Austria, Dr. Günther Herbe, has already been mentioned. These independent bodies are networked from 90 countries, from all continents. Commitment to democracy and rule of law is very good for a neutral state like Austria. I thank the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27478	Mr Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27500	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! When the implementation of the Convention on Torture and the idea was born, it was possible to establish the OPCAT implementation, the OPCAT agreement at the public prosecutor's office, not everywhere, but there were massive critical voices in this regard. But I have always used myself very much for this, and from today's point of view, we know that's a success story. The Commission's preventive work has already been mentioned. Commissions, with high professional competence in various areas, have the task of taking a preventive look at whether accommodation facilities are also decent and the persons concerned are treated accordingly. It is not possible for all control activities to be found that God is grateful to God, but misconceptions will then be passed on to the Volksanwälte and the Volksanwälter, and there will then be included in the People's Prosecution Report, or the authorities will be instructed to stop these abuses. The joint action between the Commissions and the Public Procuratorate has taken place since July 2012 and is a completely new activity. The fact that the Human Rights Advisory Board has also emigrated to the People's Procuratorate and is a consultative body there is a very good thing and, as Mr Zinggl has already mentioned, worthy of a developed democracy and an example of best practice. I very much welcome the expansion of competence that the People's Procuratorate can also accept the complaints of the citizens when it comes to distributed establishments, which are 100% owned by a local authority. I first had the cases in my time as a Volksanwälter, where, for example, certain maladministrations occurred at the cemetery administration in Vienna. Then this cemetery administration was transferred to a GesmbH, and the public prosecutor's office was no longer responsible. The citizens did not understand why they could come before and no longer afterwards. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is just like the management you meant at a holding company! That's exactly that!]] No, Mr Rosenkranz, you have misunderstanded me, I do not want to integrate and manage the People's Procuratorate into the resorts, but it is because of the fact that we should not let the cultural institutions be managed by the officials of the resorts, but that they should be managed. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The city of Vienna withdraws control!]] The principle as such that the public prosecutor's competence should be extended to distributed institutions, like the Court of Auditors, I welcome. Both the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate are institutions of Parliament. Therefore, the cases should be treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27562	Mrs. Dr. Winter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27583	Madam President. Mr. Volksanwälte! Dear colleagues! If you were to film a film about the People’s Procuratorate, you could give it the title “37 Years of Success Story Public Procuratorship. ” What is the basis for this confidence? – I think that there is a very consistent, honest and open work with the citizens. On the other hand, if you look at the government's values of trust, it looks a little worse. And this very discrepancy has led me to consider the following. Time and again, I hear from representatives of the government parties that they are unlikely to be proud that in the period 2012 to 2013, almost 23 percent of complaints, i.e. this ominous number of more than 19 000 complaints, have been addressed to the public prosecutor's office. It can't be that this is regarded as a success, because these complaints are complaints within the framework of the administration. What's the administration? – The administration is a result of what is made in laws. That is to say, you should actually come in front of your own door and refer a large part to yourself and try to change something and find new ways of dealing with the population, I would say. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] There would be very good regulation, both the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate. Unfortunately, however, one tries to push these into their role again and again, and does not give them any corresponding skills, so that the population can actually benefit from it. There are still some very great suggestions, which already result from the Second World War. This is all that has to do with these bombarders, where the public prosecutor has already made some suggestions in this respect, but there is still no legislative change. And a second thing, which I think, for my terms at least, is very exciting to the public and actually intervenes in the public, private conditions, would be very positive in this case, namely if one were finally to take care of the rights of victims in the Waffenrechtsprocedure. Victims of crimes have both rights of information and of expression. But if someone was a victim of a crime with a weapon, he would not even have a role to play in the arms proceedings, which is inexplicable. And I think that's just changed and made new. I really hope that there will be more rights for the public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27636	Mrs Kucharovich has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27657	Madam President. Estimated People's Lawyers! I would like to speak on two subjects today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The report points to inequalities between students at universities and colleges. It deals specifically with the field of the communication of negative notes. If a student is going to have a negative assessment at a university, a notice will be issued to him or her, only a written notice at a university. The difference is, in the case of a notice, an objection can be raised, not in the case of the written communication. Thus, FH students lack legal enforcement. And that is why I believe that we, namely, we legislators, should quickly accept this inequality of treatment and clear it out in forests. This is also stimulated by the People's Procuratorate. On the other hand, I would like to explain a problem that you will not find in the report, which we have also discussed in the Committee and which has also been confirmed by the lawyers. We recently discussed the Federal Children's and Youth Aid Act here in the house, in the plenary session, keyword 18 plus. Young people over the age of 18 do not automatically have the right to remain in youth welfare facilities. At the time of the negotiation, it was possible to reach an agreement on a can-determination in the law. But this does not really help some young people. The federal states hold this or act quite differently. From Lower Austria, for example, I am aware of self-imposed criteria aimed at a positive degree of education. This could also mean that if you just have a pendant in your teaching, you might have to get out of your own four walls, for example, in the SOS Children's Village. This leaves young people standing in the rain. And I don't think that's gonna happen to anyone of us. That is why my urgent appeal and also my request to the Minister for Youth to look at this and bring about solutions so that we can really support young people where they need us. Finally, I would like to say the following: There's a lot of people a year visiting the People's Procuratorate. But I think that just younger people don't know the public prosecutor's office so well. And I would simply like to suggest at this point that we make more targeted initiatives, perhaps also common ones, so that young people also know about the People's Procuratorate and see them as a contact person. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27699	Mr Hechtl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27721	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, the 2013 activity report reflects, in a classic way, the large scope of the public prosecutor's office and clearly expresses it. We have already heard that this activity report is a success report, which is due to the good work of the Public Prosecutor's Office and its employees and their professional expertise. Yes, this balance sheet is still underlined by the fact that the inflow increased that 23 percent more people have visited the public prosecutor's office to see To present and request help. This confirms the great confidence of the population in the public prosecutor's office, which carries out a wide range of tasks in its auditing activities. I may call here just one, the examination of psychiatric institutions and the subsequent settlement of structural defects. It is also worth mentioning the assistance provided, for example, in the case of the exemption from care or in the case of unemployment benefits et cetera. I would just like to say that clearly reaffirms the diversity of the public prosecutor's work and the high level of competence that the people have given her. I would also like to thank the People's Procuratorate and its employees very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27763	Next speaker: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27784	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! As we have already heard, the number of individual complaints of the citizens has increased significantly to the public prosecutor's office. Regardless of individual complaints, there are other issues that have been addressed to the public prosecutors, for example, as has already been said, human rights and the right to health. As regards human rights, a National Action Plan of the Federal Government will be available or prepared in 2015 under the participation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As has already been known from media reports, there will also be overfilling in Traiskirchen, Thalham and so on, as regards decent accommodation. In the field of health, which Mrs Schenk has already mentioned, psychopharmaca and so on are an important issue. This is the British study, where more than 50 percent of patients are affected in Germany, but more than 74 percent in Austria – and not quite insignificant. I would perhaps like to translate Mrs Winter's contribution a little bit more comprehensible with a little bit of a wink. I would also like to congratulate the People's Procuratorate on the fact that it has obviously managed to deal with citizens' concerns somewhat more sympathetically, if one gives faith to the public debate than we do here in the House. Finally, I should like to thank the public prosecutors for their commitment to the Austrian population and their contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27822	Mr Lausch is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27843	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs. Volksanwalt! Estimated Volksanwälte! High house! First of all, thank you and respect for this very good, comprehensive report. I would like to ask you to pass on your thanks to the people's attorneys. The report is very comprehensive and shows very precisely what it is really all about. And if you get the report More precisely, one sees quite clearly what it is mostly ill with, and that is notorious staff shortage, for example in the youth home that has been checked. Many abuses could have been stopped, but there are too few staff. To the judicial authorities: The lack of staff in the execution centres leads to longer periods of imprisonment of prisoners and an inadequate number of jobs. There is also a lack of personnel for the care of young prisoners. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Then let's go on: Police, doctors also not available, too few staff. I think the report is very, very good, wonderful and clearly shows what is lacking. And I hope that this will become clear to the Austrian Federal Government at some point that, of course, there will always be problems, shortcomings, shortcomings in the case of state or country organisations or local authorities, if the workforce is too low. If one does not fulfill the personal cover, then it is simply clear that there has to be misunderstandings, and that belongs naturally discontinued. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you should take money and provide personnel resources, then the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which are very, very good and very, very nice, even better and even more beautiful – and a little thinner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27894	Mr. Volksanwalt spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27916	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The College, we three, we have completed 44 years as a parliamentarian in total, and therefore we know very well that longer speeches are not particularly popular at this time. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to thank you very much for the praises that I am very happy to pass on to the employees. Please take this report as a guide to improvements in politics and administration, but also as a wake-up call as regards the National Prevention Mechanism, because in many institutions we have encountered alarming conditions. This, as I believe, is a very, very important common concern. Finally, I would like to thank you for the really very meaningful and committed discussion at the two committee meetings, which was very important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27952	Ms. Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, spoke as next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e27973	Mr President. High house! I, too, want to turn to you tight, but consistently and take a few aspects out. The SCI was addressed; it could almost be thought that this was a never-ending issue, but we are moving forward. I am very pleased that a very active, very dedicated working group has been set up in the Federal Ministry of Justice, which addresses all the things that the public prosecutor has long already done on the subject – rights of interest, family rights, asset management, and the use of resources. ing, duration, scope, expertise and all these things – correctly and comprehensiblely and in a language and procedure that is understandable to everyone. Part Two: National prevention mechanism, my area of enforcement. Both by examination and by national Prevention mechanism as well as testing and re-controling individual complaints have enabled us to eliminate many small and larger malaises. We were shocked and horrified by the fact that, despite careful examination and in spite of careful action by the Commissions, we were confronted with some of them. Never and never is quailry, neglect, to justify torture by any kind of lack. We have spoken clear words, an official examination has been started, and the public prosecutor's office will not allow it to be used in Sunday's speeches – as Mr Zinggl has said – but in weekly work to prove that we are the right people in the right place. I can open a secret: Two of the three gallery visitors are young employees of the People's Procuratorate who once wanted to see how Parliament thanked the staff. They are called Lisa Lubinger and Siniša Jovanović – I have said that now so that they can find themselves in the Minutes. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] One last thought, because Mrs Kucharovich's young people were addressed. Yes, we think that effective goals are very important. We turn to new and underrepresented groups in the People's Procuratorate – underrepresented in the sense of: maybe they don't know what we can do. I'm inviting you now: ==References== September we open our visitor centre, which is intended to draw the attention of young people, school classes and apprentices in particular, to the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office represents a modern democracy, namely a way to obtain legal protection, legal information – low-end, barrier-free and free. Thank you. We will continue our work and continue to be successful with the support of Parliament. - Have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e28025	Next speaker: Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e28046	Mr President. High house! I would call the People's Prosecution's Report, which you thankfully considered to be a kind of geognostic map of the Austrian administration. Control of enforcement is the task of Parliament. I would like to thank many times for the fact that, as has already been pointed out in the Committee by Members - Mr Gartelgruber and Mr Zinggl - that there is a gap in the competence of the public prosecutors, so that it is necessary to close this gap and to entrust the public prosecutors with the ability to examine the audit competence, in an analogous way to the Court of Auditors' ability in relation to distributed legal entities. We have already pointed out that we do not need an additional budget for this, but we can do so from the current state of this activity. I should like to point out that we have allowed ourselves to submit to all the groups of the House a legislative proposal which can and should be the basis for and should be the practical approach to the matter. I should like to ask the political groups to put in place an own-initiative proposal which would clearly be assigned to the Constitutional Committee in order to get the matter started. I would ask you not to wait for a government paper because enforcement control is part of parliamentary activity and this is to be a parliamentary project. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e28085	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word will not be desired by the rapporteur. We shall vote on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Committee to take note of this report III-60 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – That is unanimous. The application is therefore accepted. [[23:07:08]] 26. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (142d._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Market Regulation Act 2007 (168 d.b.) 27. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 84/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on reform of the Common Agricultural Policy 2014-2020 – Implementation in Austria I (169 d.b.) 28. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 312/A by Mr Harald Jannach, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the establishment of the Agricultural Markets Office (AMA Act 1992) (170 b.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e28156	We now come to points 26 to 28 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jannach is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e28183	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Market Regulation Act regulates the relevant parts for future agricultural policy, CAP, by 2020. We discussed this in detail in the Committee. I would like to address the two key points which we do not approve and which we will not agree to. On the one hand, this is the changeover to the regional model in a five-year transitional period. Only to illustrate: There are currently farms that receive a premium of €0.37 per hectare, and some get up to €6,823 per hectare – for the same area. This is to be converted into five years. We don't think that's gonna have to go faster, because if you're going to have a long time. The transition phase is marked by a sharp disadvantage for those who have now suffered less. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point concerns the upper limit, which we consider not to be very objective. A ceiling of €150 000 has been set for direct payments. Unfortunately, this is offset by a pass that you can fully count wages and social contributions before the ceiling comes to grip. That is where we wish for a more stringent procedure. It must also be taken into account that we finance agriculture from two pillars – first pillar direct payments, second pillar rural development – and in rural development we simply do not have a ceiling rule. We have also prepared a motion for a resolution on the fair distribution of agricultural support and its restrictions – I believe it will now be distributed – which I will explain in the key points. The Federal Government is invited to set a ceiling in the area of rural development, as it has been shown that very, very many societies and foundations benefit incredibly from these financial grants. That was it for the first time. You will not receive our consent to this market regulation law. We also offer that we agree to a referral request to discuss this matter in detail in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e28242	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach in the key points, which was also distributed or is being distributed in the hall, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e29937	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e29958	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today's market regulation law enables us, as the previous speaker has already announced, to implement significant parts of the European Union's common agricultural policy into national law. This is an important step, and we need to implement it quickly in order to give our farmers security from next year. That is why we will certainly not join the referral, because this would be irrational to our businesses. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This system rests on two pillars: These are the basic premium on the one hand and, on the other, the compensatory allowances, investment subsidies and the possibility of additional support for farmers in organic farming in their efforts. A significant part is the change from the historical model to the regional model, where there is an adjustment in several steps; within the next six years, the premiums will be adjusted. It is very important that this does not happen from today to tomorrow, but rather slowly, because a farm is not a screw factory that can be switched on and off as you want, but it is necessary to plan for the long term, and farmers deserve our trust and our responsibility that they can also look into the future accordingly. We constantly demand high standards and high quality of our products and are very proud that we can also present this in Austria. Of course, what's a little sad about me is when a gest-ist-geil-meal is created permanently, which is also shaken by consumer representatives – for example, by price comparisons with other countries. We have different standards in Austria, we have higher prices, and if you are constantly turning the price spiral down, then this is ultimately harmful to consumers, which should also finally be understood by the representatives of the Chamber of Workers. You should only look at the field of electrical stores and equipment vendors, where we now have a monopoly of individual representatives, because it is no longer possible to produce at certain prices. We certainly do not want that in agriculture. Sustainability is an important issue, but this must also be carried with the obligation to label. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We have many controls at the courts, at the premises, but – and this is an important task that one has to fulfil even more – ultimately carry out the control in the shelves, because not everywhere a red-and-white-red flag is on it is also red-and-white-red inside. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Steinbichler]] This should be better controlled, the label should be carefully examined. The only seal of quality we have in Austria, the AMA seal, ultimately gives the consumer the guarantee: born, raised and slaughtered in Austria. You can only stress that over and over again. If you look into the future, the social security of farms and the recognition that farmers experience in society are also very important, and therefore we have high rates of acquisition of farms. Many young farmers want to continue with God thanks to the farms. There is motivation, and it is also important to push ahead with investment. The package decided today by the Market Regulation contains the largest support programme for young farmers in Austria that we have ever had. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] This is what we need to support, in the end, in order to ensure security of supply in our country in order to continue to strengthen the agricultural economic factor for rural areas. This market order ensures stability for businesses that they will be able to operate stablely in Austria in the coming years, so that we can all find a covered table.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30033	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30062	Yes, water is important, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. [[Call at the SPÖ: Life-important!]] Federal Minister! Of course, colleagues are right: This is a very important agricultural package, an average of €693 million per year in direct payments for the coming years, 2014 to 2020, to farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important decision – around quarter after eleven at night, it's about 700 million. [[Call the ÖVP: Well prepared!]] So I think a debate on this funding system should have earned a more prominent place. [[Congratulation with the Greens, representatives of the FPÖ and the Directorate-General Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: We can't do everything at lunch...!]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Why would that be important? – Yes, why would that be important, colleague Wöinger? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] As social spokesperson, you need to know that social justice does not exist in the funding system – Mr Jannach said it completely correctly. It is an extremely unfair system for which you bear the responsibility for years; You from the ÖVP and you – unfortunately, I say so too – from the SPÖ, which always folds: Yes, yes, we are in favour of social justice!, but when it comes to the facts and when it comes to implementation, alibiactions are made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] I'll explain it to you. What is the current situation, ladies and gentlemen? – Mr Federal Minister, you know: 1 742 businesses in Austria are currently receiving more than € 1,000 premium per hectare, 62 farms even more than €4,000. – And you really want to divide the shift and the more just distribution over five years, five years to delay that these companies finally lose these privileges, which are unjustified?- Oh, my God! - That doesn't mean a farmer. Many small farmers receive significantly less premiums, less than 100 € per hectare, 17 percent of farms. – So this is unfair, Mr Federal Minister, and we would have expected you as a new minister to set a new impetus here, namely the impulse you indicated at the beginning. I was at the meeting of the Eco-Social Forum, where you wanted to put yourself in the series of Riegler and other colleagues. – Yes, Riegler has made a redistribution policy, Riegler has introduced a fertiliser levy at the time, Riegler has introduced a corn seed levy to produce justice to enable ecologisation, and other projects, such as more promoting organic farming. Yes, you would have had the opportunity! Why? – Because the European Union provides in the regulation that there can be a redistribution premium. Mr Preiner, where is the SPÖ's commitment? Where is your commitment to real redistribution, to rural jobs? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Darmann.]] These are exclusively lip confessions, lip confessions and nothing else! And that's, honestly, just too little. If you want to introduce justice in the agricultural policy, you have to speak plain text here. Mr Jannach has also supported this with a request that he has been distributed today, which some large businesses receive in subsidies – €400 000, €500 000 and more. None of these companies, which Mr Jannach has put forward in this request, will receive only one cent less support through your scheme, Mr Preiner, with a ceiling of €150 000 for direct payments. And then you sit down and talk about justice?- Oh, my God! – That’s incredible, that’s incredible! This is not understandable, no farmer, no farmer, no consumer. [[In the case of the Greens, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Meinl-Risinger.]] We will therefore agree to the referral request, as already discussed. There is also a systematic and legislative criticism of the Constitutional Service. The Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service criticises two specific points: First, paragraph 1 of the AMA grants a service monopoly to publish certain information. – This too should be discussed: the question of the transparency of the AMA data and the AMA Sanctions Catalogue. I have held discussions in recent days and heard that the new AMA Sanctions Catalogue will not be published again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is impossible! You can't work like that! The Constitutional Service also says that in paragraph 3, the regulatory empowerment was simply adopted in terms of content unchanged, but closer determination would be useful. It is therefore recommended that further determination be made. Mr Federal Minister, we want to know how you then want to implement the package in detail, just as it is actually presented to farmers in the funding process. We have not seen this in the Committee, that you want to do in a regulatory authority – we cannot judge it today. That is why we cannot give our consent to this law. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal on our own, which is rejected by the government groups. This is a pity because this proposal contained a number of very important points: the redistribution premium; also that the mother cows continue to receive a certain amount of support for suckler cows, because there are particularly strong cuts in this area; and also that the changeover to the new system until 1. January 2016 is scheduled to happen. You didn't agree. This is totally a pity, and it is actually a problem in that this historic opportunity of a genuine agricultural reform is not used. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply a historical problem: You will have to carry it, Minister of State, if in the next few years thousands of farmers will have to stop because they will no longer be able to live with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30158	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30179	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The current Market Regulation Act is based on the CAP, the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union for the new funding period 2015 to 2020. In our opinion, it is an important step towards greater distribution justice. I would also like to give this to my previous speaker as an answer to the seat. What is it about? We want to secure and strengthen the competitive situation of farmers in Austria for the future. We also want to ensure the sustainable supply of food in Austria, to ensure the farming of family farms and also to ensure sustainable protection of organic farming, organic farming in Austria. This is to be achieved by means of the new Market Regulation Act. What are the objectives of this new law on the market? – One thing is clear: The new regional support model is based on an EU directive. Here, this directive will be implemented in five steps by 2019, so that in 2019 we will achieve a single basic premium of €284 per hectare. Furthermore – and I would like to point out that weitem is more than what it seems to be, more than an alibi action – there is a small farmer rule in the new Market Regulations Act, with the small farmers having the possibility of easier access to funding to receive 1 250 € in premiums per year. It is also possible to participate in the funding system as early as 1.5 hectares. There has been no such thing in the past. It is estimated that around 30 000 farms benefit. Something very important and forward-looking is the promotion of young entrepreneurs. It is estimated that approximately 8,000 businesses will be able to secure the acquisitions of the next generation. 14 million € per year are available for this purpose. This is also an incentive for cross-border beginners in the agricultural sector, something new and forward-looking in this form. I believe that we have taken an important step. I should also like to mention the degression of direct payment entitlements, which starts to take effect from € 150 000. Here the government template originally provided 5 percent. At the end of the day, a 100 per cent degression has come about, of course, taking into account labour costs and social costs, as it is mainly about securing jobs in less structural rural areas. Every job here is important, necessary and valuable. This must also be mentioned publicly on this occasion. Value added must also be ensured in rural regions. I mentioned earlier that jobs must also be created in addition. Rural regions not only consist of farming alone, but also of a lot more. Through the degression, we want to save approximately €600 000 not only, but – and this is evident from the explanations in the government template – this money will benefit organic farming, Mr. Colleague, and direct marketing. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A large company has 600 000 €...!]] You probably forgot to mention this in your remarks earlier. Finally, it is also about the sustainable expansion of infrastructure in rural regions, including broadband development. That is why I urge the responsible Finance Minister, Spindelegger, to break his blockade on this issue, so that, on the basis of the decision we have here in the National Council on 23 December, we can now take a decision. On May, the last plenary day following the 2014 and 2015 budget decision, the funds for broadband development and thus for further attracting rural regions are also available and being released. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30216	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30237	Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, also on televisions and also on the gallery! I took two newspapers with me to this important item on the agenda, which – it has already been said – will be discussed at this day or night. I think he'd deserve a different time. But when I look at the “Kronen Zeitung” from Sunday – and this is very important, they read a lot of consumers – I would like to say: If a Niki Lauda, a Marcel Hirscher, also Mirjam Weichselbrun care about the quality of food, but then in the inner part, thank God also the Minister comes to speak double-sided, no, on three sides, then I am enthusiastic, Mr Minister, if you say: You are out of full conviction for high-quality products, also to export without worsening our high quality standards. And: Consumers should be able to rely on safe food. – I double-emphasize all of this! That's exactly the goal of our work, that's where we want to go. A little divergent is then already the “farmer newspaper”, one of the most important organs for how to misinformed the farmers. Then I am particularly affected, really affected! As a politician, I do not expect much from President Schultes, but from him as President of the Chamber of Agriculture, the representation of interests, where I too and my son pay compulsory membership contributions, I expect objectivity. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right, that's how it looks!]] When President Schultes writes in the “Farmerszeitung” that regionality is not a trend topic, I understand more and more why the practices in the slaughterhouses are running so smoothly. Of course, that's not regional, that's quite clear to me. We did this in the morning, I think, even in the field of tourism. I would like to thank the farmers who are currently working in the stables at these temperatures, ladies and gentlemen, on the spot, as I thanked the tourism companies and the host farmers on the morning. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] Once inside at 40 degrees to animals, once working at 40 degrees if the flies are a bit annoying – unlike the cold stress in winter, it is now the heat stress! I would ask anyone who expresses himself on animal husbandry to think about who does it: 365 days a year, twice a day, in the morning and in the evening! I live in the tourist area. Sometimes I think it's better anyway, because we're not as stressful as those who need to go home after a day of stress. That's up to everyone. But this work is not appreciated, and this is most disturbing to me in this programme, which is more taxed by the government – I have already said it to the Minister of Finance today – that we are again receiving increases in working time, in milk and meat, in livestock units. I think that injustices in recent years are simply continuing. Mr Minister, I have already said this today: The fraud label must be gone once and for all! And you, Hermann Schultes, as President of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture, have the task of caring for order here for farmers. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and Greens.]] I just think that's just the ability to enjoy. That says the number in the middle. I can also have it with the Polish and Dutch signs, then I know that has been slaughtered in Austria in the slaughterhouse. But everything else... [[Abg. Eßl: That's just as much...!]] Mr Eßl, you must protect your miners in particular! That would be the task for you as a mining president to bring in order here. One thing I'm allowed to ask you – you can talk to your dairy farmers right now: Let us see, when we talk about designation of origin, that we are maintaining the national milk quota, just as President Schultes has already done with the beet quota! It is the only guarantee for a designation of origin, if we know how much liter of Austrian milk has been produced. Otherwise, all of a sudden, we have the wonderful increase with the fish and the bread. I think it's all the essential that we all pull on one strand here. Otherwise, we are as in Upper Austria: The Agricultural Councillor Hiegelsberger has already come up with the fact that there is no agricultural diesel anymore. But he didn't know who abolished him at all. It was, I think, here with colleagues who voted in favour of a re-introduction by Mr Jannach and colleagues from the Stronach team, by name, with 'no'! This policy must stop me from first abolishing acquired rights, discussing for three years and saying: That is not true, it is so difficult, that has caused the Minister Hundstorfer, who has made so wild demands! – unfortunately, Jakob is Not there; he always says that – and then, after three years, we will have a new discussion on reintroduction again. I don't think we need that. Mr Juryenschlager has said that previous speakers have said this: We need honest partnerships. We need reliable, reliable markings. Then we can underline what you, Minister, wrote in the “Kronen Zeitung” on Sunday – please, write it in every newspaper – that we can offer honest products, sustainable products and, President Schultes, particularly regional products! Food sovereignty has not been given any more. The lies of the surplus are ancient, the milk lakes, the butterbergs and the meat mountains are snow from yesterday. Let us look, please, with an honest policy, with a good representation of interests, with a strong ministry, together with our farmers, but especially with our valued partners, our consumers, and with international partners, that we come to a clean economy, a sustainable economy. Then I can talk about an operating security. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What is currently being sold as an operating security is a maximum death aid. We have to say it clearly. Please, if you have a sick cow, a sick pig and a broken tractor at home, I invite you to go forge, drive to the veterinarian or drive to the authority. Then you'll see how far you get with €1,200! I think that's the very essential thing: Inside we also have the task of not losing sight of reality and really discussing it on the ground of reality. That's why it's very important. For all the political groups, I would like to ask that we work together to implement and address the debate because of these inconsistencies, which Mr Pirklhuber has already mentioned by Mr Jannach. Finally, I say: I do not want this cheap discussion of the type of “Austria” newspaper of today, which says that it is about large farmers against small farmers. Friends, 80 percent of the money called farmers' money doesn't come to a farm! The LFI Oberösterreich, the local training institute Oberösterreich – which is available in all nine agricultural chambers – managed to use the most farm money at €3.4 million in 2013. There are very important things being done: Computer courses. But there is also on the BFI, which is available on the WIFI. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] So these are not double-tracks, but triple-tracks! I'm telling you one thing, because a little bit I know about the computer, that brought my second job with me: I'd rather do that on the WIFI, there are also professionals. We don't need that, everyone keeps his hobby. That's where we need to be in all clarity... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, A little bit I know the chamber system from 20 years of experience. [[Abg. Eßl: You can let yourself be chosen again!]] There we also have to search through everything, as has already been said today. I think President Schultes said in a discussion in the afternoon that the farmers, the officials and staff are in the process of searching through all the areas. Then let's see what's done with the farmer's money. The demand is that the Green Report should indicate next year where farmers' money goes. The word transparency is always needed so much: Then we live it too, then we practice transparency! Then we say: Okay, the money goes to the ministry, the money goes to AMA, the money goes to LFI, the money goes to industry. But, please, what does this have to do with the farm? In this sense, we will also support the requests made by colleagues. The ideal would be – and that is why I would ask, Minister, if we were to be taken seriously if we were really talking about partnership – that we should discuss this also in partnership! That we are not told the decisions after a press conference that we are not being led like the dog on the short line, but are really also maintaining a fair partnership. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30340	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30361	Mr President. High house! We have the report of the Committee on Agriculture on a very comprehensive debate on the government template and amendments to the Novelle Market Regulation Act. It sets out the comprehensive reform of the common agricultural policy, which was introduced in the last few years. for a period of two and a half years at the Council of the European Union and also at the level of the European Parliament. We will thus create the legal framework by 2020 and thus legal certainty for farmers and the basis for the disbursement of direct payments of € 700 million per anno. Clearness and legal certainty, this was also the foreign exchange that was included in the Government Agreement on this reform of the market organisation. I would also like to thank the two chief negotiators, who have finally negotiated the Government's proposal and who have also conducted the negotiations in the run-up to the Committee. Jakob Auerund Deputies Preiner have conducted the negotiations very intensively and, as I believe, negotiates a very constructive, forward-looking approach! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have held a very comprehensive, very intense debate in the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Pirklhuber. To repeat the debate here is probably not appropriate. We do not have the same assessment everywhere, but I still think that the Austrians' appreciation for the farmers and their work has been incorporated into this work and into this novel. Thank you very much. We have the most important elements of this government template with the new regional model, which is planned for a gradual five-year adjustment, which I believe is adequate. We have a compression model for alpine pastures, which is a partial contribution to solving the problem of pastures. Obviously, we all have an interest in solving the problem of pastures. We have provided a coupled premium for the uplifting on pastures of big cattle. We have created a very comprehensive small producer scheme, which will benefit more than 30 000 farmers, which will make a significant contribution to debureaucratisation. Furthermore, we have created a young farmer scheme with a top-up solution over five years of at least 25 percent of the average basic premium, which gives a real incentive to take over, and we have agreed on a funding limit of € 150 000. It is no secret that it was a very special concern to me, especially for the intensifiers, to find a solution for the insulators and to achieve a penalty exemption, retroactively for at least five years. This is based on this law on the market, and I am very grateful for the fact that we can create this legislation. This is a very important contribution, a definitive contribution to the solution of the problem of the alpine environment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This market regulation law Novelle therefore brings a fairer distribution, planning security for our farmers and a gentle adjustment, as we think it is right, a consistent continuation of the ecologicalisation of Austrian agriculture, a comprehensive ecologisation, a clear impulse for young farmers and more fairness for our alpine farmers. In this way, we implement the agricultural reform in good time and focus on planning security. We have enough time to inform our farmers. This is a good reform for the Austrian farmers, for rural areas, and a good reform for Austria's worth living! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30427	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30451	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this regulation of the market is indeed a good basis for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, so that the rural families in Austria have planning security again. And it is not crucial whether we have the discussion at nine o'clock in the morning or at eleven o'clock in the evening. It is crucial, ladies and gentlemen, that the discussion is thoroughly and well prepared. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And for that I thank the negotiators and for that I thank our Federal Minister. This is crucial for farmers, not cheap populism, by showing themselves out here and saying that they are discussing it so late or there is now spending money on the formation of farmers. – Thank God is also spent money on the education of farmers, Ladies and gentlemen, thank God. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to give you a very specific example, and we are dealing with it here in this Parliament, the example of professional protection. One of the biggest injustices and biggest piglets I experience is that farmers are treated with auxiliary workers because of training, ladies and gentlemen. The peasant families didn't deserve that. Let's change that. I'm telling you this quite openly: This is a big manko that we still have on the legal basis. This has not been deserved by our rural families, especially the young farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this agricultural policy, which we have made in Austria, has become a model for Europe. This is not just about large, Austria has shown that small structures are possible, with income combinations, with acquisition, with direct marketing, with machine ring services. We have provided the basis. Let us also offer farmers the freedom, the opportunities and the services to be fulfilled in rural and urban areas: so that they can also generate income to maintain the added value of Austrian agriculture, namely not only to produce food, but also to create the basis for flourishing tourism and also 500 000 jobs in Austria as a whole in the downstream area. Acknowledging this, a great achievement of farmers, where I thank you very much today for this very hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30502	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30523	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grillitsch! I believe that it would already be possible to discuss and vote on such a distinctive decision earlier. That's my opinion, but you have another, that's also legitimate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the common agricultural policy is now to be transposed into Austrian legislation by means of an amendment to the Market Regulation Act concerning direct payment. Mr Minister, there are certainly good approaches to this, and this is beyond question, as the regional model or, as mentioned by some previous speakers, the promotion of young farmers. A very important measure so that not more young people turn their backs on agriculture, leave the farms and continue to die. That is why the promotion of young farmers is an important measure, not only my very dear ladies and gentlemen, because they have healthy basic foods. But the economic engine of agriculture, rural areas, rural development is not stuttering or even dying. Mr Minister, there are, of course, negative effects – Mr Jannach has mentioned it. In our opinion, the promotions are not fair and socially distributed, the AMA is equipped with even more right, the competent minister, ladies and gentlemen, can arrange many details by regulation. The question for me here is whether the Minister will, in case of doubt, decide for the farmers or for the AMA. We from FPÖ are voting for farmers and rural youth and therefore we do not agree with this regulation in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30560	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30581	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Market Regulation Act, which is to be adopted today, is an essential step in the right direction. A novel that offers both legal certainty for the alpine farmers and optimal support for the young farmers. The fact that no more than €150 000 basic premium payment will receive in the future, taking into account wage and ancillary costs, is a success and, at the same time, a positive signal for greater eligibility for funding. Some 130 000 agricultural and forestry farms are affected by the novels. As a key point in this innovation, I see that rural development funds are used exclusively for bio- and direct-marketing projects. For me, it is also important that the problem of pastures be consistently addressed and that farmers who drive their animals on community farms will not have to pay any penalty in the future. The drivers shall be released retroactively if they are not aware of the so-called deviating information in the case of feed surfaces. However, the problem of pastures is solved only when farmers get their money back, this is about €12 million, which is to be paid back to 13 500 farms. A positive signal is also the better support for young farmers, which motivates young people to stay in agriculture. Finally, I urge the Minister for Finance to give up his blockade on the development of the broadband Internet in rural areas. The rural regions need rapid broadband development in order to attract their area, and there is certainly no way of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30621	I call Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30643	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I start with a thank you to the Minister: I like it that after a long day in Luxembourg you are with us today at this late hour. But that's also the more beautiful part. [[Abg. Grill: This is typical!]] Today, we are talking about about €700 million a year, which are to be distributed to farmers under the heading “marketing premiums”. I have worked many summers in agricultural farms, I know what it means to get up at 5 p.m. every day, to milk 40 cows, in the evening the same again, and this applies to farmers – I am not – 365 days a year. If you get between 35 and 40 cents per litre of milk, it is clear that farmers cannot get out with this little money. And it is true that we cover with these funds the socially desired services that farmers provide for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So we have – that is the positive – a great consensus of society with the farmers, which is recognized. What upsets me so much is the lack of consensus within agriculture. Your paper, Mr Minister, shows the great encouragement in the distribution of these funds, which is unfair. The good thing is – and this is the only good thing this evening – that it is going in the right direction – several have already said that – and in five years we will be at a point where we can say: Now it is relatively better placed than today. But why five years? They write in the documents that an objective of this scheme is “to ensure the competitiveness of agricultural holdings”. This is not a question of competitiveness, it is a question of maintaining privileges, the special establishments, which are larger, and that is the minority. So a minority of farms today have privileges that can be justified by nothing. These are now being phased down slowly for more than five years, and this is due to the larger number of smaller farms. To give you an idea: In Tyrol, an average farm receives an average of € 10,000 per year from all payments, not just market order, i.e. a thousand per month. Of this income you cannot live properly, because it also has to buy machines, resources and so on. And you cement this injustice with this slow system of conversion. And I'm wondering what drove in you. I just fell one Matthew, chapter 25: Whoever has, it will be given. – This is the Matthew effect, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And because you are so Bible-resistant, I ask you not to apply the Matthew effect here, but to help the smaller farmers. They deserve more support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30695	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30717	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there is too little time to address all the contributions. But I must address Mr Leo Steinbichler's contribution to the debate. Mr Steinbichler, if you criticize the fact that money goes to the LFI, I cannot understand that at all, because there is education. I can only take the state of Salzburg as an example, where there were more than 14,000 students in the LFI last year, all rural students. The LFI does not consume the money for itself, but thereby reduces the price costs for the farmers. This is money that is best used there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The market regulation regulates fundamental issues for agriculture and forestry in Austria and is an important instrument. On the basis of the few speaking times, This debate is available, just a few examples that I would like to bring now. The uniform operating premium is important that it comes in the future. Now it is criticized that there are longer transitional periods. One of the alternatives would have been that the individual federal states form a region. We managed to get through to see Austria as a region. Individual federal states, which would have meant that 322 € per hectare would still have been paid in Upper Austria and 106 € per hectare in Tyrol. I don't think that would have been desirable either. That is why I think it is reasonable that we have found this compromise with regard to transitional periods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls.]] The second thing I would like to address is the pastures. It is important that we set out in this Market Regulation Act that in future there will be a compression model for the pastures, which is 20 percent for the single farm premium. It is also important that we have a compression model of 75 percent for the compensation allowance. And it is a great wish of me that we also create a compaction model with the 75 percent at the ÖPUL, namely at the Alpungspremie, because only then is the system compact and continuous. A decisive progress is made in § 8i, where we decide an important regulation to bring fairness into the alm discussion. We have already provided the possibility in a first pass that the chambers confirm the duty of care of applicants. And these confirmations will now be assessed and processed in individual cases and will eventually be included in the calculation procedures in the coming months. But it is now also true that, in general, with regard to so-called "mammary drivers", there is the possibility that their duty of care will be confirmed, as mentioned by previous speakers. I can go to the Lord. Federal Minister Rupprechter thank you for taking the initiative. However, I should also like to thank those Members who will then vote in favour of this draft law. And another important detail on the verge: that in the case of old cases a resumption of the procedure can be requested. The implementation is then ultimately with the AMA. The great praise, Mr Federal Minister, comes when the farmers have the decisions in hand and the money in the account and a very essential point has been created again, that we can secure a comprehensive management through rural family farms in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30802	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30823	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think that sustainable agriculture must be the main objective of providing high quality to consumers, providing food safety and ensuring diversity. I think that's where we all agree. Secondly, it must be the goal of sustainable agriculture to keep the cultural landscape as beautiful as we all know it. I believe that we all agree on this too. The aim of an agricultural policy – I am convinced – must be to ensure that farmers are protected. We all agree. We all know that in recent years, unfortunately, many farmers have locked up. We must therefore pursue a policy to counter this. It is also necessary to ensure the competitiveness of rural regions, because agriculture is more than just supporting farmers, but also to support rural regions. I think we all agree. We should also promote structurally weak regions, and there is a need for fair funding policy – a little in the discussion. We probably have another opinion. And now it's about how this is being implemented. With the CAP reform, Mr Pirklhuber, I already believe that we are taking a very essential step towards a more just funding policy. For many years in the Committee on Agriculture, we have been talking about the need to get away from the historical land model – towards regional funding. And we are now implementing this reform. The CAP reform is based on two pillars. The first pillar is the direct payment that we will decide today with the Market Regulation Act Novelle. And the rural development and the market regulation law novelle, which we will decide today, are going in this direction. Mr Willi, you said in your speech that this is a step in the right direction. – That is right, and I am sorry that you will not take this step with us today. This morning, there has been a decision on special pensions, where the Greens are taking this step because it is a first important step in the right direction. – Here too, there is a step in the right direction, and it would be really nice if we could take this step together, even if the transitional periods are too long for you. In 2019, we have this regional model, where each area is the same. This is a very, very important step that we can and can take together in the agricultural policy, and it would be nice if we could find the Greens' agreement on this. I would like to stress that the SPÖ was particularly important to enforce the small farmers' regime. There has also been a success where I would also like to thank Mr Preiner for his insistence on negotiations, if I may say so, but also for the fact that we have now implemented this ceiling of €150 000, although we would of course have wanted a little more. But it is once a good, an important first step. I am convinced that with this market regulation law novelle – no, that is not one-sided. [[Calls: One-sided is that]] I am convinced that we are taking an important step towards greater justice in rural development with this Market Rules Act Novelle, but we will have to take further steps. And I hope we will do this together in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30857	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30878	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! For those who have seen the Croatia-Brazil match before: Col. Steinbichler occasionally reads the “Bauern Zeitung”, but he never comes across the first page. On the first side is: Schultes says regionality is not a trend theme. And that's what Steinbichler just got into. Because the “Bauern Zeitung” is a good newspaper, I would recommend that Mr Steinbichler turn around and read the long article. That is to say, the journalistically prepared: “Regional” and “bio” are not trends, which is a stable development – that is, not a trend, not a fashion, but something right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - That was something personal now. I can only really recommend that all my colleagues read this quality paper occasionally, that would save a lot of confusion that we otherwise need to clarify here in the session – and that is probably an interesting information for some here too. The “farmerszeitung”, yes, this is the famous organ of the Austrian Farmers’ Federation. [[Abg. Kuzdas: Where are they to buy?]] – Yes, there is also the Farmers' Federation, no problem. If I may point out to the Members present: Membership in the Federal Farmers' Federation gives everyone the opportunity to obtain this paper. Ladies and gentlemen! However, allow me to say a more serious word at this late hour: Our market order has been developed in a laborious process, negotiated in Brussels, put into force in Europe and is now to be implemented in Austria. In a very complex negotiation procedure, a result was found which is recognised in the coalition, which the Greens still do not support. In a certain sluggish way, I hear from colleagues from the Greens that they do not like it. May be, Mr. Willi, that the farm in which you were allowed to milk would be one of the greatest losers if that would be the way you have now put it. [[Call the Greens.]] There is enough of it in Tyrol too, I was already there myself. Therefore, you may need to think of the real impact, because it is always about people who are economics who invest, who take the risk that we are now putting massive stress on the changeover with the new world of premiums. The stress I don't wish you would. Only a few here in the house would be willing to purchase such discounts. This will be taken up by farmers, and this would at least deserve appreciation, recognition and encouragement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Justice is therefore an expression for you!]] That's why I'm telling anyone who's glad to see the farmers lose premiums: First of all, we must help them to endure it, and the second step must be if prices are getting worse again, that we need risk equalization measures so that these farmers can actually come along. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is the way one speaks who actually has to represent all the farmers! Where is your sense of justice?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber will also have to expect the table to be covered by the farmers. That's all! These are the ones in the difficult regions, and these are the ones in the favors as you define it. In reality, everyone struggles with nature every day, and the justice, Mr Pirklhuber, we produce ourselves. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's a joke!]] We are not obliged to thank God for the generous alms of a Lord Pirklhuber, for he had long brought us to ruin. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a profession that needs to live daily with the challenge, and we are glad that we have a legal framework that fits, and we are glad that we have consumers who appreciate our products. The agricultural market Austria is helping us in advertising, because I am very happy about it. If we also make or decide today on some applications for the AMA, it is quite clear that it is important that customers know: Delicious, fair and safe it comes from the Austrian farmers. And it's crucial that you all know each other: The major changes that come to us, in milk, in cereals, in sugar, we will only deal with this because we have customers in Austria and abroad. Especially in the milk sector, Mr. Willi, we have been able to increase your interest in 20 percent – Mr. Steinbichler would never have believed that – and by 30 percent, he would not have believed so. Today we export more than 40 percent of milk to abroad, where it is highly appreciated, and we will continue these successes because we know what we can and the consumers trust us. - Thank you. Please vote! It's a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30975	Debates of the European Parliament Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e30996	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! By means of the Market Regulation Act, we will decide on important national implementations for the common agricultural policy in the next few years, for example, the change from historical to regional model for the farm premium. Think of the small farmers' scheme, we also think of the supplements for young farmers or, for example, the alpine scheme! And it is already a bit significant for me, Mr Pirklhuber, that your first concern is at what time this item is being dealt with. If we had had this on the agenda at 12 noon or at 3 p.m. it would have been said that the Minister is not here because he was at the Environment Council in Luxembourg. Whatever you do, it's actually wrong anyway. However, it is significant that these are your concerns. Shame, shame and again shame! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot cut a sentence, addressed to Mr Pirklhuber, but above all to Mr Steinbichler, who was also concerned. Dear Leo Steinbichler! What you've delivered down here today at the speaker's desk... Look at your speeches in the Federal Council from 1997 to 2003! When it comes to changing opinions or not voting in favour of something, it is only logical that the government parties do not go along with a request from the Jannach or the Steinbichler, where no one is above us. That's just logical! And even blaming us to change the mind of what you have already changed about opinions and political belongings, you are a slalom driver par excellence – so, Leo, as please a little more caution and humility! It can't be like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to say, Leo Steinbichler can also make a lot of positive things. However, this is already “a Neichtl”. And I understand the Bible’s saying, “From Saul became Paul. ” That's where you have to say: Paul became Saul. – Leo, a little more humility and caution would be appropriate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What does agricultural agriculture really need to exist in order for it to exist can exist properly? – Agricultural agriculture needs production opportunities, opportunities for us to produce and sell something. We need appropriate prices for our products, and I deliberately say: It is also important that the downstream manufacturing and processing industry can live and that fair prices and fees also receive. We farmers need production conditions with an eyeset and only what is absolutely necessary. Mr Pirklhuber, especially you and organizations with which you work intensively, you would really be very required to develop a little more attention. Sometimes I have the impression that you and others are actually thinking about day and night, just how you can throw us farmers who are practically farming, something else between the feet. And it can't be either. Of course, we need consumers who stand for our food and buy it. We farmers, however, also need to pay off the benefits we provide for society, plus paying off the natural disadvantages that we have in different regions. Under the rule it is important that there is more political consensus in the House in the future when it comes to farming concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31065	Mr Steinbichler spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31090	Mr. Prince, you just said that I had often changed my mind. [[Abg. Wheelers: Well and how often!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Please listen! I put the greatest value on it and actually correct it: Leo Steinbichler has never changed his opinion at all, no more than the form of operation. In contrast to many colleagues who are talking about agriculture, for 47 years I have been driving dairy farming, dairy production, and all the points for which I was expelled from the ÖVP at the time, from the biogas plants...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31124	Mr President, you know that this is not an actual correction of what you are doing here. That is a word message, but no actual correction. [[Abg. Prince: Wendehals!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to turn on the microphone anymore. There is no matter which you are actually correcting here. I ask you to leave the speaker's desk! I would ask you to leave the speaker's room, Mr Deputies. The next speech comes from Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31165	Mr President. Minister! If the ÖVP has ended its Farmers' League fight with Leo Steinbichler, who has been a member for many years, then we can continue on the agenda. [[Abg. Pendl: This is a family fight!]] –This is a family dispute, okay, we take note of that. But you're gonna get in the canteen about it, are you guys? He was your friend, please. Just briefly to illustrate why I would like to report again: Mrs. Gessl-Ranftl mentioned – If you had informed yourself, you would have to know that I was never at BZÖ. [[Abg. Rädler: You were at BZÖ once too!]] - Do you understand? That's how it looks, gal! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Rädler, you really have to correct that now! Direct payments: Ms. Gessl-Ranftl mentioned that 100 or 120 farms were affected. We have 36 establishments that receive direct payments of over €150 000, 36 companies affected by it! These are subject to the reduction. However, if they have wage and salary costs, they can charge them. Many people here are talking about social justice, like Mr Schultes, and they are saying that farmers will be quite stressed by the changeover to funding. I believe that, yes, it will become bitter for some, but it will not become bitter at all for others, and I am accusing you of the fact that you are lobbying for the largest of the farms. I brought a picture here. [[The speaker holds an image in height.]] That's not the ministerial car. It's a little more expensive. [[A strip of images unfolds.]] That's it! That's ten Mercedes to 50 000 €. This will receive individual companies, businesses and foundations from agricultural funding. In this respect I have a request, and I would like to explain it briefly to make it clear once again what it is all about. Today, everyone has spoken of social justice, the SPÖ of wealth and wealth taxes, the ÖVP against it. And now we are adopting a market regulation law that does not regulate anything at all and does not restrict these large businesses at all. The reduction of direct payments to €150 000 does not work at all. I am making the most of the example from the transparency database. The Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation, a foreign company based in Vienna, receives payments – and you can read this in this application – of almost € 1.3 million per year! If you look more closely, you will see direct payments of € 787 000. These are to be limited to €150 000, according to the ÖVP and SPÖ declarations. However, wages and salary costs may be charged. The Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation has 70 employees. And if you expect a gross wage sum including social contributions of €30 000, then the wage cost alone is €2.1 million. Therefore, the Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation does not have to fear a single Euro loss in direct payments. So that's what you're continuing to force. We have the list here: 64 000 holdings of 110 000 in Austria receive less than € 5 000. And some, very few large farms receive total annual funding. I do not think that is justified. And I'm really appealing to the SPÖ: If you think it is serious with wealth taxes, social justice, then you cannot agree with it! You cannot grant a pen of Holy Cross €570,000 a year in grants. I would also like to know how tax treatment is being done, € 570 000 per year! These societies and foundations that make work. And this isn't a game big against little. This is simply an incredibly unfair treatment for farmers compared to these societies and foundations. [[It was a surprise to the FPÖ and to Mr Moser and Mr Pirklhuber.]] Another example of this request: We have two farms here when you look at this. Landgut Allacher GmbH from Gols receives €467,000 per year, and then the Allacher Landbau GmbH is available immediately thereafter. They happen to have the same managing director. This will receive another € 313 000 per year in direct support. That's not fair, and we'll never carry that! We really call on everyone here to support this application to the Market Regulation Act: Once again back to the start and then negotiate to introduce a ceiling, a realistic ceiling. We have also formulated the proposal in such a way that we can really go along with it. We didn't set a ceiling. We only want a justified payment of their services. We also have limits on social security benefits. We have maximum contribution bases. Each small farmer pays his social security contributions for every square meter. These holdings are far, far, far above the maximum basis of contributions when they pay social security contributions. It is not justified that they draw a lid for social security contributions and pay out subsidies almost without cover. This is about hundreds of thousands of euros – and this is not socially fair – for perhaps 50 companies, companies and foundations in Austria. We have to defend ourselves against that. We simply demand distribution justice. If you have to save, I think you can save here. If we take into account the workplace, then the workplace at the farm, at the mining farm, is worth just as much. And these societies and foundations that let work, they pay the workers for it, and the taxpayer finances it. When several hundred thousand euros are spent on support for workers, the taxpayer finances the work performance: Domains Private Foundation: € 334,000; F. E. Family Private Foundation – that's all to read in the transparency database; Farms of the Schotten Foundation in Vienna: € 329 000. And that always a year, always a year! We are now setting this up by 2020. So that means six times. They have already received that since 2007, and that is now set by 2020. The Minister may arrange this by means of a regulation. If we do not take back the Market Regulation Act now, we have no way to really intervene here. I think it is reasonable to make a social contribution to society to the 50 farms that may now receive such large sums. That's what the SPÖ always calls for! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] That is the main reason why I really seek – this is an invitation from us liberals – to refer it back again. We can also decide on the market regulation in July. Nothing happens at all. However, we have now called for a nameable vote to be taken on this request, because we want to know. Mrs Oberhauser, for example, made himself strong for the workers and employees this morning, for the wages and salaries, and that is good and right. However, you cannot agree if hundreds of thousands of euros are paid annually to individual companies and foundations without tax. That's why I'm looking for you: Once again and then in July, decide on this market order! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31252	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31273	Mr President. Federal Minister! Despite the night hour – morning hour, apologise; thank you for the note. [[Call: Tomorrow]] This discussion, as it is now taking place in Austria as a whole, of this shaky class struggle with a millionaire tax in the tax reform, with attempts to revive Bruno Kreisky practically by trying to divide the farmers into large farmers, small farmers, grain farmers, horned farmers, valley farmers, miners, my dear colleagues, that does not lead to the goal. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Watch out for such comparisons with Kreisky!]] I say it again: That's what Kreisky tried to do. And it is now being tried again to practice class struggle. We don't want that! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Watch out for the sound you choose!]] We do not want this because farmers and consumers know they need each other, ladies and gentlemen. Farmers do what consumers want. Get this politically at last! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers – who have high sympathy in society – have not deserved that they are always presented here in this House as animal tortures, poisons, promotion recipients and tax privileges. That must end at last! Let the farmers do that so you can get what you want!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31351	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to reduce the noise level again! Please, Mr Pirklhuber.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we are in full agreement with Mr Jannach's request for referral back. Why? – Mr Grillitsch is talking about the shaky class struggle. What's the fact? – The fact is that the redistribution premium is part of the EU Regulation. We are therefore implementing EU law. And if you're talking about class struggle, you have to say, This is a European law, a regulation, and it provides for greater emphasis to be given to the work of farmers. And the Member States can implement this, with 30 percent of the annual budget. That is not €600 000, ladies and gentlemen, who mentioned this earlier. 600 000 € you want to save with the 150 000 € limit. – No, 30 percent of the total funding, i.e. more than € 200 million, can preferably be used to secure farm jobs. Yes, where is your proposal, Mr. Federal Minister? Where is your answer at least why you don't want to implement it? You, who, as an agricultural economist, have always said in all public discussions: Yes, of course there is an operating cost degression. If you have larger farms, you see, the bigger you can produce, the bigger the farms, the lower the cost of production. Every farmer understands that. It's only logical if there's a degression. Nothing else would be a redistribution premium. This is possible up to 30 percent, Mr. Federal Minister, and that would be a call. This is possible for the first 30 hectares. This has been implemented by the Federal Republic of Germany, and other Member States have done so. Why don't you put it into practice? So that belongs back to the committee! This should be discussed in peace, including the cases raised by Mr Jannach. Then we also come to a real solution that really appreciates agricultural jobs, just as we all want, and also ensures that these jobs are protected for the next seven or eight years. That's an hour's commandment, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31420	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote. With regard to the draft law in 168 of the supplements, which is item 26 of the agenda, there is a referral request from Members Jannach, colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the proposal to refer the proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry in 168 of the supplements relating to a federal law amending the Market Regulation Act. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 26 : Draft federal law amending the Market Regulation Act, including title and receipt in 168 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those Members who vote in third reading for the bill in 168 of the Supplements, “Yes”, who vote against, to put “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name. Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31515	The vote will end. The House's officials will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31555	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 147, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 89, ‘No’ votes: 58. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Holzinger; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Wicker, tiny, white man, weaving, worm Gisela; Yılmaz. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Hauser, Höbart; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun; Laust, Lintl; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin; Pirklhuber, Pock, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Gift, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, Refuser, Willi, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31740	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the voting process, when we vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, on the fair distribution of agricultural subsidies and their limitations. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. So I'll go like that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, those who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, are putting 'Yes' seats in the urn, those who want to vote against 'No' vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31811	The vote will end. I interrupt the sitting for a few minutes to vote. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e31845	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 143; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 53, No votes: 90. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Höbart; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun; Laust; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Moser, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin; Pirklhuber, Pock, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Gift, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, refuser, Willi; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer; Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32030	We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 169 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 170 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[00:39:04]] 29. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Harald Stefan, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (306/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32091	We're going to the 29th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32118	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! In reality, during the first reading, this item on the agenda should address the issue of the implementation of a minority right to set up committee of inquiry: Why, ladies and gentlemen, is the implementation of the reform of the Rules of Procedure on committee of inquiry, which has been on this Parliament's work plan for many years, promised by the Federal Government, started and set in motion at a time when it would be urgently necessary to advance the investigation of the hypo-desaster, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a clarification which is obviously only for the reason that it is currently being delayed or, if the negotiations are bad, perhaps to be prevented, because it is obvious that SPÖ and ÖVP have a bad conscience regarding nationalization – one, as you say, emergency nationalization and, as we have been shown by the documents in the media at the latest yesterday, the wishful nationalization by the Federal Government of Red and Black, which must be the reason to push forward this reform of the committee of inquiry at the present time. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, it is necessary, here on the one hand, to establish a minority right, that this alone will not be enough on the other, because, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to be successful in a committee of inquiry, it will, of course, be necessary to give rights to the parliamentary minority itself, so that it can act. It is anything but a successful throw, if an establishment succeeds, but then the majority to be controlled in the Committee itself, namely the government itself, but also incidents which lead to a failure of control by the government – the final word – no longer can be informed, because the majority suppresses the minority in a committee. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] In this sense, I should like to ask you to continue to support our activities and initiatives in the future, in order to promote and implement a minority right in full extension, even in the case of research committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32163	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32185	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we really do not need some formulations in this House. Mr Grillitsch, I told you personally: That's not really how we deal with each other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you that clearly. And, Mr Darmann, now we are sitting together in a working group for a few weeks. I have negotiated many areas of the Rules of Procedure over the many years I have been in the House. I would normally like to say now that we all believe that we are pretty much ahead of the finish line. But we have always said we negotiate a package – listen carefully, I will never say anything else! – which we jointly judge, with a minority right, with everything that comes with it. For time-term economic reasons, I save myself to repeat all this now. But one thing we don't want: We don't want a politic show. What do you think that's what we're doing with the first reading? What do you think this is a letter to the Christkind, to the Santa Claus, or are you just making a political show? What do we sit for for days, weeks, and make a serious effort? [[Abg. Darmann: Ask your coalition partner!]] And if you tell me now, I'm not trying seriously, then deal with whom you want! That's what I'm telling you in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because that's where I feel like I'm going. To say in the working group, never again do a political show, material information, bla, bla, bla, bla, and then get here before the finish – give a rest! – and simply to say, now you have to set up an investigation committee, that is strong tobak. [[Abg. Darmann: Ask your coalition partner!]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] If you'd been listening to me, I even said it publicly: When we're done with a new right, I have nothing against it at all. I even said that when many of the requests for a second committee of inquiry appeared, I should be right about that. All the interlocutors I spoke to – of all the political groups! –, have said, we do it according to the new law. I'm curious about the next conversation. And what I'm standing for, you know that. - Yes, yes. [[Abg. We don't need a new right.]] Before your debacle, Mr Klubobmann, has become even more reversible, we have already discussed a new right. [[Abg. Strache: Investigative objectors are you!]] - Turn off. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Child-moving, you can do what you want, but not here, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Strache: Why do you vote against an investigation committee?]] Yes, that's child-moving! I don't know, do you have five blue parties? Or what do you have? You've never been there! You think there's an exchange of Jankerl, and all of a sudden others are there?- Oh, my God! Let's leave that! I'm the new minority law in the investigation committee – then put yourself out and say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We don't want it! You just need to say it. I have something better to do than sit down and negotiate with your people for hours. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] Do you want it or don't you want it? We have always signalled that we stand for a modern, new right for the Committee of Inquiry, in full clarity with the minority component. Heckerln can you who you want, but certainly not us and not me.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32310	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, it may be possible to make a small change next time in the list of speakers, that I may be able to speak before Otto Pendl, because the Otto is simply not to peak in his clarity. I really want to say that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I support what Otto Pendl has said, because, Mr Darmann, there are extraordinary – and that is what everyone who really knows about it and deals with it – constructive discussions about the reform of the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] We all have an interest in this reform because it is also a legalisation of this committee of inquiry. Of course, what you are doing is a conscious intrusion of these negotiations. I can only join Mr Pendl here: Stay constructive! – I’m the last to be whiney. [[Abg. Darmann: Don't be so whining!]] - Stop maligning! Bring yourself in constructively, then there will also be a solution!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32394	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32415	Mr President. We can now differ in our opinion as to whether it is still particularly useful at this time to make a further request and to negotiate at first reading. In any case, it is an opportunity to highlight where the negotiations stand, and so it was, I think, also meant. Mr Darmann is quite right that the question of a hypo committee should not have been linked to a reform. You can take note of the fact that this is the case now. As far as we can see from the working group, and this has now gone down a little bit, that, in particular, Mr Darmann of the FPÖ has also shown a very constructive negotiating process and that we have actually met the government from the opposition in many areas – the key to ending the U-committee. There has been, among other things, a desire not to move the U-committee into the election season, and here we are now calling for a compromise. I'll make this clear at the speaker's desk: We have said that it is time to set the deadline, that is, what is defined as an election campaign in accordance with party law, so far that even six weeks for reporting and the U Committee may have ended by then. Now, however, there is also a government debt, because if we are now discussing the fact that this time, four months before that, is no longer enough as an election definition, then we have to see who is negotiating constructively and who is not. I assume that we will find a solution, but there the opposition has moved up to now, and the government has partly gone down one step. On other issues, it is clear that there must be a compromise, at least from our point of view. Without minority rights in the process itself, not only when it comes to setting up, a new procedural regulation is not possible for us to think. It's not without witness charges, it's not without record requirements. That is what we are talking about, how to deal with the files, and we know that too. The impression in the negotiations was that we continued relatively intensively for the first two, three weeks. There was still a need for coordination in the government. I'm not quite sure that this will be so fast in the next few days either. This can be assessed in different ways. On the other hand, the club discussion was quite positive this week, so there is also the opportunity to finalize it. Clearly, now you have to go to the inside and in a round of negotiations really clarify the open questions. There is movement from all sides. If that's what we're going to do now. The negotiations will probably be concluded relatively quickly for the next 14 days, and history will also be completed. It would, I believe, be the time, even with the public declarations, for this decades-long debate on the question of who can exercise control rights and whether this is, so to speak, the majority that must always give the consent, to the end that Austria is moving forward a step and that there is a democratically worthy minority right, so that the minority, the opposition, has the opportunity to make a proposal and enforce it in the control of the government alone, with all restrictions. I assume that in the next 14 days we will have the chance to finalize this.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32466	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 306/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[00:50:49]] 30. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in a federal law amending the Electricity Tax Act (342/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32506	We're coming to 30. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Brunner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32533	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We Greens do not want to tax the self-consumption of electricity from renewable energy sources. The reason for this was a decree from the Ministry of Finance to tax the own consumption of electricity from photovoltaic plants from 5 000 kWh. This so-called solar tax has become a bit outrageous, as the limit has been raised to 25 000 kWh. Nevertheless, I think that we should be active as legislators and change the underlying law accordingly. We propose that the taxation of the own consumption of electricity from renewable energy should no longer be foreseen. I think everyone understands that if you sell the fruit from his orchard, it will be taxed; but if you eat it yourself, I think no one will be taxed. It is similar with electricity from photovoltaic systems: It is not supposed to be taxed on own consumption. If we take all the Sunday speeches and statements that we have on the energy transition seriously, then we must also act as legislators and take this into account in all our decisions, i.e. to provide incentives for more renewable energy. It is often discussed how the energy transition takes place. It needs a network expansion and so on. It is precisely the self-consumption of electricity that reduces the load on the grids. So it should be a concern to create incentives for self-consumption. Our request will still be discussed accordingly, and I hope that we will be able to reach a decision on this subject and then on it. Another important point that can bring about this system change – and we will have an opportunity, and I hope you all work together with us until summer – is energy efficiency. The key to the energy transition – not only is the expansion of renewable energies, but it is also essential – energy transition is system change – to create a turning point in terms of energy consumption, energy consumption increases. We need to reduce energy consumption, and we can make a very decisive policy position here by the summer, if you work with us to bring about a suitable energy efficiency law that actually reduces Austrian energy consumption. That is what we should focus on all those who take the energy transition seriously. Then I am confident that we will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32578	The next item is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32600	Mr President. In line with the advanced hour, I will take a short look. Mrs Brunner, you have already mentioned it, your request here is a little late, because the government has already responded very quickly, with an appropriate proposal – and at this point my special thanks to Mrs Steßl – and by raising to 25 000 kWh the solution already exists in the government template. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] A small demand to the colleague Brunner: What is this supposed to be, in a single family house, are the greens possible, just because it is solar energy, for consumption in unlimited amount of electricity? We need every quantity of renewable energy to make it possible to get out with less fossil energy. [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] We will not try to ensure that households consume 30 000 kWh, 40 000 kWh or more in their own homes each year. It would be better if this were on the net; and we are pleased that this solution, which is the better solution than the unlimited, which comes comically from the Green Group, is being put into this area. By the way, it would be the same with fruit, Mrs Colleague. If we have too little fruit in the country, we should encourage people to let others benefit from it as if we were wasting it in good health at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32651	Next, Mr Magistrate. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a few words to correct. There has been a decree, that is, it has not been a change in the law that raised this photovoltaic theme. The Ministry of Finance has created legal certainty for the many photovoltaic investment manufacturers because the financial authorities had different views of turnover taxes and income taxes. It also clarified the current legal situation in relation to the existing energy levy. Thank you for the clear- the situation, because all photovoltaic plant manufacturers and operators now know themselves accordingly. At the same time, in the ÖVP, we realized that it is perhaps no longer time-consuming to release only this 5,000 kWh, because there are many larger plants and community facilities that need and produce electricity accordingly. After a request on our part – which was quite similar to that made by the Greens today – there was then a round table by Minister of Finance Spindelegger. He tried to find a compromise there, and it was found after initial resistance at 25 000 kWh. It may not be quite satisfactory for the energy transition, but it goes in the right direction. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I welcome the Greens' request. Perhaps you can negotiate this issue even further, perhaps it goes a bit further in the right direction. But it is important to clarify how this has come about. Only through the intervention of the ÖVP could this law arise, and there is currently the government template in which this free border has been fulfilled. This is a good success so far, and I thank you for being able to continue working there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32718	I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32739	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will continue to work to achieve the clarity of Mr Pendl at some point in time; I have to stick to the content in advance. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Consistency with NEOS and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Donate.]] NEOS will also support the Greens' request in the Committee for two main reasons. The first reason is the cover already mentioned. From my point of view, this is the following: Households are excluded in the upcoming novel, but if a small or medium-sized enterprise is now investing and is thus a little more autonomous in the energy sector, I see no reason to tax it in addition, because there has been an investment in the foreground. – This is an essential point. The second point is that we are now talking about photovoltaics and that is precisely what this principle debate needs to be held; for we see no reason at all to remove any taxes or taxes for ourselves produced and self-consumed or self-consumed goods of any kind. This should be paid for by other taxes. Another problem in the field of energy policy is that we are constantly receiving new taxes, new taxes, at least on the government side, which is not intended. Mr Brunner has already said that this is an energy change. Energy transition is mainly about efficiency, about a system change. A system change will only take place if we can make investments. We already have enough money on taxes and taxes. We do not need to invent new ones, either in photovoltaics or in the energy efficiency directive. However, I would also like to say that we will carry it as NEOS, because it is a significant improvement compared to the first proposal, which has given maximum legal certainty that people will also be scrapped in the future, and that is no great legal certainty. If we are already in energy policy, another outlook from our side, namely in the field of photovoltaics. It remains to be hoped that in the very near future we will also discuss a novel of the eco electricity law, because the award of grants usually does not work at the turn of the year. From my point of view, the funding targets are also significantly obsolete, because in the core they are much more efficient than they are actually about renewable energy. And, of course, we also hope that this time communication between the Ministry and the parliamentary parties will work better than in the Energy Efficiency Act, and that for a banal reason, because the smaller parties were not at all involved, one had over a year to draw up a new proposal which, however, did not make, and therefore it has enormously many weaknesses. This will also be the reason why we will not support the Federal Energy Efficiency Act. – In this sense: A nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32799	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 342/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. – Some mandates, too. [[01:01:13]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e32833	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Podgorschek, Mr Mag. Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of an investigative committee to examine the political responsibility for the operations relating to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33045	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33075	Mr President. No representatives on the government bank – I still welcome them, perhaps they are in front of the TV. Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Dear taxpayers, if anyone else now also looks away! Now that the political solution is finally there and things are actually going on, we have to make ourselves aware of the political responsibility. Of course, I very much welcome the fact that the subordinate creditors are involved in the solution and that not only the taxpayers come to the handcushion. I really think that's welcome. That's good. And, of course, I also hope that it keeps legal, that will only show up in the course of time. Many have already announced that they will bring complaints in this context. So we'll see until that's disputed. I hope it holds. This is a really strange special law. But everything that reduces the tax burden on taxpayers is good, meats like strange. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] I also hope, of course, that the subject of Bavaria and Carinthia will soon be addressed. The negotiations have been in the room for a long time, I would like to say, for years, especially as to what is going on in Bavaria. And even Carinthia is not provided for in the draft law now, and I hope, of course, that you will succeed. Of course, it is not justified that the Carinthians can retain this future fund for themselves, while all other taxpayers bear the burden. I hope that we will soon see a proposal here, but I hope that much, much earlier, we will see something different, namely the agreement to set up an investigation committee. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and Greens.]] The Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank is not only the largest banking pleite in the Second Republic, which should not have been ours, because it was most likely not necessary to be a non-governmental bank, but it is also a rather large cross-border criminal case, which has been explained only to a very small extent. There are totally unexplained massive risks at the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria and now also at the ÖVAG. It must be our top priority to clarify these problems now, the entire national banking problem, but let's start with the Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank. Explain For example, you see why documents appear in a magazine today that explain or perhaps even prove that the Austrian negotiators have completely fallen to a bluff, which at least simply proves that the emergency nationalization has not been necessary at all! Finally, allow the Committee of Inquiry to do so. The most important thing for us now is to really know who the greatest creditors were at the time of the emergency. This answer is due to taxpayers! Who has been protected by policy, who has been saved at the expense of taxpayers? [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] There are so many more really relevant questions. Why has the Bayern loan not long been converted into equity? The topic has been on for four years now! Why didn't you install a Bad Bank years ago? Why was the first Minister of Finance Spindelegger successful? Why did you even install a task force? And I know I've often asked this question and explained that a bank has a board of directors and a Supervisory Board and does not need a task force. It can still be read from the interviews of various former organs that the Taskforce pushed the organs aside and in reality was apparently violated by the Stock Act. I ask the government parties, you finally agree with the Committee of Inquiry, but a committee of inquiry which still has teeth! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] Don't completely ignore the rules of the Committee of Inquiry! The Committee of Inquiry must be a minority right with teeth! If you do not allow an investigative committee, then once again prove, dear representatives of the government parties, how far away you are from reality, how removed you are from the normal people. I recommend you once ask your hairdresser, ask once the seller when you go shopping, ask perhaps the teacher of your children, and you will see all want in the Causa Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank a resolution, an explanation. They understandably want to be informed, and that is complete and now. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] And I have one more request, dear representatives of the government parties, allow a secret vote! We have tried this before, because we are convinced that there are some colleagues here in this House, including the government parties who have long understood that there is a need to work together to clarify, and each time you have prepared the 20 names in the drawer so that you can demand a name voting. This puts out the secrets so that you can't get into the embarrassment that your colleagues may actually be for an investigation committee. [[Abg. Lopatka: But go!]] So leave it. Please take the secret vote next time! Ladies and gentlemen! Believe me, if everything is really the way you represent it, you have nothing to fear. And this will only do well for your reputation and reputation of politics in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33148	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33172	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have a anniversary today, the twentieth time a request is made for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: And straight is no longer there!]] What I do not fully understand in the debate which I heard earlier is why we do not decouple the call for an investigation committee from the negotiations on the new rules of procedure. Basically, if I put myself in the position of the government parties, you have the advantage that there is no minority right. You can still determine who is being loaded, you can do some more things than you can do after that, as you want to make it known to us now. Of course, you might suspect that you are only using all these negotiations to delay a decision on the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Lopatka: But go!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the sling gets tighter and pulls together. You can do whatever you want. Mrs Nachbaur, my previous speaker, has already suggested this. I believe that the paper published today by the magazine “NEWS” is very likely to be a ticking bomb that will still go up, for one thing is quite clear: It is clear and clear within that the emergency stateization was not an emergency nationalization, but that, at the end of the day, our members of the government had been pulled over the table. I recommend you read this article. This was not enchanted by a reporter from the sleeves, but these are clearly facsimiles from the Board of Directors of the BayernLB or from the Supervisory Board, the protocols that clearly show that the Hypo Alpes-Adria would never and never have been sent into bankruptcy. Read this! I recommend the study of this magazine, which by the way is to be in the dark circle of Raika, which is still very interesting by the way. I think we will have this committee of inquiry whether you want it or not, because public pressure is increasing and the population demands it from you. And at the end of the day, this is also the Parliament's right to information.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33223	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33251	Mr President. Yes, be done quickly, maybe with negotiation, Mr Pendl! I do not understand the excitement in these series, regardless, Mr Pendl, whether a reform is being negotiated or not and whether there is a consensus or not – well, hopefully, yes, well, hopefully! – it is a legitimate concern of four opposition parties to submit here regularly a request for the establishment of an investigation committee because the matter is pressing. It is becoming more pressing and urgent, and the evidence available to your entire house of cards of strange arguments, especially by ÖVP and SPÖ, as far as the alleged emergency stateization is concerned, they are getting closer and more intense each time. It is not the case that you now have to get in touch with the committee, because you are using your majority to prevent it. It is also true that there is something new on the table every time. Yes, it is, it is, because a well-informed, half-reasoned Parliament would have already given room to this committee of inquiry with its majority. What do you think? In any reasonable parliamentary democracy in the world, this would have been a subject of investigation for a long time, only you still wall! Stop your funny calls! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] The biggest financial scandal, the biggest financial crime in the history of the Republic, you want to cover it up, and I tell you: We could have this committee by a majority every time, if it were to be voted in secret, but that would also prevent you from doing so – even if you did not! The pressure of the public is so great, and it will grow even bigger that, regardless of whether the government parties will be able to enforce this committee four years after signature, it will be convenient for it to become a minority right or not. By the way: Stop pointing at the minorities here with your fingers! It was always the majority who turned the committee off when it was at the height of the investigations. And if you – Mr Cap, you were significantly involved at the time – did not turn off the Banking Committee at the height of the investigations, then we would have saved ourselves billions of damage, and now you are setting up and distributing censorships to the members of the opposition. That's pathetic and ridiculous! We can't let that happen. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But this is a misunderstanding!]] And now on the matter itself, because there can always be something new. From this protocol by the Board of Directors, i.e. by the Supervisory Board of the BayernLB, which was published today in the magazine “NEWS” – which, by the way, Mr Köchl, he sat down, he has been playing the magazine; and we have more documents – it is clear and clear – I am allowed to quote for the minutes of the National Council – that Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr. In the debate, Kemer completely ruled out the possibility of the insolvency of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. – That was two weeks before the alleged emergency stateization. It also states that there is agreement between the Republic of Austria, the Free State of Bavaria and the Bank, the BayernLB as the main owner, that there can be no plea. – That’s the only argument you’ve always saved behind a paravent that you’ve pushed yourself forward, you explain to the people, that was necessary. It was not necessary, and now the term “necessary nationalization” is deleted, because we are no longer prepared to participate constantly in this popular damnation that you are doing here. I can't do that anymore. It wasn't a need, and you built an emergency afterwards to cover up your failure. This can be seen from all documents. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] And now it's getting clearer. We also have very different documents from the Board of Management of the BayernLB, the government of the Free State of Bavaria, from which since August of 2009 it has to be noted that they never believed that the Austrian negotiators are so stupid to get around the whole hypo. But I don't just believe in stupidity, and that's why the question arises: What were you actually extorting from the ÖVP that you were importing a 5-billion-€-hole – so far, that has already been recorded – and at the end of the day a 10-billion-€-hole without need? You'll have to explain that! [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] No matter if you are now clear on the issue of minority law or not: You'll have to explain, the sooner the better!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33320	Mrs Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33342	Mr President. High house! The basic problem of the matter is indeed this nationalization which has existed and which should not have existed. In the meantime, three banks have been nationalized and three bells on the leg of this state. The fundamental error in doing so is the self-esteem of the actors in the state. You're lawmakers, you're co-operators, you're an actor, and now you're a bank on the whole thing. You think you can do with the state what you want, you are all-powerful, you have no limits, and then you believe that you can simply still state a bank over the night and save with what was always to be saved here, and that really belongs to enlightened. That's it. You still do not agree to a secret vote is really bad, but significant. Since my colleague, Rebauer, has today called several professional groups – hairdressers, salesmen – who wonder about it, I would like to add one more: my friends, the host, with the registers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They have also talked about the fact that it is very strange that this right of inquiry is still a majority right and not a minority right, because it is actually in the nature of the matter to shape it in this way. Clarify!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33375	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33404	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens in front of the screens! Mr President, allow me to take the opportunity to do what I have already done in committee: correct the various versions of my name, which are in circulation in the house. I like it when, so to speak, I think of a French family story, for whatever reason, but with my name there is no accent in the back, so my name is quite simple, not Hablé. – Well, I hope the minute will not be deducted. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] We have what I would like to address very briefly, this replacement, pseudo-retirement event for the necessary committee of inquiry, the Griss Commission. We know first of all that it operates without a legal basis. Secondly, we know that she's intrusive: It is being determined there, with the exclusion of the public, in contrast to other countries, where this is also happening publicly, in particular the consultation of persons and witnesses. [[Abg. Wheeler: One word!]] The third point – that's new, and that puts the crown on the whole – is silence of office! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] That is, all that is determined behind closed doors, at least the essential things, is then also covered by the silence of office. Mrs Griss has already said it anyway: It will draw up a final report to the client, to the Minister of Finance, and he will decide what will be published. [[Abg. Kogler: For crunching!]] That's completely absurd! What has also led to ad absurdum is, of course, the need for nationalization. We have seen this today – my previous speakers have already mentioned it – through the documents published in “NEWS”. I've always said, Instead of “necessary nationalization”, we need to change our name because it certainly wasn’t. In the meantime, I am pleading for us to leave it exactly because ‘necessary nationalization’ means exactly what it was not: It was no nationalization, because the bank was mostly part of the Free State of Bavaria, and it was definitely not in need! We have also published some documents a few weeks ago – the correspondence between the BayernLB and the Bavarian Ministry of Finance – which have already indicated in this direction that Bayern never and never expected an insolvency. This document, which is available to us today, is another piece of puzzle that definitely proves that this so-called nationalization was not in need. One thing I've been wondering: If ÖVP and SPÖ, if you both assume that today and here an insolvency of the Hypo Alpe-Adria is not possible, then it must not have been possible just in 2009, a year after Lehman Brothers! That means: How could you buy Bavaria that they send the Hypo Alpe-Adria to insolvency? – So: The need for nationalization was simply essential! But many things come into the slide, even today. Today, we finance speakers have had an appointment, a discussion with the Minister for Finance. We have also learned, among other things, that this so-called HaaSanG, i.e. this law, which now provides for the rehabilitation measures, the participation of creditors, is based on a European directive on the rehabilitation and liquidation of credit institutions. I repeat: It is based on a directive on the rehabilitation or liquidation of credit institutions. That is, this Lex Hypo, this special law is nothing but an insolvency law that you cannot call insolvency law! [[Call the ÖVP: A fool!]] – You can come forward next and explain why this is all stupid; but a constructive contribution was not really that, once again! – This is how financial markets have understood, so of course they are a bit nervous, so the ratinga agencies are nervous. The problem with this is, of course, that you are now doing something that you have always excluded. You said: Reputation! We can't, we can't let insolvency happen because then the reputation would suffer. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] That is exactly what is being done now, only that we – and then I am already at the end, Mr President – have suffered the damage of insolvency without taking the full advantage of insolvency! The country's liability is now being extinguished at once, so it's going to happen at once. [[Abg. Lopatka: closing!]] That's the 20th day. Request, it has already been said that it is a anniversary. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] But please ensure that it is not just a anniversary, but also a parliamentary mourning game, because every mature parliamentary democracy would have used this investigation committee for a long time! Thank you. [[Call the ÖVP: Lock set!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33531	Now comes Mrs Mag. Fekter's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33552	I wasn't there at the emergency state, just, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, if the opposition here is acted as if the article in “NEWS” were proof that there was no need for this emergency nationalization, then I must already bear in mind that internal BayernLB papers were not known to the Austrians at the time! [[Abg. Strache: And you didn't realize it yourself, that was clear!]] If one reads the quote in detail in “NEWS”, it says: “After the negotiations already conducted between () the Bavarian State Ministry of Finance and the Republic of Austria, an unexplained consensus”. – And that is in the papers of Bavaria! Yeah, they wanted it, but it wasn't there. [[Abg. Deimek:... not in the spiritual position to recognize that!]] [[Further calls.]] Neither Trichet nor Almunia nor the other ECB or central bank leaders who have called have known what is going to be published here. On the contrary, these papers are evidence that an error challenge would actually be justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I have reached the ban, and this limitation is still valid! That's to say, I brought the Bayern back into the boat.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33633	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Podgorschek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – That is rejected. [[01:27:16]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-12-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00030_d8e33667	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 463/A to 523/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1712/J to 1758/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 1.27 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
