ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4618	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll open the 34. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 32 and 33. Meeting of 25 March 1990 In June 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Bayr, Ing. Hackl, Barbara Rosenkranz, Zanger, Willi and our Madam President Mag. Prammer. The President asked me to give you her greetings, together with the wish for a smooth and successful course of these three days. I can do this on behalf of all: We shall return these greetings to the President of the Council. [[General condolences.]] Madam President, we all wish you a lot of strength in this difficult time, soon recovery and good! And above all, we wish you a very soon return to this place at the Bureau! Good luck! [[New general appeal.]] [[10:03:22]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4676	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies are Mag. Dr. Angelika Rosa Mlinar and Harald Vilimsky have renounced their mandates and in their place Mr. Josef Schellhorn and Mr. Erwin Anger have been re-appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formulas and calling for names through the writing, the new mandates will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4724	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By calling for a name by the writer Lueger, MEPs Josef Schellhorn and Erwin Angerer are making their fishing observation with the words “I praise”.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4760	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst and wish them a successful work here in the House. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4787	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin is represented by the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Sebastian Kurz. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for the Interior of Power. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is represented by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. I also announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[10:06:02]] Declaration on the occasion of the 100th anniversary. Anniversarys of the beginning of the First World War
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4850	Ladies and gentlemen! In these days, the beginning of the First World War lasts for the hundredth time. A commemorative concert of the Vienna Philharmonic took place in Sarajevo, in the place of the war-inspiring attack on the throne of Franz Ferdinand, a few days ago, in the presence of several heads of state, including our President. We too in the House want to remember this event briefly today. We are at the Presidential Conference on 4 October. In the following joint declaration, the Council agreed to draw up an opinion on this subject in July. The First World War became an unimaginable tragedy. He should also be the basis for further devastating disasters in the history of the 20th century. ==References== In gigantic battles nearly ten million soldiers found a cruel death, another 20 million were wounded and were drawn for their remaining life in body or soul. Whole strips of land have been devastated. Names such as Verdun, Ypern, Gorlice-Tarnów, Isonzo or Somme stand for an unprecedented mass death. The First World War changed the lives of people, their societies and the state structure in Europe. The monarchies in Austria, Germany, Russia as well as the Ottoman Empire went down irrevocably, revolutions and civil wars were the result. At the same time, the Republic of Austria was founded on the ruins of the battlefields. The common memory of the collective nightmare of the First World War, its causes and effects is an essential part of the European integration process. Despite Differences in national commemorative cultures apply in principle to the fact that the European Union is today more than a community of interests to resolve financial and economic issues. It is and remains the basis for a peaceful relationship on the continent. It should also be recalled, however, that in the months before the beginning of the First World War, Parliament could not meet in Austria until 1917. The decisions that led to the war were made by the monarch, his government, and the military. We took place on 17 May. March 2014 International conference held in Parliament highlights that, in addition to other social and economic conditions, democratic peace can make a significant contribution to a more peaceful world. In a speech before the German Bundestag, the Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker warned: "Whoever doubts in Europe, who doubts in Europe, should visit military cemeteries! Nowhere better, nowhere more urgent, nowhere more moving, which can result in the European counterparts in bad voices." Especially for us in Austria, who share responsibility for the events of 1914, it is important to draw lessons from the horrors of this war and its consequences. That is why Austria has long been committed to its role as a neutral mediator, who wants to contribute to a more peaceful cooperation in Europe and worldwide. Today, Austria has excellent and prejudicial relations with the opponents. The events of 1914 should therefore always urge us to use all the peaceful means to resolve a conflict in order to prevent the world from ever seeing again such horrors as it had to be experienced in 1914 to 1918 and in the decades thereafter. The wish of the Austrian Nobel Peace Prize winner Bertha von Suttner “Die Waffen low!” is and therefore remains a timelessly valid political demand, which also feels committed by the Austrian National Council. Thank you. [[General condolences.]] [[10:11]] [[10:11:08]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4908	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Activising the digital future: For a digital offensive for the global availability of high-performance broadband infrastructure throughout Austria” Mr Kucher is the first to speak. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4936	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Whether you live in the city or in the countryside: By 2020, all people in Austria are expected to have comprehensive access to ultra-fast high-performance broadband Internet. If we are discussing the opportunities for access to the digital world today, it is not only about key future opportunities for Austria's economic location, it is also about innovation justice. It is about social participation in economic and public life. Over 150 years ago, the railway lines were coveted and competitive, later they were the telephone connections, motorway connections and airport connections. If you have a good infrastructure, you can not only survive, it can blossom. What would have happened to the Mur-Mürz region or the Wörthersee communities without the connection to the South Railway? – The Internet is the transport route of the future, an infrastructure that is no longer to be thought away today, and this is also the question of data speed. As an economic location, Austria offers highly trained and skilled professionals, a good location in the heart of Europe, a well-developed road and rail network and a secure energy supply. All these are factors that give strength to our site. What we still lack today is comprehensive broadband supply and adequate data speeds for our time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Doris Bures has set a very ambitious goal with her ministry, which has also been included in the Austrian broadband strategy and in the government declaration of the Austrian Federal Government. We want to develop and guarantee a comprehensive high-performance broadband infrastructure within the framework of a digital offensive by 2020. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] We're talking about transmission speeds of up to 100 megabits per second. For comparison: In Germany at least 50 megabits per second are being discussed, and the EU Commission's digital agenda has set itself the goal of reaching at least 30 megabits per second by 2020. In order for this ambitious goal to be achieved, one needs a common confession across party borders. We are not yet in the world's lead on this question. We must act together and not wait until we go after it. Expectation is not only more expensive, we would lose the connection. It is important to act today. When jobs are lost, and when regions are on the digital side, it may be too late to take advantage of digital and technical innovations. About 30 percent of the Austrian population could not be provided with ultra-fast broadband Internet without state support, as investments in rural areas would not be economically feasible. We all here in Parliament, cross-party, we know the concerns of the people, the mayor, the entrepreneurs of the communities that are constantly being brought to us. These concerns are also addressed daily to the broadband office in the Federal Ministry. Small and large enterprises urgently need broadband supply. This is about key prospects for the future, especially for rural areas. In no way can we allow farms to migrate or set aside rural areas. This meant that people would not have access to their future opportunities and their right to a job in their region. In rural areas in particular, a corresponding range of high-quality communication infrastructure leads to the promotion of business settlements and the prevention of deportation. The opportunities to use applications such as teleworking, e-learning and telemedicine are now needed in the future. The subject is really burning. It is not only about whether farms will continue to settle outside the large regions, but also about how long they can stay in poorly connected regions. In June, the municipal day in Oberwart also discussed the subject of broadband development. President Mödlhammer said: “Every citizen must be equal in value”. This means, however, that rural regions need more support to be equivalent. To live in the country must not be a disadvantage in a globalized world. From Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance – this is about the same life opportunities in the city and the countryside. This requires state support, and that is the broadband billion in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Waiting is not an alternative. The broadband expansion is the economic engine for the future. The data collected doubles every two years. In particular, the information and communication technologies sector has brought Austria through the crisis well in the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s. An important growth sector is the ICT sector in any case. It is a central economic engine, which is always demonstrated in international studies. Without the information technologies, we will not be able to solve the key challenges of the future together. I am talking here about climate protection, energy efficiency, sustainable handling of our resources, transport, transport and logistics, and of course also about demographic change. A quarter of economic growth in the European Union and 40 percent of productivity increases can be attributed to information and communication technologies. For companies, especially large industrial enterprises, a high-performance ICT infrastructure is a central market for the future. These are links between the individual branches, the subcontractors and, of course, the international partners. This represents a central location factor for Austria. The foundations for the implementation of the broadband strategy have long been established in Austria. Now we are talking about the rapid financing commitment and the release of broadband billions. As early as November 2012, Doris Bures presented the requirements for a high-performance broadband infrastructure with the Austrian broadband strategy 2020, which was evaluated only a few months ago. Since January 2013, there has been its own broadband office and now also its own broadband atlas, which reflects the conditions in Austria very detailed. Doris Bures has worked together with telecommunications companies, with representatives of the municipalities, cities and the federal states and with countless experts on this central vision for the future for Austria. The homework has been done, the plans are on the table. Now it's about the start. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It makes a difference whether we are talking about 1 billion investment or about 50 million. The concrete plans can only be made after a commitment, after a soon decision on the volume of financing and the release of these broadband billions. If we want to have the comprehensive broadband supply by 2020, we have to act today. In order to be able to actually start in 2015, we must have a binding commitment in autumn and discuss European legal issues together with the EU Commission until Christmas. In 2016, it could then start with budget effectiveness in Austria. Especially in economically difficult times, we cannot ask ourselves the question of when these billions will be used. Austria's business location needs planning security. It's time for action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian German anthem has led to very interesting and rainy discussions in recent weeks – also at the digital common tables on the Internet. Therefore, I should like to quote the third verse in today's debate: “Tough to be in the new times, free and believing look at us walking, work-free and hopeful.” [[Abg. Kickl: brave!]] I would like to dedicate these lines to Mr Spindelegger, in particular. “Musty” and “early work” is said to be, not hesitant, drowsy or waiting; this is the third verse of our federal anthem. Do we have the courage together and show what Austria has done after the reconstruction, even in the future! Let us courageously cry out in digital times!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5036	Ladies and gentlemen! Before giving Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Bures the floor for an introductory opinion, I warmly welcome here in the House a delegation from the German Bundestag led by the Vice-President of the German Bundestag Johannes Singhammer and the Chairman of the CDU/CSU Group Volker Kauder and his first deputy Gerda Hasselfeldt. Welcome to everyone! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests at the gallery! I am pleased that we are dealing with such an important topic of the future in the House because whatever the future will bring us, the Internet will be an essential part of this future. The ability to move on the network will be one of the most important competences we need to gain. At a speed that has never been seen before, this technology has established itself worldwide, and we note that there is actually nothing to do, almost no area where the use of information and communication technologies is excluded. That is also the reason why I am convinced that we need fast, comprehensive networks. We need to ensure this supply of and access to fast, comprehensive networks for all Austrians, just as we made a telephone available to all people in the 1970s. Some had only a quarter connection, but we had a comprehensive supply. The Internet is actually the follow-up technology of the technology of the seventies of the last century, so we need to ensure that this supply is ensured today. There are a thousand reasons for this – I think there will be many good reasons in the discussion – why this is useful; allow I would just like to stress three of them: First: Whenever we talk about solid state finances, we are talking about the need for more efficient, economical and effective management, and that is good. I think it is right that we do not save where people's purchasing power meets, but, quite the contrary, do tax reliefs in this area. However, we also need to see how we can make the administration more efficient in order to carry out the tasks of the State professionally. I can tell you that if we set this as an objective, namely efficient management, savings potential in the administration, then this will not work without information and communication technologies. This becomes a keyword that is not filled with life if we do not have powerful networks. There is no economical administration without powerful, comprehensive networks in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, We know that digitization is something like a measure of the country's location quality, for prosperity, for employment, even for the quality of employment in a country. Therefore, the whole sector of the economy has begun from industry to small and medium-sized enterprises to small businesses. Service companies – depending on our providing them with comprehensive, fast networks for their work. This also applies to service areas, and I would like to send you two letters. I wrote a hotel located at Mondsee that it has no chance of providing guests with fast Wi-Fi. Today, however, this is a minimum requirement in the tourism industry. That is, it is so that we have difficulties, economic difficulties, if we do not expand these networks. The second example is a sawmill in Upper Austria, which has written to me that it has no chance to respond quickly to customer demands, that it has no chance of improving the market presence of the sawmill company in Upper Austria, and that it may get competitive in the market and cannot exist. That is, a high quality of location, good jobs are not available without fast internet across Austria. Third, last, but not least: People should benefit from modern networks in a modern knowledge society, because of course it is about our having a digital divide in Austria. We have a broadband atlas, there are white spots, where there is no access, and these white spots we need to provide with fast broadband in the future. This is important for the future opportunities of children living in these regions. There will be no progress in the field of education if not all children next to reading, writing and computing learn this fourth cultural technique, dealing with the Internet, if we do not allow them access to the Internet. We will not be able to establish a modern health system in these regions, because this is not possible without communication technologies. We will not be able to attract public transport, and, and, and, There are countless examples, and I'm convinced you know them too. It is about that we need to be able to use this technology, but the prerequisite is the existing infrastructure for this technology. The application can be seen in the fact that there is no one in this house, no national councillors, no national councillors, who or who is not daily – so daily is an understatement – who is faced with the internet and communication technologies every hour; that is also part of your work. If I tell you that nine out of ten people also need PC knowledge for their job, because otherwise they have no opportunities in their profession, then I want to make it clear that, although this infrastructure we need to expand does not seem to have a real impact on our entire social life. The experts of my home have therefore worked very intensively on the broadband strategy 2020 for Austria in recent years. We have set up a broadband office that will serve as a service and contact point for businesses, but also for municipalities, for countries, for citizens. And we started an auction, i.e. freed frequencies auctioned. This process has not yet been completely completed, but we know that 2 billion € have been achieved in this auction – 2 billion €! I have agreed with Minister of Finance Fekter that half of the proceeds from the frequency auctions should make a very important contribution to fiscal consolidation. The second half – half and half we made up – is supposed to be to provide companies, people, businesses, all of us in our country with exactly these fast networks. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] I have therefore formulated this broadband strategy 2020, which is the basis for all further measures in the area of the development of the fast networks in the Government Agreement, and we have agreed to do so together. As a result, key points of a Master Plan, a support strategy 2020, were developed, and I, of course, immediately after the preparation of these key points for the Master Plan, included all those affected by it. There were several discussions with the companies, there were several discussions with the entire ICT industry about how we can set up such a support strategy where we have supply gaps in our country. I have invited the countries and municipalities, and all from the Federal liaison body welcome this funding strategy, which we have jointly developed, the entire ICT industry, namely the INTERNETOFFENSIVE ÖSTERREICH, and thank you for this Master Plan for its implementation. That is, we have taken the step forward step by step so that we can also come into implementation, and now, in the plan we have worked out, it is up to you to decide on funding. The next point we have to deal with this plan regarding investments in modern, ultra-fast networks is that we have to determine how much we invest – we had agreed to half the proceeds from the frequency auction – how much, in which tranches, over which periods. My proposal is – it is also on the table – that we make it as quickly as possible that, if there is this planning and investment security for companies, if we have this financing commitment, we will submit the notification to the Commission – that is formally necessary – in 2015, we will start the first calls for proposals from the funding programmes and the first investments by the companies and invest €200 million per year in broadband development from 2016 onwards, so that we will have what we have written in the Austrian Federal Government’s broadband strategy in 2020. I think it is a command of the hour to do so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, my aim is to join forces across all the political groups, because I am of course 100% convinced that we need a solid government budget that we need to consolidate our budget. My department will not only keep this budget to its point, but it has always respected the savings budgets of recent years and fulfils all the savings requirements. The challenge facing policy is, of course, to ensure a solid state budget and important future investment, growth investment, so that our children and the next generations can look to a modern, social and secure knowledge society. I'll invite you to this joint shoulder cap! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5196	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate and I give the floor to Mrs Hakel, I have to pass on to you an information on the administration of the building. Unfortunately, we have a technical problem – you probably feel it – in the house, which is how the cooling sometimes fails. [[Abg. Arbitrators:... Internet too, unfortunately! Mr President, the Internet, unfortunately, too.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The building administration is working on this problem and hopes to be able to fix it shortly. I'm asking for understanding! Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5253	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to spend a quiet holiday today as a city dweller – i.e. without laborious interference through the Internet, mobile phone or Facebook – then you don't have to drive far. You just take your cell phone, goggle “rural idylle” and for example drive for about two hours from Vienna to the south, then you’re already in the beautiful Obersteiermark and thus finished from the outside world. [[Abg. Kickl: Voves!]] Finally absolute peace, no internet – or one that only works all the sacred times once –, no mobile network, and yes, at last you can also get distance from this annoying Facebook! Quiet, absolute calm! Yes, that's right, that's nice for a few weeks of vacation, but it's not nice for people living in these rural regions who want to work there, where they have been living for decades, raising their children, and even later, i.e. in old age, they can still afford to live there. And if I speak of rural regions, I don't have to go that far into any remote communities, no, even in the district capitals, which you can compare half-way with the urban space, you don't find a comprehensive internet. We write the year 2014, and three quarters of the Austrians use the Internet daily. And there is still a digital divide between country and city, between old and young. This must be overcome quickly in order to provide all people with the same opportunities in the information society. Citizens use the Internet to use services such as online banking, e-mail, timetable surveys or income tax returns. There are also ways of doing this, because the ways have continued to be followed by the savings and mergers of police, post and district courts, to name just a few examples, and so they try to make their lives easier. Wide-ranging broadband development has been a survival issue for municipalities, especially in rural areas, as the rural regions have been deprived of many major infrastructure facilities over the last decades. For this reason, their chance for the future lies in high-speed Internet networks, which are also existential for young and innovative entrepreneurs in particular, because the use of web technologies increases productivity by 10 percent for small and medium-sized enterprises. By the way, the proportion of people who use the Internet regularly increases to over 90 percent by 2018. – Yes, rapid broadband development is important for the successful development of the regions! Internet-based applications are crucial today to participate in social, cultural and political life. The comprehensive expansion of broadband infrastructure is at the same time an economic command and a central political task, so I also thank Federal Minister Doris Bures for presenting the broadband strategy. Now only Finance Minister Spindelegger has to keep his word and finally release the billions. The rapid Internet connection benefits not only citizens but, of course, regional businesses, because broadband is a location factor, and a good infrastructure can force business settlements and prevent deportations. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Köchl.]] If this expansion is not to take place now, the competitiveness of the regions will simply be put at risk. And then we are back to the example of the holidayist from the beginning of my speech: Of course you want absolute peace, but you prefer to drive to a hotel or to a guest house with a strong Wi-Fi connection. This is an important competitive factor for a hotel, apart from the fact that the booking system also works primarily online. I would like to tell you two examples from my home district: A large industrial company in the municipality of Weng in Styria needs a broadband connection. A cable-bound supply would cause around €200 000 at one-off costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] The municipality with 600 inhabitants is located in the Alpine National Park Gesäuse, near Admont, and this company offers 60 jobs – if there is a good broadband connection. Second example: the municipality of Palfau, a tourist community directly on the Sala, where a lot of rafting and mountain sports is operated. In the neighbouring municipalities of Wildalpen or Landl you will drive 20 kilometers, there you will also find the next bank with a bankomate. The community wanted to provide an additional service for tourists, but also for citizens, and to provide a banknote, as there is no bank there – one-off costs: 10 000 €. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Read slower!]] – I don't have that much time, I need to talk faster. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Schieder and Kickl.]] That's a lot of money for a small community. About 30 percent of the Austrian population would not be provided with ultra-fast broadband without funding, as investments in rural areas are not economically feasible. And again: In rural areas in particular, a corresponding range of high-quality communication infrastructure leads to the promotion of business settlements, the prevention of emigration and the possibility of applications such as teleworking, e-learning and e-Health to significantly improve the quality of life of the population. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] And another important point, because I am also a member of the creative economy: Sometimes the creative industry just...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5322	Madam President, your speaking time! The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5338	Yes, the most important final sentence addressed to the EIA, to Minister for Finance Spindelegger [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] What about the billion now? Are you not worth the population in the rural regions? Are the companies worth nothing there? With the billion for broadband development!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5380	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5401	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to welcome the delegation from CDU/CSU here in the House. There is no doubt that broadband development is a very central and important issue. We all have our experience, especially in rural areas, when towns or even entire communities are excluded from broadband supply. And I'm also of the opinion: We need comprehensive networks, Mrs. Minister! In my opinion, access to the Internet should be a matter of course today, such as access to water or electricity, and not a privilege of the agglomerations. Because no matter what area of life we are talking about, either we rely on an Internet connection or we expect at least their availability, because we keep in touch with our friends and acquaintances, we use the Internet as a massive knowledge platform and need it for research purposes, for further education and not only for communication, but also for active cooperation. In companies, but also in public areas such as schools, communities and police, but also in social services, it is necessary to have a stable management and minimum bandwidth, as many applications are now only available online. I am right to give my previous speakers that we must also take account of this development, that we must allow businesses and the public access to information and communication. Accordingly, it should also be in our common interest to address implementation here in a serious way. A serious approach would be for me to work out a concrete plan. We have the state of the state, the white spots, and this is why we should define the target state, i.e. the need for action and develop a model, an approach to how broadband supply is to be implemented here. Mr Kucher said that there is no concrete plan before the funding is not available. I see it exactly the other way around. We know this from our areas. We want to know first what and how we spend the money before we spend it. I see it as your task, Mrs Minister for Infrastructure, because it is a central infrastructure to present an overall strategy here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So far, you've been talking to many partners, you have to count it high, you've also involved many. What we have received so far was a film set with cornerstones, no details regarding a support regime, no exact timetables, expansion plans et cetera. But in the last few days, you've postponed your responsibility, and I think that's very bad, instead of ruling in your own place of business. You require “Broadband expansion now” on the homepage of your homepage, even though you are responsible for it yourself. And you have also installed a broadband office in your ministry, which has been working since 2013 and which I do not now predict that it is working badly, but quite the contrary. This would pool the expertise and could present such an overall strategy. I think it is a bad approach to blame the Minister of Finance here, especially because there is already a commitment. The condition is to present a master plan – it was a film set, as I have just said – a procedure as it is also chosen in the federal broadband initiatives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hakel]] Last Friday, the country of Tyrol presented its broadband master plan and can now implement the first steps. We from ÖVP want to solve the issue of broadband development as serious and as quickly as possible and to make concrete progress by 2020. To this end and to its implementation, we have joined forces as government parties and also in the Coalition negotiations agreed. I also see that the SPÖ is interested in their cooperation and wants to implement it seriously. There is good cooperation here with my colleague Philip Kucher. And I hope that in future there will also be a greater willingness for such cooperation from your side.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5483	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5504	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially my appreciated visitors from Germany! If you listened to the last speeches, you could actually only be excited: The broadband development has been advertised. I've been wondering who's against it all the time when you apply it like that. And I have to say, I actually didn't find anyone who's against it. But what I have already found is a report or, better to say, a book by Mr David Hungarian-Klein, which I may once again show, that is the ‘Future Business Austria Infrastructure Report 2014’. And if you look at that, you can see that there is an interesting country comparison to broadband development. While in Germany, the Netherlands, there are about 35 to 40 connections per 100 inhabitants in France and the EU average is about 29 connections, Austria is fighting with 24 connections per 100 inhabitants in the same league as Romania, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovakia or Hungary, all former Eastern bloc countries. – We have come a long way! We have come far, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, it is also the same as on the subject of transport, and this small trip to Germany was permitted: So far, Germany has financed its own roads and is now taking the Austrians and other foreigners into account with a new toll model. Austria has already disbursed from all but is not able to favour its own drivers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to broadband development. We are six years behind, and when we start the plan next year and are finished by 2020, we will not be six, but probably seven or eight years back. That's when I think you've got to give yourself a little veneration, but it'd be better to act. The stakeholders, as they say so well, have a clear demand programme. They say: quick action and proper competitive action! Awesome action? Please, what is happening in the Federal Government? – SPÖ and ÖVP argue, which can now be done with the 2 billion won over the LTE licence auction. In any case, only 50 percent or one billion will be used for broadband development. And with this billion, it will be discussed whether to use it in 2013, 2014, 2015 or only 2016 or later. That's unworthy, this discussion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Allow me also to speak on the promotion of competition. At the moment, it looks like – and I hope it won't end that way – that everything or a lot will go in the direction of Telekom Austria. But let us come back to quick action, to what is to be done. The Austrian backbone network is well developed and competitive. But it lacks the branches, the so-called Points of Presence, for fixed networks and mobile communications. And exactly there the market is not available, because more than 50 percent are in the hands of the former monopolist. And there is a lack of access to the end customer, because there are also more than 50 percent in the area of fixed network in the former monopolists. That is to say, we should be careful to make more and better branches and, above all, to develop and promote the mobile sector properly. But to promote means – and the EU warns that it is possible to expand this monopoly, which is partly present – that the The whole thing is connected to a corresponding offer that the low-cost bidder should make to plan for a transfer of traffic. Ladies and gentlemen! Competition in the past has shown exactly in the field of mobile communications in Austria that it brings high quality with low prices. Let us not destroy this in broadband development, because Telekom Austria, which is no longer the old postal and telegraph administration, is no longer a 100% Austria or a little foreign or German participation, but Carlos Slim is inside Mexico, and we do not know what he is going to do with his market power today. My call for the great coalition, which according to ‘FORMAT’ does not even deserve this name, because it can no longer solve small problems: Make sure you have a real market, act quickly and show you efficiency, then you could win at least part of your reputation back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5580	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5602	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's get together what we've heard so far. On the part of the S & D Group it was said that there is a broadband atlas, there is a broadband strategy, there is a Master Plan 2020. Then the ÖVP was detained, it needs a master plan. Today's present hour is a real good proof that this government is in the end just blocking each other and now managing the standstill. And that is something we currently cannot need in this form. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] We know very well that the very questions of the future – Mrs. Hakel and Mrs. Colleague Himmelbauer have done this – are nothing but a step backwards. Reactions show different rankings. I'm just taking a ranking, the Innovation Union Scoreboard Ranking, since we've fallen from 6th place to 10th place since 2009. And this ranking is also linked to infrastructure issues, to broadband development. This also shows various other areas. There is another ranking, the Networked Readiness Index, which also proves it. We also dropped from 19 to 22, as did the supply of broadband connections in total in Austria. This picture shows that precisely the countries that are at the front of these index factors in terms of broadband development, such as Switzerland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, are generally at the forefront in the field of innovation. And innovation means economic power and also means creating jobs. That is why broadband development must also be invested! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has already been carried out today, how important this is for the economy and, in particular, for the ICT economy, i.e. in the field of information and communication. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. There are 14 500 companies operating in Austria with approximately 93 000 employees. And precisely in these areas, the 40 percent increase in productivity is achieved. The increase in productivity also means creating jobs, i.e. that of which so much has been said over the last few months and weeks. The question thus arises: Why is it so difficult to invest here? We Greens have already submitted a request in May to force precisely this area of broadband expansion, which will release billions of them. Unfortunately, this has not been supported by the government parties. And, of course, the question is: Why? What does that mean? Is this only good words today, Sunday speeches, although we know that this is urgently necessary for the rural regions? Of course, every company, whether in tourism, whether it is a farm, a printing company or photography, all need the fast, powerful data transmission networks. And that is exactly what needs to be done consistently now! There are also various resolutions from the Land Days, for example from Upper Austria, in which the urgent appeal is addressed to the government to move forward on this issue. And there is also a survey by the Chamber of Commerce in Upper Austria, which has raised what it looks like with the high-performance networks in the regions. And I can call you numbers from the district of Freistadt, a region in the Mühlviertel. There are just 12 percent of companies equipped with fiber-optic connections, and to the 75 percent of these companies say that they can develop well so that they can continue to be anchored in the region and create and secure jobs, they need high-performance Internet. In this respect, the question arises of course: Why is it still not ready? – It is the blockade, the mutual blockade. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to make the appropriate proposals today. In order to ensure economic strength, competitiveness and safeguard rural regions, we ask you for your support on this issue. We need a comprehensive expansion. The second is that Austria must work to position itself at the top of the ICT nations, because that is also what will ensure economic performance, competitiveness and creativity in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5662	Next item is the report by Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5683	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectator at home in front of the televisions or via the Internet, if you should receive us! If Mr. Finanzminister Spindelegger holds back the promised broadband billions even longer, very many people in this country can still dream of a fast internet connection, unfortunately. This is sad and a special class poverty certificate for Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, every infrastructure expert will confirm to you that the speed of the Internet in the 21st century. It is essential for the competitiveness of a region in the 20th century. Without bandwidths of at least, I say once, 10 to 20 megabits per second, companies don't even think about living in a region. That means simple billing: no internet, no jobs – a death sentence for every region. With the expansion of the high-performance broadband internet, we could hit two flies with one flap. On the one hand, we would finally create adequate and, above all, modern conditions for companies, but also private ones, and allow them to work in a competitive way, keyword home office solutions, keyword mobile jobs, keyword video conferencing et cetera. On the other hand, we could really counteract the ever-increasing rural flight. What person who has not just committed himself to an eremit existence wants to do away with his smartphone, on his laptop, on his tablet these days? Or let's say: What person today can afford not to be online at all? You just have to take yourself by the nose. How nervous will you be if you are in such an internet supply desert for a long time and can't read or write e-mails? That's not a good feeling, is it? [[Abg. Kickl: Sometimes it is very pleasant!]] Whether you like it or not, the working world has changed enormously. Whoever doesn't go with time today is going with time. And a country that does not provide its people and, above all, its businesses with proper and, above all, modern infrastructure will not remain competitive in international competition for short or long. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fact! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is about the competitiveness of Austria's economic location. This is, of course, a very special issue for me, as a Turkish Member. No, especially in the southern and central Burgenlands, we are partly connected in no one's country. That's a fact, too. And what businessman, half-way, I say, is half-understanding, please move into such a disadvantaged area? A slow internet is therefore not only a punishment for individuals, but in reality for an entire economically weak region. There is no need to wonder about the departure into the agglomerations, which can only be a logical consequence. According to the Regional Management Burgenland, one fifth of my home country is equipped with very bad or bad Internet connection. And completely without broadband Internet access must be found in the Burgenland of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. Kickl: There we are again at the red captain!]] If, in terms of the establishment and expansion of our broadband infrastructure, we continue to push through and political decision-makers in this country do not think anything better than to move the ball and push one another to the black Peter, then the problem will not be solved. We must not play on this matter on time, but we must become active. Everything else does not help people or companies in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I say quite clearly and in all the specified sharpness: In the matter of a reliable, inexpensive, high-quality and fast broadband infrastructure, we need a national shoulder closure politically. It must be possible to jump over your own shadow and say: Yes, this is important for people and businesses in this country in order to remain competitive for the longer term! A powerful broadband network is the basic prerequisite for the development of the regions. In Austria, there is a lack of a modern strategy and the offensive. We need a comprehensive expansion of the network – which has been addressed more often today – with clearly defined data speeds as standard. Only in this way will companies and private companies in the regions have planning security and a future perspective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5753	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5775	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear broadband users in front of the ORF TV library stream in the remotest valleys, if you can receive it! The LTE frequency auction brought almost four times as much money as expected at almost € 2 billion. 1 billion of these went directly to the budget, and the second billion is still held back by an accounting trick for the budget, instead of being used as agreed immediately for the expansion of broadband infrastructure. We all seem to agree on the need to invest in this area. So it is not about whether it is useful to invest, but about how fast, how much and when. As a result, the Federal Minister must already be welcomed that she is insisting in this area. Nevertheless, the SPÖ and also the Federal Minister cannot take responsibility. It is symptomatic of the great coalition that important projects are being dropped. We experience in broadband development the same thing we experience in the area of pensions, education, administration – use what you want –: Drag and drop to the absolute standstill. The broadband expansion is delayed, and in other areas nothing goes further because the money is used to stop budget holes. There is a topic on the table, on whose agreement exists among the parties, the will would be there, but because the money is missing elsewhere, we cannot continue in this matter and have a strategy that extends until 2020. As Mr Deimek correctly pointed out, this is clearly too long and we are going to get further into the matter. That kind of sounds like broadband is a luxury item. Broadband is not a luxury item, but part of the basic supply of the population and businesses. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The population living in less well-equipped areas needs equivalent conditions of access in order to be able to participate in social, cultural and political life at all. The network has penetrated society and life to an extent that allows full participation only with a good connection at all. Distance is no longer a matter of geographical distance, but of willingness or of the very basic possibility of participating in these processes. Those who do not have this access will be at a disadvantage. This disadvantage may of course be self-elected, but it is certainly not taken on a voluntary basis by all and cannot be changed by individuals. Of course, broadband is absolutely necessary for businesses, as we have already heard. For work, the lack of a good connection is hardly imaginable in the long run. In this respect, however, things must not be dramatized either. It will not be possible for businesses in the high mountains to settle, just because we are laying fiber optic cables there, but rather it is a hygiene factor that is necessary to ensure that the Do not drift away. In reality, this is a site question. Mr. Lichtenecker has already quoted a ranking. I quote another one, the Global Innovation Index, where we fell back from #15 to #23. The decline in other indices is even more dramatic than in this innovation ranking. So it's not about digging up some mountain valleys and building up Silicon Valleys, but it's about that we don't miss the connection to this thing in global competition. What is needed for that? – There are two points. First: We have to find out where there is infrastructure at all, which is not yet used, for example for ex-monopolists in the telecommunications sector, for railway companies or for energy suppliers. We could create a broadband hit to find out in which areas broadband would in principle already be available, but not currently being used. – This has nothing to do with the broadband card you currently find online on the Ministry’s website. Secondly, It should only be promoted where, in fact, it cannot be built without promotion. At the same time, it should be avoided that a switch to hierarchically higher products is carried out or forced. The second question is of course: How do we spend this money? – The actual demand is certainly not equally distributed. A comprehensive minimum performance is good, but a needs-oriented maximum performance must not be forgotten either. It also does not have to be laid down everywhere fiber. Coverage with mobile broadband and high-performance mobile networks is at least as important. Investments must therefore be technologically neutral. And: There must be no “foerderism”. There is no intention of awarding companies close to the countries, but of providing central procurement directives, which are transparent and are also respected by all. That means: targeted project promotion – no casting can! The suffering pressure on this matter is certainly not excessive. The situation is hopeless, but not serious, as you say. Mrs Minister, please get this money and do it. That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5855	Before I give the floor to Mr Fichtinger, I very much welcome the President of the Tyrolean Landtag Dr. Herwig van Staa here. [[General appeal for the President of the Tyrolean Landtage sitting on the visitor gallery, who in turn is gratifyingly waving into the plenary.]] Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5885	Mr President. Mr President of the Tiroler Landtage! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens, especially those who follow the debate via the Internet! High house! I note in the House a very broad consensus on the need for measures to be taken with regard to broadband development in Austria. There may still be a slightly different opinion on the financial design, the rapid or less rapid release of funds, but I do not doubt that the expansion and the smooth functioning of broadband networks are essential in the present day for essential areas of our society. Let me briefly illustrate this by two examples from my home region – one from education and one from the economy! In Weiz, one of the largest School locations in Styria, where all higher schools are gathered in a federal school centre, have made it increasingly difficult in recent years to offer and carry out teaching, not only in the field of education, but also in other subjects in a form adequate to the needs of time. Only last year's relocation of the urgently needed fiber-optic lines and the associated production of a modern infrastructure will enable schools to offer education at the level of time and, above all, the technical and economic needs of future employers. The city has responded in the following form: The municipal council has taken a decision that in the future all excavation and installation work carried out in the municipal area will automatically involve an empty piping for a site networking for light wave conductors. This causes additional costs from approximately € 6 to 10 per running meter and still seems to be in a quiet area for most municipalities. We must not and cannot afford to find out in the field of education beyond the agglomerations only by the fact that the necessary infrastructure is not sufficiently available. A second example of the economy: The large companies located directly at the same location – that is, in Weiz – today need data quantities in an almost unimaginable extent in a few years ago. Like all of us, companies today use electronic communications and the new media in a dimension almost nowhere known ten years ago. At the same time, however, there are only a few kilometres away in the upper Feistritz valley, real supply gaps that are at risk of existence for the companies and, according to their own statements, are still present in the area of connection to the data streams. If an economic operator tells me in a conversation that he receives the advice from the providers due to massive problems in the transmission of data to offices and authorities, he may still carry out these data transfers on the later evening or weekend, since in these periods the existing lines are less burdened and thus the probability of faultless data transmission is higher, then this should not only trigger a staggering headshake in the present time, but must start ringing the alarm bells. More than a year ago, the Federal Economics Officer of my home district, a more than unwarranted official from our coalition partner’s point of view, has been promoting the “Small Newspaper” and since then the expansion of broadband networks in these areas as an important means against the emptying of the regions and the maintenance and expansion of existing businesses, and he does not tire out ever since. If businesses in rural regions are already dealing with settlement plans because the necessary infrastructure measures for the continuation and expansion of their operations are not and are not being implemented, the public authorities should no longer wait and the implementation of these infrastructure projects with the existing resources should actually proceed as soon as possible. The government programme notes that the Federal Government is in favour of a digital offensive, particularly for the comprehensive availability of high-performance services. broadband infrastructure will be used. Let us no longer hesitate with the implementation! Mr Federal Minister for Finance, release the appropriate funds!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5952	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5973	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the last sentence of Mr Feichtinger: Retranslations are supposed to be allowed too. [[Interconnected calls for cranes and hooks.]] A digital offensive, as proposed by SPÖ as today's current topic, is quite appropriate. It is clear to all of us that, without fast Internet access, businesses, service companies, tourism, but also industry and farms have a decisive competitive disadvantage. It is also clear to all of us that broadband development needs to be continued in order to prevent a divide between city and country with regard to the development and growth of the economy, employment and research. It is of course now that every house, even if it is still so remote, is connected to the road, to the electricity grid and to the telephone network. Development and maintenance of this requires a high level of planning capacity, especially in the municipalities. Now it is about developing and expanding the modern data networks in the country accordingly. There are very good examples of this, primarily in the EIA-led Länder. As far as broadband development is concerned, we are quite pioneers. I mention just a few examples and may naturally start with my home country Upper Austria. [[Abg. Moser: Check out... in the Mühlviertel!]] With us at home in Upper Austria, the subject of broadband has been on the agenda for a very long time. Head of State Dr. Josef Pühringer and the competent councillor Dr. Michael Strugl are very committed to this. Since 2004, the broadband initiative I, with total investment of €100 million, has already been implemented with a funding volume of €11.3 million from the Federal Government, the Land and the EU. The broadband initiative II invested €2.6 million in total funding. For example, 464 settlement points will be supplied accordingly until the end of this year. Broadband is essential for all levels of population, broadband Internet has become part of everyday life. More and more activities are moving into the World Wide Web, and for many people and companies rapid and powerful Internet access has become indispensable. More and more medium-sized companies are focusing on high-performance communication technologies that combine and combine voice and data transmission. With the broadband initiative II, we ensure that 84 new connections in the education sector in Upper Austria, 132 in businesses and 4 500 in private customers are successfully provided. The 2013 broadband initiative is currently running with an investment volume of around €7 million and a promotion of €2.3 million. But not only Upper Austria shows its pioneering role here. Let us look, for example, at the federal state of Tyrol, where state captain Günther Platter presented last Friday the broadband initiative of the state of Tyrol. [[Abg. Moser: The Greens everywhere at work!]] From 2014 to 2018, €50 million will be invested in this area. The Federal State of Lower Austria will present a model for broadband development in analogy to the Water Economic Fund by the beginning of September of this year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Rädler is very well aware of this model, because he is involved in the development. For example, let's look at the state of Vorarlberg, where state captain Wallner and the competent state councillor Schmid ensure that the funds for broadband expansion flow and support are provided. The federal states in which the ÖVP is the decisive force are pioneers, and they also show how. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is therefore a bit strange for me that you want to push the Black Peter in this area of the ÖVP with a lot of medial talk lately. Mutual debt allocations do not continue, and I think all the parties here in Parliament are equally interested in broadband development. I think you can take an example of the federal states I have already mentioned and, with the involvement of all local authorities and private investors, you can draw up a master plan to bring together and put together concrete development measures. The competent government members of the individual federal states are certainly very cooperative and will provide the findings they have gained from their experience. I'm convinced of that. I am also convinced that the budget decision will also be clarified in agreement if clear targets are finally on the table. First of all, the money and then the concept, which would be very plausible in savings times as we have it at present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is much more credible to draw up a good approach with the subsequent definition of financial resources and support. I therefore hope for constructive cooperation between all those involved to find the best solution in the interests of the people in the country waiting for the necessary broadband development. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6041	The next item is the report by Mr Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6062	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I wanted to start my speech by saying that the history of broadband development in Austria is a history of misunderstandings, but obviously it is not, because if one has heard my previous speakers, then one has to realize that everyone is for broadband development. So the question arises where the problem is. I must also address this question to the government groups: What about coordination within the coalition? It is this current hour, in my opinion, to be regarded as a call for help, and we are happy to respond to this call for help from the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps some facts about the current broadband supply at the beginning: 81.6 percent of Austrians use the Internet. There were 4.33 million of these last year broadband connections. The composition of the connections may also be very interesting: mobile broadband 50.5 percent, cable broadband 14.8 percent and fixed network broadband 33.7 percent. So more than 50 percent of the population have the choice between three providers and three different technologies. In 2012, the coverage of the Austrian households with fixed network broadband was 98.9%; the EU average was 95.5%. Now comes the jumping point: Access to the next generation’s networks, which have at least 30 Mbit/s download speed, was available for 69.5% of households in 2012 and only 15 percent in rural areas – and the big problem is to be seen here. I can bring a few comparisons from Europe: In Germany, this figure is about 28 percent. The Netherlands has even covered rural areas with 84 percent say and write. Thus, Austria is very far behind in the ranking as far as European comparison is concerned. Maybe even internationally a few numbers: South Korea is at the top with an average of 22.1 Mbit/s download speed, Austria is in place 11 with 9.3 Mbit/s. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the broadband has spread, above all – and this is also the trust that results in Austria – due to the low prices in the field of smartphones accordingly. In fact, however, the broadband in the area of the fixed network is heavily dependent. The NGA's share of these new connections, in fixed broadband connections, was 11 percent in 2013 in Austria and 65 percent in Romania – and this is a very interesting point. This means that in rural areas Romania has implemented broadband development in the fixed network to 65 percent, with the Czech Republic being 38 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can now calculate where our funding millions are going. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just a short while to the situation in Lower Austria. There is a real need for action in rural areas in particular. The economic expansion by the Telekom companies is not really understandable in Lower Austria, but in this context we speak of 450 000 inhabitants in a total of 372 municipalities. That is why I would say that even there people should not be neglected. There are applications from farmers specifically in Lower Austria, there are applications from the ÖVP in the Lower Austrian Landtag – I really wonder why the ÖVP is so hard to release these funds. Above all, the Lower Austrian mandates of the ÖVP need to know how important this is for our federal state. It's about tourism, it's about home jobs, it's about the possibility of remote studies, and it's just, and it's all about the opportunity for the economy to transport large amounts of data. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we liberals have also thought about how we can solve these miscarriages accordingly. In Germany, there are already efforts in the direction that public construction projects, particularly in the field of civil engineering, are required to install empty pipes to significantly reduce the costs of further expansion of the fixed network, which is at least 80 percent in the field of civil engineering. We shall make a request to do so. Stopping the broadband offensive is therefore an attack on rural areas in Austria. Research and science countries look different. We should therefore really try not to lose the connection. Saving the infrastructure is saving on progress! Austria is a high tax country, we have a tax and tax rate of at least almost 50 percent, ladies and gentlemen, dear! Citizens in the country are also not second-class citizens. That is why I would like to write to Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is not here today but who is apparently responsible for the miscarriage, in the main book: Don't poker with the future of our country, Mr. Vice chancellor! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6138	Mrs Bures spoke on a further point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6159	Mr President. Mr President of the Landtag! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: I would like to invite you once again to make a close-up on such an important topic of the future and to really join forces to actually join us in the 21st century, for all the reasons you have aptly described. ==References== I do not need to repeat this at all, but I would like to point out once again that this is so important to me and therefore there are no mistakes: We have developed a plan that has started with a broadband strategy of the Federal Government in 2020. We have set out exactly what 2020 the supply of high-performance broadband in Austria will look like, what speeds will be achieved, at which stages this implementation will take place. In the course of the government negotiations, half a year ago, it was possible to define this as the basis for the joint work of this government, and that is a good thing. That's what we've developed a master plan from. We have formulated key points in how we can achieve our objective of comprehensive supply. They all know this in the high house. At that time, when I had discussions with the ICT companies, with the industry, with the municipalities and countries about this master plan, I was still criticized in press releases for trying to continue this plan consistently. There were broadcasts in which it was called, for which I even had conversations, I didn't have any money anyway. That's what we're on the subject of money. It is true that we have revenues from frequency auctions. That is still not quite complete, as has been said, but we can now assume that there are 2 billion. And, Mr Fekter, we also made the written agreement at the time that part of the budget consolidation and some of it will be spent as a reserve for these investments in the infrastructure sector. I have always said that I do not want to use reserves to cover savings, but the reserves that we have must be growth investments must be investments that move our country to secure employment and growth in our country. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Moser.]] Therefore, point 5 of the Plan now states that we need to make this basic financing decision in order to develop the support programmes. These are highly qualified ICT experts who develop the support programmes. It is examined, technologically neutral, where investment is necessary in order to ensure a comprehensive supply. For me, it is important that we do not withdraw from the budget rate that we have taken for 2014 and for 2015. That's why I said: Now, with a financial commitment to give the companies planning and investment security, we are developing these detailed funding programmes! Let us try – and we will do so too – to notify them to the Commission! Let's start. with investments by the companies in 2015, budget-effective only in 2016, with €200 million, and that in tranches until 2020, as long as we have planned this strategy! The plan is there, and on the plan, we need a financing decision now. I am confident that I do not see this as negative as some of the opposition parties who believe that there is a standstill and that it will not come. I am convinced that we will have fast networks by 2020, we also need these fast networks. I say like so often: That's where the train runs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6210	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6232	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home or at the gallery! Mrs. Minister, your word – I can't say in God's ear, but – in the ear of Mr. Finanzminister! That's completely absurd: Six parties, six political groups here in this House, are as closed as you wish, Mrs Minister, a close-up behind the offensive that the broadband in each village has adequate capacity and that there are no white spots. That's consensus! So, Mrs. Minister – and now I'm telling you the story, you probably know it better than I do, but you don't tell it in detail – why isn't this implemented? I have already made a request here in the House in 2002, that there should be a master plan, a broadband offensive. The application came from the opposition, so it was ad acta. Then there was once an advance from the control commission RTR towards Master Plan. I still have the CD of this advance from the specialist world: Master Plan, Broadband, ICT, Austria, Future Course. That was still in black and blue. Then came red-black, another master plan, and then came this strategy 2020. What moved like a red thread through this time of planning, the master plans, the various offensives, was the question of financing. It does not help us at all, or just a little bit – apologise, Mr. Prince – if the countries – especially the EIA and Green Governments – are exemplary, you say – take over up to 100 million. We have an investment volume of 5 billion! That is what the EU says about Austria, over 5 billion, and that is clearly stated in the future business report you are quoting. I can show you this again, also from the same band, the state of Austria and the EU. [[the speaker keeps the copy of a graphic up to date]] Supply per hundred inhabitants is 28 per cent in the EU and 24 per cent in Austria. The EU is significantly higher than Austria. ==References== Why? – The red thread that goes through all the problems is financing. And I also tell you why this is not being financed. It's quite simple: because as a politician you can't cut a tape in this case, because this technology is largely invisible. It is buried as a glass fiber or in the form of a mobile phone as little tangible. They are constantly doing things like cutting bands, showing pictures, then getting big and braiding, which you don't invest everything. The essential thing for Austria's infrastructure in the future, Mrs. Minister – I fully share your opinion – is the invisible fiber optic tape, the fiber optic cable in the ground, and that costs, we know, and this must also be co-financed by the Republic. Now I'll tell you something. The 2 billion proceeds from the auction of frequencies were just a gift from heaven. They originally counted 600 million and proclaimed grandiose government – in the last period – half went to ICT, the other half to the housing offensive. What do we have now? – Neither ICT nor residential offensive, because unfortunately we have the hypo-billion-endaster. That's the real reason. Hypo kills the future, Hypo kills broadband, Hypo kills virtually technological progress in Austria, and ÖVP is responsible for this, namely through the so-called emergency stateization. That's the real reason. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] In the context of the government negotiations, I have strongly advocated that the proceeds on the one hand finance the housing offensive and, on the other, the broadband offensive, if the money is actually ‘falling from heaven’ in the literal sense. What was the answer of a key EIA financial handler? What do you think? – We need the money elsewhere! That was the answer. We know exactly, the money's sluggishing in the billion hole of the hypo. And for me, this is a poverty story on the part of the Minister of Finance: that not at least half a billion will be financed in the future area, but only one hole will be stopped. I am on your side, Mrs. Minister, the broadband development is the motorway construction of the 21st century. 19th century! We need it urgently, and there is agreement in Parliament on this. Mrs Minister, if you dare to take the step out of a coalition force, take the step into the democratic vote in this House! They have the majority behind them. I am waiting for how many EIA mayors from rural regions might then jump up. They should, however, probably not do so, although in their communities they will certainly be promoted to vote against high-tech development in their home country in the House. Finally, Mrs. Minister, I would like to say a word to you: You could change yourself! They take billions into their hands to the technology of the 19th century. In the 19th century, the railway tunnel construction, to finance – railway tunnels, Brenner base tunnels, are worth at least 8 to 12 billion – but you do not invest in broadband. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Through the tunnel, hardly anyone will drive, but with broadband, we need the most urgent transmission capacity. – In this sense, Mrs Minister, please first look in your own house! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6304	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6325	Mr President. Minister! I'm going to have to make a little bit of the consensus I've been talking about. It always says that we need a broadband network in every Kaff at every house. [[Call:Hello! ‘Kaff’?]] If you're talking about a broadband network at every house, then you're talking about a fiber optic cable or some other high-quality cable connection, and I'm saying we don't need that. We do not need this at every house, and therefore not because it is just too expensive to produce a 100% surface cover with broadband cables. We need broadband at every house. And I now tell you a secret that no one has said here today, apparently the least of those who have stood here today at the speaker's desk, seem to know: We have broadband at every house in Austria! Each house in Austria has a broadband connection when using satellite technology, which is, as a result, more expensive for the private consumer by € 20 to € 30 than a fixed network connection of Deutsche Telekom, if a cable is located there. And that's exactly what it's all about. In the end, it's just that you want a cheap broadband connection for everyone, and then you're going to cut the whole thing by supporting Deutsche Telekom in the only hope market it's still in, namely the wired Internet. They take a billion to help Deutsche Telekom put a cable to every house to benefit from their only competitive advantage, instead of choosing a reasonable strategy to enable each individual to access the Internet, which is already available. It doesn't have to be cheap. For example, if you build a house in Tripstrü, you probably don't have a subway connection there and perhaps no motorway connection and perhaps there is also a railway station only in the nearest place, but you pay there for the building ground instead of 300 000 that you pay in the surrounding area of Vienna, only 30 000. That's the difference. That means you can get something in your pocket, too. You have also told of this company in Upper Austria, which customers run away from. - Bullshit, absolute nonsense! Internet connection via satellite costs 100 € per month and creates 100 megabits. I've printed some offers, I can show them to you. So if an entrepreneur has a problem, he simply installs a satellite connection – and everything is good. Don't tell us any fairy tales! The only thing you intend to do is: They press off 2 billion by auctioning the LD frequencies to the mobile phones, thus preventing a meaningful expansion of this future technology, and then the mobile operators can work with you to get half of what you have pressed them back from you, because there is a risk that you will push it in the back of the Telekom. That's the problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That, Mrs Minister, means we need a proper strategy. To generate here with this item on the agenda proves only one thing: You believe with a waschivaschi discussion, everyone in Austria needs broadband to be able to beat political little money because you are in the good hope that no one knows each other. [[Congratulations to representatives of the Stronach team.]] But I can tell you, there's some people out there. What you're doing is just unfair. If you actually give this money to Telekom to put a fiber optic cable to each house, I can tell you that you will finance individual connections with hundreds of thousands of euros. Do you have any idea what that costs? Many have already said that the communities were so smart to lay an empty pipe or even a fiber optic cable in the course of excavation work. That's smart, but if you're going to get extra digged to really cover everything by 2020, eliminate all the white spots, then it's a money destruction that's done without strategy. And that's exactly the problem we've been seeing with you for years, especially with the ÖBB, which you're not very successful in leading. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why, Minister: Broadband for all yes, is available, costs only a little more for some, but broadband fiber only where it makes sense – not everywhere and not across and above all not as populist as you put it here today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6379	Next word: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6400	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I wanted to say something about the standstill in myself, but, Mr Lugar, the issue of yours is so good that I have to answer it. Two things: First: The populism in this House today was mainly borne by your speech. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The basic question is what broadband access should be. From our point of view, this is indeed a basic provision to receive and provide information and to be able to participate in society. Secondly, Your information on the satellite connection is simply not correct. In the private budget you can do this, but the connection at satellite level is so unstable that it can be a permanent solution for no company. But I'm getting to the point, I only have 5 minutes of speech. I would like to highlight two topics which have not yet been illuminated, namely the experiences from the previous funding practice and the lessons we as NEOS would like to share with the Minister in the form of a request. There is the funding programme “Breitband Austria 2013” and, with careful consideration, there are some weaknesses that I would like to address in detail now. In this initiative, 149 lots existed in eight federal states with a funding volume of €39 million. Of these lots, 71 percent received the A1 Telekom. Although a certain dominance is understandable due to the size and importance of the company, it has been shown that the design of the funding conditions as well as the award of grants did not result in the fixed network access network being competitive or technologically neutral. In fact, we need to think about how we also allow small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in the competition and that will not promote Telekom Austria. This is a point where I fully agree with you. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lugar.]] Not least, Mr Niko Alm has already said that it is not only cable-bound technologies, but that we can actually achieve a lot on a mobile broadband basis. Even there is not necessarily always the need to move cables. Mobile broadband technology is indeed an alternative in the near future, even in the high mountains, in permanent development and certainly in the near future. Therefore, we demand that a competitive use of public funds and thus a procurement practice be promoted, from which all companies operating on the market benefit as evenly as possible – with equal regard to both the sizes of the company and a regional distribution, so that the billions do not land in Vienna and then are distributed from there. The need for an accurate inventory survey has already been mentioned by Niko Alm. Thus, it can be determined which demand for modern broadband rates of at least 30 Mbit/s is really present. The objectives of the European Union have already been mentioned. This is because the 30 Mbit/s are intended as a target for a hundred percent of the population, but for 50 percent of the population a target of 100 Mbit/s is foreseen. It seems important to us – now I come to the learners – the increased networking of the actors involved, and this is something that Mr Alm has already addressed. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. We have already received a lot of feedback from the communities, namely, that although it is often up to the community centre or to the post the management is actually built, that then the famous last mile is missing. If you look at that, you have to say quite clearly: There are several distribution centres per municipality, and if there are no more slots there, there is no broadband access in Vienna either. We therefore call on Federal Minister Bures to invest the necessary partial revenues of the frequency auction in competitive broadband expansion and, from our point of view, to invest in these technologies of the future, in which we invest, not at once, but in fact to form reserves and never, in any case, to continue to promote them in the form of a foundry principle. It is very important to promote a demand survey, regional survey and there – that has already been said by my colleague, Alm – where it is not a matter of private sector alone, and indeed of taking into account small and medium-sized enterprises. – Thank you and beautiful day!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6483	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:43:51]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6504	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6632	The following templates have also been received: Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the value of cultural heritage for society (200 d.b.) and European Convention on the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage (revised) (201 d.b.). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning these items to committees and to place them on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then I'll go like that. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6670	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform the House that Mr Pilz has requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Pilz's motion for a resolution on Mr Pilz's request for a Federal Act amending the ÖIAG Law 2000 be extended until 8. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6697	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 4 to 8 and 10 to 13 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6723	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 95, FPÖ 88, Green 74 as well as STRONACH and NEOS per 39 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to follow this proposal for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:46:28]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (178, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the Creation of a Degradation Unit (GSA), the Federal Act on the Establishment of a Degradation Holding Company of the Federal Government for the HYPO ALPE-ADRIA-BANK S.P.A. (HBI-Bundesholding Act), the Federal Act on the Establishment of a Degradation Stock Corporation of the Federal Government (ABBAG Act) and the Federal Law on Reorganisation Measures for HYPO ALPE ADRIA BANK INTERNATIONAL AG (HaaSanG) and amending the Financial Market Stability Act and the Financial Market Supervisory Act (188 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6763	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6790	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, many discussions in this House have been repeated on these issues in recent months and unfortunately the impression that one is talking against a wall in vain. But what has become apparent in recent days, namely in the field of nationalization of the Hypo Alpes, which became visible there, is the confirmation that it is manifestly a criminal case. And this crime will be unexplained! With the revelations to be read in the FORMAT last week, there is another evidence that the Bavarian Landesbank deliberately brought about the nationalization! [[Call the ÖVP:Haider!]] – Listening Please call in “Haider ” permanently, he did not live at the time! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No one has done this today, but the haider is really to blame! That's a good idea.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Write in calls!]] The hypo plea is therefore not likely to have been a accidental accident, but was significantly influenced by the Bayerische Landesbank, writes the economic magazine; and in the implementation there was at that time Mr. Ex-Hypo-chef, Franz Pinkl, who had been used in Munich and played an important role in this. – And the Republic of Austria has been completely cut off by the Bavaria, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder! You were the Secretary of State at the time, you were responsible with the Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, during this decommissioning process! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't keep trying to wipe this away! It is a shame that you do not come out today and explain what your role was and for whom you have caused this total damage to the Austrian population, namely taxpayers, in the last place, even in the negative sense. [[Abg. Arbitrators: If the haider hadn't been so shocked, we could have saved all of this! And you're sitting at the floor of the shark!]] The Director-General Franz Pinkl was employed by the Bayern, and he was obviously the driving force for nationalization without need – where you have been telling us for years that this was a nationalization that was carried out in distress. – Without need, and this is obvious today, this has happened, and at that time he has received € 2 million of money for his great advice from the Bayern side. And from day to day, the suspicion is that there has been criminal action by the Bayern LB, the Free State of Bavaria, with the former Minister of Finance Fahrenschon and their handcuffs. This clearly shows that there have been dubious machinations in connection with nationalization without need, and there is also the core of the criminal case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly where full reconnaissance has to be, and not this fairy tale, which you always give to the best that before the damage arose. – No, with the nationalization without need, the crime was actually started. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's where it's going to be. I say this emergency nationalization shows that there has been some wrong here. If one takes the Bayern LB as the former main shareholder, they have also negotiated a say in the further action of the Republic – that is, absurdities that are really such a strange thing! Not even lawyers from the former Finance Minister Josef Pröll were taken there. I really wonder what kind of interests he has been working for. But of course it is that these revelations, according to which the Bayern LB a bankruptcy of the hypo still on 1st. December 2009 explicitly excluded, another clear proof is that it was not an emergency nationalization, but a nationalization without need. Of course, you are now about to close the bag with the mining company as soon as possible to keep the bodies in the basement and to ensure that it does not come up high and high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The then Minister of Finance Josef Pröll and the SPÖ State Secretary of State have given the Bayern €4.5 billion as a gift. This has been your failure, and this is the bitter truth that the ÖVP is not willing to admit, but neither is the Lord Schieder as today's clubman. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I wonder, If the representatives of the Republic knew that no insolvency threatens, why did they nationalize? Why did they discharge the majority owner Bayern LB from his responsibility and ultimately put 100 percent of the damage to the taxpayer, with today's decision you want to strike through, in real political terms? – In addition to the police investigations, it is at last also important to establish the political responsibility for this action, for this billion-severe damage and the debacle, which was also done here. It has been demonstrated several times that there was no need for nationalization. So finally admit that! How often do you want to give the best of the fairy tale of emergency nationalization? It is therefore necessary to clarify what previously hidden motives the political leaders have driven to take this step in 2009. What are the motives? Who tried to protect? Which creditors tried to protect? And why has the taxpayers now been taken into account so that the creditors do not come to the hand-cushion? – That’s exactly what we need to clarify, and I say that these hidden motives are still to be explained! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also raises the question of what SPÖ and ÖVP have to hide in the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. And, of course, with more than 23 applications for the establishment of an investigation committee already filed in the House, 23 times to have to experience that SPÖ and ÖVP have voted against an investigation committee and thus prevent information, which shows that you seem to have a lot to hide. That you are against this Enlightenment and against complete Enlightenment is obviously to be explained by the fact that you obviously need to have a bad conscience and know much better about the circumstances and backgrounds that have led to it. It's a criminal case. It seems that SPÖ and ÖVP are only more concerned with covering up their responsibilities on this billion-dollar debacle and making others accountable, so to speak, – which are not responsible for the compulsory nationalisation, nor for the further years of inactivity, which has then been the case, which once again has potentified the damage and has driven it up by 1.5 billion, and now are not responsible for this worst solution of the decommissioning society; for if at least you do an orderly insolvency here, we could minimize the damage as much as possible for Austrian taxpayers. It seems that you are more useful to third parties and that party-political action is taking place here in the context of today's decision-making that you want to take. A parliamentary committee of inquiry is therefore essential in order to highlight these dark powers without delay. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] That's where you won't be able to cope with your blockade policy in the long run. Her blockade policy of more than 23 rejected research committee applications has led to a deep outrage in the Austrian population – rightly! You can't explain to anyone why you're delaying this. They always come with the argument: We are negotiating minority law in the area of the Rules of Procedure! - Yes, please, that's an excuse! The investigative committee could also take place without minority rights, and you would still have to decide by a majority on this. So you could do it right away. It is a simple excuse that you repeatedly point out that negotiations are under way on the basis of minority law for committee of inquiry and should therefore be made only after that. – You want to gain time, no question. Of course, you want to gain time, and of course, today it is a matter of dealing with this situation as quickly as possible with the decomposition society, so that unfortunately certain bodies of God can be covered and can no longer be discovered. In fact, it would have to be immediately initiated by the Bayern LB to deal with the nationalization and the repayment of €4.8 billion! I wonder why you have remained inactive in recent years. You would have the opportunity and the opportunity to use the legally guaranteed possibility – and there is also a deadline that will be soon to come. And I wonder why you haven't done anything to this day, when it comes to dealing with the return, the possible recovery if the Bayern have cheated here when they have pulled Austria over the table. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And then, of course, it is about the responsibility of Josef Pröll and Andreas Schieder, why they have been pulled over the table, as we know by publishing media today. Unfortunately, the government is too cowardly for this. Instead, we want to decide on a supposed solution that will create even more burden on taxpayers, complete facts, which are to be irreversible. This is the background to today's decision. And the current partial solution with a creditor's stake of €800 million is also more than ridiculous given the total liabilities of over €19 billion. The haircut is too late, it is too low, and for taxpayers it is the worst solution. The taxpayer is again very consciously used by you as a milk cow of the nation. Here we have a responsibility as opposition, also in terms of the fact that you have paid incredible consultant fees, over €450 million consultant fees. [[Abg. Wheeler: FPÖ responsibility!]] This is far from the end, we are likely to face another twenty million euros of consultants. I wonder, What great consultants are those who have done the most expensive damage to the taxpayer and who are still paying more than €450 million for that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is also to be disclosed without delay who, at the expense of taxpayers, is still paying more than €450 million for such an incredibly bad decision and who has fully packed the bags at the expense of taxpayers and who, perhaps close to the different parties, have benefited from it. We clearly support an orderly insolvency in which, of course, the creditors are to be asked for a handcushion by a majority and one cannot claim profits and then transfer the losses nationally and permanently to the taxpayers. It needs a bank bankruptcy order. At last, the banks need a regulation in the direction of the banking business. And there's nothing that's happened to date. This is exactly what shows that you are not concerned about sustainable solutions, but you are serving different interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Insolvency would also lead to the merciless disclosure of all legal and financial links in and around the Hypo Alpe-Adria we want to guarantee. That's exactly what you're preventing with your mining company today. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] So, as has been said, the bodies in the basement remain by their present decision, which, of course, cannot be welcomed by the rule of law, apart from economic considerations. That's the wrong way. Unfortunately, you are not interested in God, with Vehemenz, in preventing an investigation committee, since you seem to know that you have a lot to hide, have a lot to answer for. I already know the strategy of SPÖ and ÖVP to the satisfaction of what is to come today. Once again, one will try to push the blame on the sharks who died in 2008, even though it has not lived without need at the time of nationalization and therefore cannot have any responsibility at all. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] [[Abg. Fekter: The Liabilities!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] The Bank was sold to Bavaria two years before that, and the Bayern were majority owners. And under the Bavarian majority ownership, the bond burden has exploded from €4 billion to €12 billion – in the responsibility of Bavaria, for a long time no longer in the Carinthian responsibility – and also in terms of budgetary development, the budget has exploded from €20 billion to over €40 billion annually under the majority-owned group of the Bavarian Landesbank. And then you want to go here and push responsibility on to others?! - Yes, Mrs. Fekter, just scream! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] You are responsible for the fact that nothing has been done for years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are co-responsible – and then take a look at a newspaper interview and criticize today's Minister of Finance. [[Mr Fekter, Mr Wöginger and Mr Rädler.]] You put it in him! And today you're pretending you couldn't do anything for it. Then put yourself in a position of hypocrisy and give our proposal of orderly insolvency instead of having the courage to agree to us here. Not then always be courageous afterwards, but here in the house you could be courageous today and once you can make a secret vote when it comes to the mining society! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then everyone, according to best knowledge and conscience, could go in and then, in secret agreement, prevent this damage, which is to be done today, together with us. That's why we are! And, of course, we will not let go of it with our demand to clarify it mercilessly and unruly. Faith You're telling me: The next choice will certainly come, and you will receive the invoice presented!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7026	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7048	Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's best if you answer straight. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you've been stuck in a broadcast on 21 January. March 2006 – Your words! –: ‘Strache: Hypo Alpe-Adria: Haider is fully responsible” “Haider couldn’t just clean himself off and get out of the affair, stressed strache.” [[Abg. Wheeler: Oh!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Look!]] So to read in an OTS of the FPÖ, perhaps written by Kickl. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: When did it get nationalized?]] [[Abg. Kickl: When did she get nationalized?]] [[Abg. Strache: When did it get nationalized?]] Listen to me! Mr. Strache, I listened carefully to you. Listen to me when I quote straight! Answer me when I speak! Now you have to listen to what Kickl has written for you and what has been sent out in your name. Listen to me! “The bank belongs to 49.4 percent of the country of Carinthia, which also has the liability to bear” – and this is the key word – “if something goes wrong. [[Abg. Strache: Before sale!]] As a result, “ colleague Strache! [[Abg. Strache: Before sale!]] Listen! Mr. Strache, I understand that you are nervous. [[Abg. Before the sale, Mr. Lopatka!]] I understand you're very nervous. But I ask for understanding that I would like to start my speech now. [[Abg. Deimek: Tell you something from 2009!]] Yeah, if you don't interrupt me, I'll finally talk. [[Abg. Deimek: Who made such senseless sense?]] But you won't like what you hear now, what your partyobmann Strache said to Haider, because that's exactly the view we have. [[Abg. Stefan: 2006! - Oh, my God!]] What does Strache say: “This is followed by a very special duty of care and supervision, which the country of Carinthia has obviously failed to comply with with with with its financial referent, Haider.” And that's the point: “The responsibility,” says Strache, “is entirely with the head of state Haider” – through the liabilities that have been assumed. [[Abg. Street: 2006, exactly! 2006! Before the sale!]] That's right! And that was the reason why in 2009 we were forced to carry out this nationalization in the case of liabilities of more than 20 billion. The Bavaria had easy play with us because the country Carinthia had liabilities of more than 20 billion! This is the point you want to ignore. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And now I'm gonna tell you something: The current Council of State of the Green Holub has the following results in its Committee of Inquiry report. That's why I'm asking for your attention. What does Holub say: ‘It can be found that emergency nationalisation () could have been prevented if, first, ‘all’ operational weaknesses of the Bank had been fixed in a timely and comprehensive manner since 2001. [[Abg. Kickl: He didn't have a single emergency national document!]] In this respect, the political responsibility lies in the context of the national liability of the relevant financial partners” – he argues them – “Ing. Karl Pfeifenberger, Dr. Jörg Haider and Mag. Harald Dobernig.” What else does he say: “In addition, it is found that against the background of guaranteed country liability” – and that is the key word! – “in billions of the total and rapid implementation of the shortcomings in the credit process identified by the internal audit, auditors and national bank auditors, in the implementation of the directive on the control of money laundering, etc. has been carried out.’; [[Abg. Strache: Before sale! You're always talking about a wrong time, Mr. Lopatka! Before the sale!]] [[Abg. Strache: You stay stuck in 2006!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You live in the political Stone Age!]] [[Abg. Deimek: That's embarrassing!]] What else does he say? ‘This did not reflect the country’s interest in safeguarding the assets of the country.’ And now I'm coming to the point. Holub summarizes: “In this context, the emergency nationalization” – and now I am in the emergency stateization – can be “as preventable if corresponding” had been previously responded by the country of Carinthia and would not have been accepted these liability! [[Abg. Deimek: The bank was already sold!]] [[Abg. Strache: You deny the sale!]] I don't have anything to add to it. Strache and Holub, quoted literally by me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you have anything to say about the solution? Do you have anything to say about this situation?]] This is for You're very embarrassing, you're right. And I'll tell you: You're always messing up the arson with the fire brigade here. Here are the arsonists! That's you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (pointing to the government bank) And there's no one sitting in the back there?]] You're the arsons, I'll tell you! - Here's the fire brigade! [[pointing towards the government bank]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't even know yourself on the calendar!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Investigation Committee!]] And you won't be able to exchange fire brigades and fire brigades here now! What Michael Spindelegger is doing here is a courageous step, it is a real step that he is taking quickly. What do I mean by courage? – Michael Spindelegger now also integrates the subordinate believers. [[Abg. Deimek: Today the investigative committee! Or are you not sure? Then you can say no again!]] Now you criticize the fact that the subordinate believers are being involved. Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not trust me that I have the financial expertise, you may trust the Financial Times. ==References====External links== Will you hold on to that on June? – That Austria will do exactly what will be the standard in Europe from 2016 on, namely, that the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, as of 2016, naturally intends to involve creditors. Well, do you want all of this to stay with the taxpayer? - We don't want that! [[Abg. Deimek: Then make an investigation committee!]] That is why we say that Bavaria will play its part here. Mr Strache, if that turns out to be the right thing to do, then this law strengthens the negotiating position of Austria today, I say to you. [[Abg. Strache: There's a recovery action!]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you make a recovery action or not? That's it!]] And although this law greatly strengthens our negotiating position in relation to the Bavaria. And we're negotiating with Bavaria, and we won't give Bayern anything. We cannot give anything to the Carinthians either, because the country of Carinthia will also have to make its contribution in an order of 500 million – and the contribution of the subordinate believers will also be made. [[Abg. Darmann: Carinthia has already made a contribution! Consider what has already been paid!]] [[Abg. Deimek: And you still ask for the checkout! They're cashing, and that's disgraceful!]] We do not care if the taxpayers, who are already being asked to pay for the checkout, have to pay again by 2 billion more. If we did not decide on this law, we would not have these 1.7 billion and not these 500 million of Carinthia. This law, which we decide here today, is in the interest of taxpayers. This is my firm conviction. That is why I say to you: You will never be able to distract from where this debacle has taken its exit. [[Abg. Kickl: When you hear you this way, you know why all that went into your pants in Bavaria!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Due to this bad speech, the FPÖ wins again one percent!]] His outcome took it to Carinthia. A state captain, who was very strong at the time, has gradually increased the liability of 1999. [[Abg. Strache: The ÖVP has agreed to a Hurra!]] Then: Do you know how Jörg Haider saw the hypo? - I have to tell you that. [[Abg. Strache: You were sitting in a boat with the BZÖ at the time!]] He said: As long as the country holds the majority, all bank operations of the hypo are covered in a secure manner – if necessary, the Carinthian taxpayers are in favour of the risks. – literally Jörg Haider. And he also meant: The flagship of its economic pursuits is the hypo. - That's how he saw the hypo. He has extended the liability from 4 billion to 24 billion! [[Abg. Strache: You were in coalition with the BZÖ! We're not! You were in Coalition with the BZÖ 2006!]] Yeah, I'll tell you something. But They were with this Jörg Haider at the time in the Federal Party Board of the FPÖ, as Vienna Landesobmann! You are with this Jörg Haider in a party
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7581	Ladies and gentlemen! The sound level is very, very high in the hall. I beg you to lower him! - Yes, I have to tell you, I don't want to set it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] There are constant calls that are a little too loud. Please, Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7606	Mr Strache, if you do now as if you had never known Haider, I can remind you that you were sitting with him in the Federal Party Board at the time. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: 2006!]] I can remind you that it was Haider who put up the liability from 4 billion to 24. [[Abg. Strache: With ÖVP decision!]] Yes, the other parties in the country were too weak to oppose it – yes, you are right. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. You voted in favour!]] They're laughing. There's nothing to laugh at! The final result we have to work on here today is sad enough! This is not to laugh, neither for taxpayers nor for us. And that's why I'm telling you: You won't succeed in this child-moving. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will repeatedly point out why we had to make this emergency nationalization, why the position of Bavaria was so strong at the time: Because these country bonds were with us! That was the problem back then. We will do everything we can to keep as little as possible the result as possible for taxpayers, which is not a positive one anyway. The law we are adopting today is a very important step in this regard. The negotiations with Bavaria are the next important step. And I'd only ask you for one thing: Try to stick half-way to the facts! [[Abg. - And that from your mouth? That's embarrassing!]] Yes, try to stay half-way with the facts, because, Mr. Strache, you won't succeed as often as you do this unfit attempt here to pretend you never knew Jörg Haider. We know you used to be very good with him. [[Abg. Strache: You were in coalition with him!]] And you were with him in the Federal Party Board, Mr. Strache!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7711	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7733	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was foreseeable not to say that we are not going beyond history, but since everything is being messed up or confused here again and again, either out of inability or deliberately, I will not be able to go about it either. First of all: What is it really about in the bill that tangs or re-creases six sub-laws? . I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, whom I welcome here, and the Secretary of State does not expressly agree to wish to do so, at least in a small part: It is about tax pay protection versus creditor protection. – This is nevertheless still relatively good and neutral. It's about tax pay protection versus investor protection. - But which one? Which investors? It is also about tax payer protection versus – in the case of the Raiffeisen delegates, the Myen – banking protection and insurance protection are darkened. But what are the insurances that have acted like at what time and with what interest and what irresponsibility? I mean, the insured may be the sufferers. Hopefully, it's about the profits. At the same time, however, one does not need to be overly excited – this only in advance – as regards the involvement of the creditors, because it is only a very, very small part. And what has been confused in recent times is exactly this aspect: Who really pays how much? If you look at the headlines of the newspapers, you can sometimes get the impression – I don't know if that was intentional –: Aha, now that's what the opposition has demanded anyway – debt cuts, creditors' participation, investors' pure, Pipapo. Klubobmann Lopatka, too, has not been wrong about this small part, but you are always doing it for so many instead of so many. Yes, it is a little in the direction, at least from the material consequence, that creditors are taken here, as the Union would like to have it for the next few years. You refer to your law where you cut in the very small, but all the more radical, anyway, to Union directives. I think that this is very risky, but I don't just want to talk about it, I really want to go ahead here. In this respect, however, if you want to, the layout – the game, I would have said soon, you have to forbid yourself at this point – is of course a little more complex than before. And at all – yes, we should admit it – it is really not easy. Actually, one could grieve Sinowatz, who said that everything is very complicated – and so it is in this matter. Sinowatz would be even better to me at this point than the current German Chancellor Faymann, who simply does not come out of the basement and does not take a position. The other has at least stood up and said that everything is very complicated. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] That is why, even if this in Austria always leads to confusion or irritation, I would like to continue to maintain this differentiation as far as the approach, the efforts and the energy of the Minister of Finance are concerned, because this is at least something that differs from its predecessors. You just have to say that, whether the solution fits us or not, or whether you would have done it differently. - So much ahead. But now to what it is all about – and if history cannot be left outside, then it should be like this: Yes, well, it's not just a financial crime – and I say it expressly and time and again: Crime – in a way that has never existed in this dimension. We could gather all Austrian scandals among them, so to speak, under this dome: From AKH to Eurofighter everything has space. It's an unimaginable sum: at the end, our estimate, 12 billion plus/ minus – I'm more afraid: plus – damage. You have to imagine this: 6 000 € per family in Austria! And what has not been said here at all or what has already gone down in this headline salad, one must also see: Over 5 billion are already gone, almost 6 billion soon. That is, what we have experienced so far, because we have just been wrongly decided – I'm going to go into it right now – is the result of once again strapatizing the picture, that by this misact of politics – in Carinthia, in Bavaria and then, above all, in the federal government, just from 2008, 2009 – the Austrian families are already €2,000 out of the living room. Then politics goes, runs around with the money, and throws it after the creditors – the €2,000 per family; they can all calculate at home. In reality, however, these creditors have done nothing but finance the Balkan Mafia in a way that is commonplace. This is the process, and this is different from the normal financial crises. And that's why you have to go to work quite differently – not only morally and ethically, because of this diagnosis, but also from the legal possibilities and above all from political reason and on the one hand for reasons of justice, but on the other hand above all for market reasons! That is completely absurd! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and NEOS.]] And that's why – let's say it a hundred times now, because it always comes from your side to my address –: Yes, it was a blue-orange organized – from me, if you want to do so because you are so riding around on it – crimes from the Haider-Gang with a few gangsters in the Carinthian Bank and the Balkans in action. We had all of that, yeah, okay. But that does not dispel us from the obligation – and this is what it is about here and now – to look – and precisely because it was so – as taxpayers get out of it as gently as possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As I said, you already have 2 000 € per family – and that, as I mean, without need! – transferred from the Austrian families via the creditors to the Balkan Mafia. And the same sum is still threatening, and then this is about it. But before, Where was the great Austrian supervision? A highlight of Mr Grasser and the ÖVP! Yes, it was created in 2002! This is actually a spectacular story: Just at that time when all the insanity just exploded, we set up a new financial supervision, a financial fire brigade, to stretch an expression of Clubobmann Lopatka here. – I mean, he doesn’t say anything wrong in the sense either, from my point of view, but he always says hold only one part when we make so much liability. – But the financial fire brigade would also be the supervision, which, of course, was not only politically created but also politically responsible, and this financial fire brigade does not go out when it burns! That's the right picture. Especially you of the ÖVP have created a financial fire brigade that not only does it not go out when it burns, but also has a wheel too little. Get out of here with three wheels! But that would have been the case, because you even took out the water from the water. [[Abg. Mr Lopatka: Mr Kogler! Mr Kogler, may I interrupt you?]] You've created such a financial supervision here! That was the problem! And that's what we're going to have to look at. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Mr Lopatka: Mr Kogler! Read at Holub how Carinthia responded to financial market supervision! Not at all or wrong! When the Financial Market Supervisory Culterer has resigned as the Executive Board, Haider has it as Supervisory Board!]] Klubobmann Lopatka notes that financial supervision has already withdrawn Mr. Kulterer. He's right, but that's what happened because nothing else is left. It was true that Landesbührer Haider – as in the case of the rest of the country's captain Pröll – reacted in such a way that, once she does something, the financial supervision is still criticised by the policy when it comes to a fire alarm. This is a legitimate criticism that I can join. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I will, if I move a little over now, then give up in the speech about the petition for these minutes, but this reaction to Klubobmann Lopatka was worth it because we still want to maintain the rest of the discourse. The real story, even if he always quotes Holub, however, he left out. For example, the Kärntner Examining Committee has not received twice a single act from the federal authorities, no act of financial market supervision, from the central bank – of course always garnished with a few paragraphs. The Ministry of Finance, however – under the predecessor’s predecessor – has also been blamed with letters that are just too hesitant, and now you want to refer to his report. He says nothing but that until the emergency stateization in Carinthia everything went wrong, which can go wrong – yes, he is right – but whether that was right then, what happened in 2008 and 2009, when we pushed the first billions into it, even when she heard the Bayern – that's the sense of mistake! – although one knew that this was a long time ago no more serious bank, but the opposite of it, namely a pyramid-playing mafiaist?- Oh, my God! That is why it is also so important – now we come to the subject of today's law – that we do not protect these investors and creditors from the period from 2003 to 2007. That is the point: they are not well-belief! Many have already known it at the time, which could have known it – almost everyone – but those who should have known that they are no longer to pardon, and investors who enter this bank with billions, all: They need to know what they're doing. At that time, by the way, the party chairman of the ÖVP, like Wurmitzer and Lexer, who remembers them – but they have then been shot – has already made it clear that they no longer want to play with the thing. The story was black and blue had to go on, and bowl did not serve the liability, but the heads of state of the ÖVP. That's it! So if even they had heard of this, the investors would have had to get where the trip is going for a long time. And now you want to pay €12 billion to them – and now we're talking about the real dimensions? Now, in order to separate this: There are at least three groups, including here in the house – therefore the law would not have a majority, from which motives always. So there are three groups: There is the Raiffeisen sector – the term “sector” is particularly appropriate: They want everything to be paid by the taxpayer for reasons that are not to be executed, but which are obvious. Be quiet! There are those who want to keep a little bit of the taxpayer, but take the maximum risk for it: This is the attempt - which I now order - by the Minister of Finance. Finally, there are those who not only want to recover €900 million for the taxpayer, but put them at €12 billion, if we only stay with the bonds held by Carinthia, and that simply go over the path of the current legal instrument, namely an orderly insolvency with creditor participation, but then over all €12 billion, from me also over €15 billion. Now, of course, one can easily argue about this: Is that okay, isn't it? - Yeah, there's a residual risk, too, but we're saying it's okay. We have also had the expert hearing, where sufficient arguments have been put forward for this. The way you wanted to go and which you are now weakening a little by taking the risk with the law-enforcement, for this very small group, which is of course always the simplest as far as the remaining believers are concerned – after the bill, creditors remain loose for 11 billion. I have little risk because the whole tax money goes there. - Well, great for the taxpayer! That's why it's so important that this becomes clear again: It remains the most expensive solution for the taxpayer, which is sought by this law. That's the point. For this reason, we believe that insolvency is the right approach, because these investors should have known what they are dealing with. And what the Carinthians have to say is: Yes May, legally this is certainly very complicated, yes, but there are many different opinions too. It is not at all clear that there is no immediate intervention, that is not true. And even if: There's nothing to get there! The point is yes, everyone had to know that these were always air liability if the liability amount was only the tenfold of the national budget for the hypo. It's unthinkable that this can ever get a real salary. And so it is! We see it: That's it! If you have – and this is really enough for you – always argued and shivered in the direction, why didn't you create an insolvency right for the federal states or the banking insolvency right, for which we have already committed ourselves here? - You don't have that! With regard to the insolvency right for the federal states – which I say we do not need it at all – Bruno Rossmann will make a corresponding request so that we can make the trip at least in the next few months. In 2009, one week before this alleged emergency nationalization – we say without need – I have already put the request here. Who rejected him? – The government parties, who else?- Oh, my God! Then you wouldn't have that excuse anymore. I think she's lazy anyway, but it should also be cut off from you this way, so: Let's decide! Or we proceed according to the current legal order and do so as with the communities. There is a legal practice that the necessary services are naturally preserved. By the way: What's going to happen? – Now I’m finally coming to the hearing results: It won't come that far! The bank doesn't pay. Yes, this will eventually trigger insolvency, but perhaps not the same by putting it under business supervision for one year, just as the European Union has already stated and where our banking law has a point of contact. There will all the creditors – not only those for the 890 million, but all the creditors! – get out of the building and report, because they want to look at their money too. Listen to expert kid! To the so-called investors – in my view, not worth protecting – it is always preferable to have 60 to 70 percent of the demand relatively quickly than to wait in the long term for them to prevail in a ten-year dispute at all. That is the difference, and that is also economically reasonable, only that is denied by the head of government. I know that with the hybrid model you have loved, speculated positively in this direction, Mr. Finanzminister, but this path has been cut off to you, on the one hand, by groups in the ÖVP and on the other hand by the social democrats who always place them against the banks. And there we are now. So the matter of this law is perfectly clear: Overall, we take almost the same risk for a very small part of the creditor's participation, which you would otherwise claim would result in the other solution – worse still, because it is expropriated by law – instead of resorting to the existing legal instruments of insolvency. The evaluation is quite clear: Insolvency, therefore, because it is economically reasonable and much fairer and so it pays those responsible for it. The Austrian taxpayer has nothing to do with this disaster, but very probably the investors, very probably Carinthian politics and very well this Federal Government. You won't get that away, but we'll see you in the investigation committee anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7863	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7884	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think there are two things that need to be clarified in advance. Even if one debated very long and in detail and sometimes loud, two things are very clear, as I believe. One thing is: The political responsibility for the hypo disaster is borne by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Deimek: How was the nationalization?]] – I know that the FPÖ might not be quite that way. Sometimes, on good days, even go out here and say: Yes, we are responsible! But you can't stress it often enough: The political responsibility for the hypo disaster lies with the FPÖ. You can hold that once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: And who is responsible for nationalization? Maybe the colleague was there?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The second is that with this federal law we now choose the hypo-handling, a bathroom-bank solution, a resolution solution and that this is the best solution at all. For years, Mr Kogler It is wrong to point out: Why don't you guys end up doing that? Why don't you finally start the Bad Bank and wrap it up? Only when the government said: We're making a bad bank now and we're going to wrap it up, and he suddenly felt that this was the worst solution. What was the best solution for years was when the government said: Now we do it!,... [[Abg. Kogler: No, it was never the best solution!]] – They are now calling out that this is not the best solution. That's right: The best solution would have been, it wouldn't have happened before, and there are no good solutions, but only bad ones, you're right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] But the least bad one is just – and you yourself have rightly said for years that we need a settlement that we need a Bad Bank; I always supported that, there we were always on the same side – that we are dealing with this bank. – On the day the government said: We do that!, it was suddenly the worst solution. [[Abg. Kogler: Hybrid model with creditor participation!]] So I say that Werner Kogler was right, until the time when the government did what he wanted. Since then, he's not right anymore, because now he's actually going into opposition to himself. It is a pity that there is this opposition reflex, always against what the government is doing, and not to stick to the argument that has been correctly pursued for years, namely that we need a resolution here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] Why do we need this resolution unit? – So that the daughters can now be sold as quickly as possible and at a reasonable price as possible, and that the values available in the bank can be used as well as possible over a long period within the meaning of taxpayers. We support this 100%. The second section of this law concerns the former owners. Once again, with another €800 million, I say to the €3 billion they have already paid – or more than €3 billion – Bayern will be asked to cash out, and there are still legal disputes that this amount could grow to up to €6 billion. If that is true, what is being co-imported in the media, namely that there have been side-letters, that the Bavarian Landesbank has really been cheated, then this only increases the opportunity to increase this contribution of Bavaria – which has already paid over €3 billion and which now still has 800 million, I say, to pay by law – to up to €6 billion, which would be a really good news for the taxpayer. The third part of this law concerns the subordinate believers, and that is what is most debated, namely the question of whether subordinate believers can now be expropriated by law. – That’s something you have to say, the political intention is relatively simple, namely, to involve people as budget-saving as possible or as gentlely as possible for taxpayers, who are taking part without therefore the reputation of Austria at stake and thus the At the end of the day, it will be more expensive than short-term relief. This is the political intention behind it – of course we support them, they should actually all support here in the house. It is unclear – and this was also discussed in the Committee – whether this solution is legal. In any case, I have the impression that the experts from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice have made a real effort to put a solution on the table here, which will also be legal. Whether it is holding at the end of the day, we will see, but the political motivation behind it, in any case, we support the participation of as many creditors as possible, without risking the reputation of Austria without replacing the short-term profit with the long-term loss. That's why we're glad it finally comes to this Bad Bank. Not only Werner Kogler, no, also the SPÖ, and actually even before MEP Kogler – Andreas Schieder was the first to say so in public – wanted this Bad Bank and this resolution for three years. Now we decide, that's what we think is right. We believe that the former owners also make their contribution as far as possible, and thirdly, we also consider it right – politically at least – to participate in the creditors as far as possible without damaging the reputation of Austria. That is why we support this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7984	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8006	Mr President. Dear government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear TV viewers and taxpayers! As First of all, I would like to say briefly: Health is the most important thing in life. If you are healthy, you can really be grateful to the dear God, and if you watch, Madam President Prammer: We wish you all the best for your recovery! [[General condolences.]] On the topic of hypo: I have often said that in principle I very much welcome the inclusion of creditors and not the entire burden on taxpayers, but I believe that the proposed solution will not be legal. It simply appears arbitrary to take part in some creditors and not others. I would particularly like to highlight two groups of creditors today, which for some reason seem to be left out, at least in this law: Bavaria and Carinthia. Actually, you should have converted Bavarian funds into Austria by means of the capital replacement law, and nothing has happened to date. [[Abg. Fekter: It's been a long time! We did this in 2012! We've already done that in 2012! You're sleeping! For every speech...! Such a fool! We've already done this in 2012!]] Why hasn't this happened yet? Do you know why? – Look at the purchase contract, there is the following inside: If ‘(....) the Bank’s viability is no longer guaranteed, the Federal Government will inform the BayernLB in good time in advance and, at the request of the BayernLB, will ensure the repayment of the loans and credit lines of the BayernLB to the Bank.’ Therefore, this problem has not yet been solved: The Bavarian Landesbank has the Federal Guarantee of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At the same time as this was agreed – that is what you have to say – there were in Germany arrests of the owners of Landesbanken, that is, an additional obligation by means of equity, with us it was exactly the other way round. How can you negotiate that way? That's what I think every taxpayer is asking. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And what about this Mr Pinkl? – A police report raises massive accusations against leading members of the BayernLB and Mr. Pinkl, then head of the bank. They should have known for a long time about this miserable situation of the hypo, and therefore they also plan to get rid of the bank to Austria as quickly as possible. Mr. Pinkl apparently collected a bonus of €1.8 million – a bank manager who, by the way, has already demonstrated his ability: He was also very active in the ÖVAG and in the municipal credit, and these were, as we know, not publicly available. Not only that is why I repeat my request: With the Investigation Committee! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The second group: What about the Carinthian and this future fund from sales proceeds? – They do not appear in the law at all. Of course, the Carinthian Future Fund must contribute to the reduction of damage, since, of course, I agree with the Minister of Finance, but why has this not been laid down in the law? By the way, the biggest chuzpe is that the Carinthian politicians still have liability commissions in millions of height for a liability for which they can never stand straight in the normal case. I wonder, perhaps some of us in this House who is ready to be liable for the debts of the entire Republic. Or maybe there are among you, dear taxpayers in front of the TV or here in the house, one or the other who is willing to hold – knowing that he does not have to be held liable anyway. [[Abg. Insanity!]] Please announce your bank connection to the government, you may receive a liability commission. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That you, dear government representatives, cannot do well, prove to the citizens year after year, because you are spending more and more than taking, and then simply stop the budget holes by new taxes. Now, however, it is time to discover various activities that are not covered by the category of non-economic skills. Please allow the investigative committee! Besides, I repeat here, must You're learning something from this hypo-alpe-Adria nightmare! In this respect, I miss any signal from the government. We need a bank insolvency right, we need an insolvency right for local authorities, and “too big to fail” must finally also be addressed in Austria: No bank shall become so large that the State and thus the taxpayers become extortionable to it. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] All over the world, there is no discussion about too big to fail, only in Austria. Why do you reject any opposition request? If you make mistakes, you have to learn from it! Mr Krainer has previously criticized, there is opposition reflex: We're always against it. – That’s not true! If it was a failed proposal, the opposition and with it the Stronach team has already agreed with the government; it concerns the matter and the content. It's exactly the other way round: The government has the reflex to reject everything that comes from the opposition. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's a shame! This hurts Austrian parliamentarism, and this simply does not do well with the reputation of politics. I always try to see a bright little light in the greatest darkness, and perhaps there is an inadvertent side effect here in this irresponsible approach to what the hypo is about, namely that our credit quality suffers and thereby affords debt. [[Abg. Eßl: (pointing on the lamp at the speaker's desk) It's flashing already!]] Maybe that's the wake-up call it needs. Maybe watch. Then you get up and insist that you have to stop this debt making. It's a raid on the youth. Stop making debt! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But I fear that as always, the solution will be easy to increase taxes, introduce new taxes to stop the budget holes. The next tax will probably be the so-called'millionaire tax' you call, and it will become a mass tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But we say quite clearly: We represent the hardworking and hardworking people in our country. It has become virtually impossible to gain a fortune in Austria, but if someone succeeds, then: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] Get away from this money! Let the people work, let them earn something and don't kick it, they're already being squeezed out like lemons. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let the people be free, let them work! If you'd rather take care of the really weak in our society, there is a great need for action, think of the poverty of old age, especially among women! That's why you should act, that's why you should take care – instead of governmenting banks, what you shouldn't, and managing what you can't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8143	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8164	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen as listeners and also spectators! We have heard a lot of fun stories about the hypo, partly also dramatically very good, but we come to the material side and to the solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] A few months ago, in the January of this year, Minister of Finance Dr. Spindelegger took over the management of the liberal hypo-deaster, so to speak, the position of the fire brigade. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] ==References== In March, on the basis of the drafts of the Task Force on the OeNB, Governor Dr. Novotny and some experts, it was possible to decide on a political requirement in the Council of Ministers, which ruled out insolvency and set the course for the mining company. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] On the same day, we remember, the government informed the Members of the House. This, ladies and gentlemen, was a first, very important decision to protect taxpayers and to protect the Republic, because the insolvency of the Hypo and, as a result of the federal state of Carinthia – we all know, if we are honest – would have inconceivable and incalculable consequences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Allow me an excursion: If yesterday, after months, after years of discussion, four experts suddenly meant that the liability of the country of Carinthia had never existed legally, then one can probably only apologise for the fact that there are apparently also experts who are already a little vacation mature. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is unheard of!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The legal basis for the reduction of the Hypo Alpe-Adria-Gesellschaft is now available. It is primarily about selling existing assets on the best possible conditions and conditions, I believe, our common interest in the sense of taxpayers. What are the consequences of today's legislative instruments? – I want to put them in four points, and some differentiations are necessary – difficult in politics, but necessary. First: Degradation units can begin in autumn with the recovery of assets, and this will gradually reduce government debt accordingly. Secondly, The Bavaria loses €800 million through the cut-off of the company loans through the Rehabilitation Act. This reduces the tax burden on taxpayers. Thirdly, The subordinate capital believers lose around €890 million, and – admittedly – more than a beauty mistake is undoubtedly that about 10 percent, which is about €85 million, are affected by so-called oral bonds. I should like to remind you that in my last speech at the special meeting a few weeks ago, I said that we should not hide that this haircut or, as I say very often, headcut can of course have critical consequences for the financial area. In this measure too, Mr Spindelegger – and I think the Minister of Finance has made a clear communication – has in mind the taxpayers, however, for the price of a certain irritation of the financial markets. We know that the confidence and predictability of politics in our country are essential for the quality of the Austrian economic location. Therefore, at this point in the Federal Government, we must also give the order to communicate internationally clearly that the chosen approach represents an absolute special measure, demarcated to the case of Hypo, and at the same time do everything to strengthen Austria's economic and financial location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And finally, fourthly: It must also be ensured, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of these laws the participation of Carinthia. In this regard, the Federal Chancellor has assumed responsibility, and I believe we all hope that he will develop the necessary enforcement force towards Carinthia. Let us draw together the summaries, ladies and gentlemen: First: Dr. Spindelegger has created all the conditions for the solution and for the reduction of the hypo within a short time, within half a year. Secondly, I would like to stress this once again: Insolvency and a related massive damage to our economic location could be prevented. And thirdly, The Austrian People's Party stands consistently and crediblely for the discharge of taxpayers – as in the case of tax reform. You know, no new taxes for the financing of tax reductions. So it's also here at the hypo: The ÖVP stands for the discharge of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8239	Mrs Fekter spoke in favour of an actual correction. I can recall the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8266	Mrs Colleagues For the time being, Rebaur has also claimed – and that is wrong – that the equity replacement law has not been applied. Ms. Col. Nachbaur, the capital replacement law was applied as early as 2012 after the Kleiner-Bewertung and after being supported by the opinion of civil rights activists at the University of Linz. This resulted in a reimbursement of all loans to Bavaria, and the BayernLB had to make billions of repayments in its balance sheet due to this measure, which I have still caused. [[Abg. Rebaur: This has not been picked up to this day!]] Please note that the Capital Replacement Act was already applied in 2012! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the same year
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8315	Madam President, this is a hard thing to do at the very end of an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8339	In the same year, a limitation was also imposed on the bank's recovery, and for an error challenge also by me by the Bavaria. [[Abg. Rebaur: You haven't picked up the money to this day!]] That is why we can negotiate with Bavaria. I've got the Bavaria back...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8376	I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it is correct. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Fekter.]] I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8419	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! We have heard again a lot of polemics and accusations of guilt. Yes, there were also contributions, but from my point of view far too few. That is why I would like to propose: Let us spare ourselves the polemics in this matter at all and shift the blames to where they belong, namely in the investigation committee! [[Congratulations with NEOS, FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] The Examining Committee shall be the appropriate instrument to clarify these mutual charges. Let's save this here in plenary, let's do it in the U committee! At the latest in the morning, I am telling colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP, you will have the opportunity to agree. [[Abg. Eßl: Why don't we do it right there?]] We NEOS also have the right to stop regular mutual damage, to go into politics, to be critical, to objectly criticise, if it is necessary, but above all to be constructive in bringing our constructive solutions into the matter. That is why in May, I would remind you, we presented an insolvency account to disprove the horror scenario. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This was necessary because it did not make the Federal Government and because we wanted to make a constructive contribution. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We followed this constructive path yesterday, we had a joint press conference yesterday with university professor Stefan Griller and discussed the question of the country's liability. Mr Zakostelsky: You four university professors, therefore, because they represent a very legitimate – and I still come – legal opinion, which I do not understand as a vacationer. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is unheard of!]] I don't know what a constructive contribution to this is to be. It's just next to it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Why should we deal with the country's liability? – The country's liability was and remains the main argument of the Federal Government, the main argument for the need for emergency nationalization in 2009. National liability has always been the argument that insolvency has been rejected. And the national liabilities of Carinthia were always the argument that has been said – here we are on the current occasion – that insolvency is not possible, that we need the mining society and that we are discussing this special law here today. But there is already the question of what is worth the country's liability, which is the foundation of the entire argument of the Federal Government? – And that is exactly what we did in this report we presented NEOS yesterday together with Professor Griller: We have looked at the validity of these national liabilities. I have heard that interest has already been notified from the Ministry of Finance, of course we are happy to make the opinion available, but the argument that lies behind it is actually not so difficult. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is also understandable for non-Jewish people, and therefore I would like to ask you, because I assume that you were not all present at our PK yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] What is the argument behind that? – First, you have to take a brief look at the chronology of how these country bonds came to be. As early as 2002, the European Commission has declared in a procedure against Germany that these liabilities are inadmissible for banks, for credit institutions. They violate EU law! In concrete terms, they infringe EU state aid law as they are unlawful State aid. Well, how are other banks going to compete with state banks who have a state liability in the background and can, of course, offer better conditions? I can't do that. That is why the Commission has, of course, said: That is unacceptable, infringes state aid law and is to be abolished! Germany immediately saw this. They have not even been referred to the European Court of Justice, have taken the Commission's decision and have said: Okay, we're stretching our hands up, that's what we're doing! As a result, the EU Commission then, of course, launched a supervisory procedure against Austria in the same year, with a view to abolishing these unlawful State aid to credit institutions. Our Ministry of Finance also said at the time, admittedly after some discussions: Yeah, okay, we'll get her off! There has then been an informal letter from the EU Commission to Austria stating the conditions in which this transitional period has been fixed from 2003 to 2007. – There is no more than this formless writing. This is the only basis for our having any national liability at all. This formless letter! But this transitional period is mentioned in this letter from the European Commission: by 2007, then it is over. The question now is: How could that be understood? Did the EU Commission want to say that, within this transitional period, only more old liabilities can be re-indebted or restructured before they are completely abolished, or did the EU Commission want to say that all new liabilities and associated national liabilities are possible? – These two variants are available. It speaks a lot for the first variant, namely for allowing only restructurings. But even if one follows the second variant and says that the EU Commission wanted to understand this in such a way that for a transitional period of four years all new liabilities were allowed, the EU Commission would have violated EU law that it would have exceeded its borders, because the Commission obviously has a discretion to abolish aid declared inadmissible, but not unlimited. State aid which has already been declared inadmissible to allow for a transitional period of four years for a maximum period of 14 years, in particular to allow new liabilities of € 13.9 billion, which would have cut any discretion of the Commission. So she couldn't even think so, and if she meant it that way, she couldn't. What is the result? – These liabilities are invalid! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] They are not only invalid, but they are also impracticable, and the creditors cannot call upon it. They are happy to sue the country of Carinthia, but we are then looking at how they want to enforce what they want to call illegal aid. I would like to add that this is not an individual opinion. This is not the individual opinion of Professor Griller, it is not just our opinion, but it has already joined other legal experts from all over the country, from Vienna to Innsbruck and back, this legal opinion, other university professors. Now, of course, we can say that they can't do anything, but that's not a counter-argument for me, Mr Zakostelsky. This is a legitimate legal opinion of us and of four highly respected legal experts, and you must first reject it. [[Call the ÖVP:We already have!]] That's what I'm excited about how you do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] What are the consequences, what are the political consequences? [[Abg. Wheeler: Will you tell us right now!]] – This justification – as has been said, the country's liability was the foundation of the reasoning of the Federal Government – is missing. This foundation for the entire argument for the state of emergency, against insolvency and for this current special law is collapsing! Then, of course, you ask yourself: Why did this legal opinion not exist before? Why – and I just don't understand! – have you not already drawn up a legal opinion on the occasion of the emergency nationalization? Why didn't you draw up a legal opinion on the country's liability during the ownership of the Republic, which lasts for almost five years? Why Have On the occasion of this special law, do you not at last draw up a legal opinion on these country's liabilities? I just don't understand! [[Abg. Kickl: Because they find none who writes it to them!]] They fall here in series decisions in the blind; these are wrong decisions with serious consequences for taxpayers, consequences that cost at least €11 billion, probably even €15 billion. How can you account for this from SPÖ, ÖVP and the Federal Government? I'm just saying there's no more excuses now, this time is over. There is nothing in the way of insolvency, orderly insolvency. It is also no longer in the way of a discharge of taxpayers and taxpayers. Mr. Finanzminister – and this is also an appeal to Mr. Faymann, who is always hiding behind your shoulders – it is never too late to take the right path! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8571	Mr Spindelegger spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8592	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This theme of the hypo has long occupied us. We've got it on the 14th. On March 14, this year, a law was passed, and now a law is in place. It was announced by me in March, and is also implemented. In this debate, we have therefore once again discussed all the questions you have raised today. I'm allowed to hold: For me, it was important that we split this mortgage bank into different parts: into a part that covers the network in the Balkans, which is now in the sale process. We are in a sale process with seven providers, and I assume that we will be able to make a decision in the next few weeks so that the active part of the bank can really be given to a best bidder so that customers in different Balkan countries can also be satisfied because the banking process is being continued. We'll have a second part. This is the part where we are putting something to waste, something that concerns all the different assets of this bank, in the establishment of a mining unit that is no longer a bank and where we then have time to make the best possible use of these assets. This is the solution we put on the table, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is necessary that we make a decision today so that this solution can also be implemented this year. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly, There are, of course, different variants, you're quite right. I also say that everyone has certain arguments for themselves. If we look at the other variants again: Is there a possibility in the question of so-called orderly insolvency? I don't know what's supposed to be in order, but it's an insolvency. [[Abg. Kogler: The existing legal order!]] But here we clearly have the legal order that at the moment when insolvency is pronounced, at the next moment all the liabilities that exist – still €10 billion of the country of Carinthia – will be beating. [[Abg. Kogler: The safe legal order!]] At the moment, it says: Insolvency not only of a bank, but of the state of Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen! You can't just talk about that. [[Abg. Stroll: Didn't you listen today?]] Whoever tries to do this today is not properly positioned, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Strolz:... four professors!]] Insolvency of a federal country means inevitable consequences for the population. I am particularly addressing this to the FPÖ, because this, ladies and gentlemen, is child care! For years we have heard: Carinthia is the land on the sun, only there is the healing for the future. Now that it is important to make a decision, there is also a clear statement from the FPÖ, namely: We let the federal state go bankrupt. That is, ladies and gentlemen, every Carinthian and every Carinthian must know what this party, which has been running the country for many years, has left for the population, namely nothing at all! [[Abg. Darmann: against better knowledge a claim...!]] This is child-bearing, and I can't support it in any way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On the occasion, let me also replicate on my colleagues. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You don't know each other anymore. In 2006 he fully criticized what Haider did with this bank at the time. Now we're back in another phase: Now, what Haider did to this bank is being glorified. Only one thing is clear, and I'll just stick to the facts: Whoever sells a bank from the state property of a Bavarian Landesbank for a purchase price of €800 million and assumes liability of the country Carinthia of €20 billion, has not done a good business. Or? – That is clear, very clear! I don't need to think about it for long. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Just imagine that you would inherit a property, a beautiful property. They're happy about it. Then look into the book and see: There is a mortgage on it, which is 25 times higher than the value of the property! - That's exactly what it was, that was the Carinthian deal. This is not a good deal, ladies and gentlemen, you can hold it once and for all! [[Abg. Rädler: Thank you, Jörg!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Thank you, FPÖ!]] I also come to the arguments that have been put forward otherwise. Mr Kogler once again delivered a differentiated opinion. This is very encouraging, I would like to say. From the opposition always just to hear: no, no, no!, and: bad, bad, bad!, he showed a different style. I believe that in this case this is also correct and appropriate. Only we have differences of opinion, you know. If you're talking about a so-called orderly insolvency, I'll tell you again: Orderly means a judge decides everything! There can be They don't order anything as politics at all. At the moment when insolvency has been declared, a judge decides on everything and everyone who comes here. He uses a mass manager, and hopefully he will do the best in the exploitation of the assets. But the final decision is always with the judge. There you can go and order what you want, politics has lost nothing there. That was precisely the question of the inevitable consequences that we have also brought into our assessments, namely, the inevitable consequences for the people of Carinthia. Because I don't think it's worth it: being sent into insolvency. I come to honourable Member Hable. If you would like to give us an opinion by Professor Griller: please! I don't have it until today, so I can't evaluate it either. I can only remind you that this idea has been shared by others. We have a case in Germany, which was much larger dimensionally, namely the West German Landesbank, which also had to be dealt with, where exactly the same liability as they are at home in the country of Carinthia are located at the time with a federal state. Germany has examined this question but has rejected it again. It is obvious that it is a difference whether I put on existing national liability, as it was in this case and also in Carinthia, or whether I am entering into new liability. But give us the opinion! We are happy to discuss what Mr Griller said in this regard. I think that can help all of us. But I can only say: As easy to understand as you say – now a whole house of cards breaks together – this is absolutely not. Let me therefore come to what was relevant to us, namely to exclude insolvency and not to make an institution according to the German model, because this would have meant that we should have spent much more on the taxpayer. We are in the process of clarifying the open questions with the Bavarian Landesbank in a negotiation process. I don't know if this is successful; if not, then the course will be run. A process in the order of €2.3 billion is already pending as to whether the equity is or not. But with this law we take out once again 800 million from this discussion, because we say: That's equity! We are also absolutely aware of this, and that with good reason. Because no one can say, when he is a former owner of credit lines in an institution, that I did not know anything about any difficulties if the State had to issue participation capital before that. This is our argument, and I believe that this is also very well understood. That means no institution because too expensive. We therefore come to what we propose and have a special law that brings three benefits. This special law brings 1.69 billion savings for the taxpayer. Yeah, whoever says that's not all, is right. But whoever says this is little or nothing – ladies and gentlemen, an amount of 1.69 billion is insane money! This is the budget that some resorts do not have at all. I would like to say: We need to save the taxpayer! I see no reason why we should also re-octroy this to the citizens in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The second advantage is: There is no insolvency of the Federal Republic of Carinthia. We have kept Carinthia from this insolvency with unforeseen consequences, with decisions of the judge, whether then a building, a estate of the country Carinthia goes into bankruptcy or not. We saved all the Carinthians. We will pay particular attention to the fact that all those who support insolvency must also look into the Carinthia when they believe that this was the right way. The third reason: We continue to have the lowest interest rates for the Republic of Austria. We only recently issued a ten-year bond with a percentage of 1.55. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historical low for what the Republic of Austria is going to borrow! This shows that our Austrian financial policy is seen as positive by the capital markets, that there has been nothing change in the spreads compared to other countries, that we continue to pursue a very consistent financial policy, but in the case of the hypo, we support a special solution with a cut of the subordinate believers. These are the advantages that are obvious. I therefore believe that it is a good law to which everyone could actually stand and should, if they have anything left for the taxpayer. I did that, and that's why I suggested it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8740	Mr Lipitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8761	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear viewers on the gallery and on the televisions! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor has now stated that this hypo special law was not just a simple one, but also a conflict-stricken matter in recent months. Conflicting because – and this is what my colleague Krainer has mentioned –: If a step or a path has been taken, one has usually been addressed by the opposition that the step is too little or that it would choose a different way. But also those concerned are always very much behind that they are not the ones concerned, but someone else. That is the problem in this area. The opinions were addressed. I had the opportunity to have discussions with some experts, but the difference was: Everyone told me something else. It's been like this for half a year or a year. I believe that – and this has been criticized – a lot of money has been spent on opinions, and now opinions appear that say, well, you could do it all quite differently – a day before we negotiate this law! I think the government has tried by this law to define the path of Hypo Alpe-Adria for the next time to save the taxpayer as much as possible, but also to keep the country of Carinthia and the people in the country of Carinthia out. For we know, on the other hand, was the insolvency in the space that had struck the country of Carinthia and its population immensely. As I said, I'm not a legal expert, but it's always talking about orderly insolvency and insolvency. I just found the insolvency. But in the law I found: “orderly and best possible exploitation ” of“ potentials. ” For this purpose, this law creates the possibility with this sentence, and I believe it is also right. Then: If you say today you make an insolvency, and a year later it comes up that it doesn't work so well, you can't just put the step back, but the decision has fallen. The government became and here in the house today the decision will be made that it takes place in the area of resolution. Of course, we will only come up with what it cost us in about ten years. If it was right then you can't test otherwise. But in ten years' time, the court proceedings will probably also be concluded. One will then also know what the responsibility here is in the area of criminal cases that have occurred in this House. However, I also have to say clearly that the social partners in Carinthia have taken a step before the last election in the country to secure the last 500 million that were still in place in the future fund – if we are now also discussing what the country of Carinthia is making available to create opportunities or make payments for it. However, it is also clear that this bank has served for many, many years as a handcuff for those in charge in the country, that here – and this must now be said clearly, because Mr Darmann shakes his head, you come to speak anyway – 149 million liability commissions have been flown into the handcuff of the then head of state. [[Abg. Darmann: I'm still talking!]] There were no other liability commissions. If that were to be disputed and said that liability would not exist, no one would have paid a liability commission. 149 million have been charged with liability commissions! One thing has to be clear to us, too. The path we have to take today is at the time – Mr Darmann, I would like to address you that you have been chiefly responsible in this federal country of Carinthia, as the Klubobmann representative of the FPK, or 2009. [[Abg. Darmann: Nine!]] Yes, where ‘FPÖ’ stands, FPK is behind it. They were primarily responsible at that time, because then the then head of state Dörfler wanted to extend the liability once again in order to be able to deposit further commissions. [[Abg. Darmann: After the nationalization!]] I'd just say, Shame! The country of Carinthia needs to see that it gets on its feet. What you have been driving in this federal state for many, many years now has to be restored by another government – that is why you have been elected.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8843	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8865	Mr President. Federal Minister! I always hear the word “Jörg” from the ÖVP sector. I didn't know Josef Pröll was named Jörg by his second name. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's only pseudolustious! That didn't work!]] But the ÖVP suffers anyway from a memory gap, I would say under a certain hypo-amnesia because it suppresses the years 2006 to 2014. I'd even say, What you're doing here is political autism. They simply don't want to take note of the truth. [[Abg. Rädler: You, Mr. Colleague!]] Yes, you don't want to take note of it. We have always been aware of the mistakes made by Jörg Haider in the past. But you refuse for the years 2006 to 2014 that they will be examined in any way. When Mr Krainer speaks of a political responsibility: Yes, we also want to take political responsibility! Why vote You're not supposed to have an investigation committee? - I don't understand. There's something wrong with that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the developments of the last few days have actually strengthened me in my knowledge that insolvency is the best solution for taxpayers and for the state, because insolvency is an orderly settlement. Just the court then makes it independent of politics and without any political influence that really everything is being worked up and that the truth comes to light. Perhaps we would even save ourselves a committee of inquiry if the court showed it. But They want to prevent this, so we have to call on this committee of inquiry permanently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the event of insolvency all creditors are treated the same way, there are no first and second class creditors. There is then no special expropriation, as we are doing now and of which more than 250 000 workers were directly affected at the end of the day, and at least this was communicated to us. The fact that there are distortions on the market is that, as an argument, I am quite right to allow them to a certain degree. But we now have these distortions on the market the same way, so there is no difference for me. That is why we can also take a look at insolvency. A dish is simply for everything to be explained in a complete way. There is more and more truth coming to mind. The “Format” newspaper has published a very interesting report these days and it has certainly found that the Hypo Alpe-Adria was not an accident, but the BayernLB has deliberately let the Hypo Alpe-Adria slut into the pleite. That's what we've been saying for years. The person Franz Pinkl was put in the foreground. He was even granted “format ” in a side letter: When he reintroduces the Hypo Alpe-Adria to the Austrian state again, he is to receive a premium, according to the motto “Bayern out, Ösis pure”. That was the assignment he had. He was only from 1. ==References====External links==*Hypo Alpe-Adria website That was his only task he had, and he did it quite successfully from the BayernLB's point of view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This gentleman was previously Chairman of the Supervisory Board at the municipal credit, then he was managing director at ÖVAG, and he finally hung this millstone around the state. This role must be questioned at the end of the day. 8.2 billion could have lost Bavaria in a hypo plea. Now we have taken over this risk from Austrians. Well, thank you! But also in the Committee's expert hearing, what Dr Kleiner said was quite clear: the cheapest solution for taxpayers at the end of the day is insolvency. He has shown a clear preference in this direction. If I heard Mr. Kumpfmüller from the FMA today in the “Morgenjournal” that was already a very halfhearted defense, I would almost say a lukewarm defense, because the OeNB is not 100% behind it at last. Governor Novotny himself said that this debt was not typical of Austria. Then you know what bad things Feel these gentlemen having it. Mr Hable pointed out: If university professors and constitutional lawyers show this, if Professor Griller, Professor Obwexer, Professor Mayer, all claim that these liabilities would have become, not only under circumstances, but to a certain extent, not to a certain extent, then one should have thought through an alternative. But as often as you hear just off the sides of the ÖVP again and again: It's an alternative. – There is always an alternative! The financial procuratorship – I repeat it over and over again – has also called for insolvency. But with this Hypo-Alpe-Adria Rehabilitation Act, today the Mr. Vice-Chancellor has said, becoming 1.69 billion – I was familiar with 890 million we are... [[Vice chancellor Spindelegger: The 800 from Bavaria!]] The 800 of Bavaria, well, I take note of; together, I take note! [[Call the ÖVP:count!]] But these 890 million that come about by this creditor cut: In turn, the President of the Banking Association, Cernko, pointed out that there will be refinancing costs of €1.5 billion. So, too, under the rule, the taxpayer pays again. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are so many cross-links that are simply incomprehensible to me or that are inconceivable. For example, the country of Lower Austria in 2013 took over liability for the multiversum debakel in Schwechat and thus also prevented insolvency as in the case of the hypo. And who's the creditor's bank there? - The BayernLB. So there are quite links that belong to them, and so I can only repeat my claim and the opposition's request over and over again: Let's set up a committee of inquiry so that light gets into the dark! I can end my remarks with this: Unlike the former Federal Minister Fekter, I also have a bad stomach feeling, but my abdominal feeling tells me that I will never and never agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8971	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8993	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, I note that all the parties in the Carinthian Landtag have agreed on these liabilities. [[Abg. Kogler: He'll start like that again! We voted in favour of the expiry of the liabilities!]] All the parties have decided on these liabilities in Carinthia, which is documented, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Moser: Stay with the truth!]] Secondly, I also note that the Freedom Party, as long as it had the main responsibility in Carinthia, has shown us that this country is the best. Hard to pick her, we'll send it to insolvency. – So much for responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! Keep in mind, Mr Kogler, that there are already a few things – on Raiffeisen I will come back later, Mr Kogler, because you have a bigger problem here. [[Abg. Kogler: For raiffeisen!]] So hold on is also: Why did this huge problem and this damage come about? – There are a few things: the political responsibility, those in the bank and those of supervision as well as those of the rules. First: I mentioned the political responsibility. That the bank managers thought you could do and leave what you want – the bigger, the better, the better – and that you were obviously not able to slow down these rulerships either on the Supervisory Board or on the other hand, I regret. We all have the damage. Thirdly, the question of supervision. I remember the excitement there was when a Federal Minister gave an advertisement so to speak in Micky-Maus-Größe. – As raw reports from the Court of Auditors have seen the light of the world, there have been media stories: Scandal! and the Minister of State is presented to the Public Prosecutor's Office and so on. – I have never seen a report of the Court of Auditors on this country’s liability, which is more than ten or twelve times the entire Carinthian budget, and I have not seen anything about it in the media. That's where you looked. Obviously, one has had a conscious interest. Because the question already arises: Where was the Court of Auditors on the question of superfluous national liability in Carinthia? Where was Carinthian supervision in this context? – To present this question would also be interesting. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Investigation Committee!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the FMA has imposed measures late, but still: Kulterer was called up – but for this, he was appointed as the head of the Supervisory Board through a trick and corresponding measures by the head of state Jörg Haider. That would also have to be questioned. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Of course!]] Ladies and gentlemen, and the next question is also interesting: Why are the banks so happy to give the money to countries, to states? - Because they don't have an obligation to provide information here. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's it!]] It is exciting to have to perceive that if I forgive a very good company a credit or a loan, I have to lower it by almost 9 percent, but if I forgive it to a state with a state of junk status, I have nothing to do with it. That's an exciting story. Here too, we need to think about what is stated by Basel II and Basel III, so to speak, on rules. That's interesting, too, because we know that it's much more expensive for the bank. Another point because Raiffeisen and the hypo and so on are always addressed: Do you know that the hypo is not directly connected to the Carinthian Hypo, but connected via the Pfandbriefstelle? So they are in the hypo connection and therefore have a limited connection. The total amount of all Austria's hypos with regard to the Hypo Alpe-Adria – which has been borrowed or signed by the Pfandbrief office – is no longer 1,216 billion – is no longer less and no less. 1.2 billion is a clear sum – no trifle, undisputed! – but not one federal country – not one! ., neither Lower Austria nor Upper Austria nor any other, would have difficulty presenting this in the balance sheets. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] Also not Raiffeisen, so that this is also clarified. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but the reduction of damage within the framework of the possibility. It is difficult enough, but in the end one is responsible, and this Federal Minister has once done what Mr Kogler himself acknowledged: he has at least taken important and, I say, right steps!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9122	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9143	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Auer, if you stand out here and say something that is not true, you should look at what has actually been decided by the Greens in Carinthia. [[Abg. Auer: Consistency!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Without word message! Not even a word!]] – Look This is what you're looking at. In connection with the hypo, the Greens agreed to a single proposal, Mr Lopatka and Mr Auer, which was the EU's definition and the expiry of the liabilities of the country of Carinthia. [[Abg. Lopatka: Without word message!]] This is the truth and nothing but the truth! Everything else is interpretations from your side that are grossly negligent and wrong! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, you were grossly negligent!]] Now to Mr Zakostelsky: Mr President, if you stand out here and call four university professors, from Professor Griller to Professor Obwexer, to Professor Mayer, to Professor Rebhahn, a vacationist, because they have written an opinion, I cannot ignore that as simply arrogant! [[Congratulation with Greens, NEOS and FPÖ.]] Second, Mr Zakostelsky: For you, the history of the hypo obviously begins only with the decision of the Minister of Finance Spindelegger for this solution that we have to find today. Everything is wiped away from what was previously – from the misconceptions regarding the allocation of participation capital to the 2008 Hypo, to the emergency stateization without need in 2009, the subsequent sleep phase among finance ministers Josef Pröll and Maria Fekter, to the subsequent electoral suffrage phase of Maria Fekter, where she left the electorate unclear about what the hypo actually looks like. And finally, it went seamlessly into what I wanted to call the insolvency phase. Because one thing is clear: You, Mrs. Finanzminister, have used this task force, but the task force has long not dealt with the decision of insolvency, but has always focused on the Bad Bank solution. [[Abg. Fekter: But I do!]] – Yes, you are now at all the insolvency fancier, as I have seen the media. Reason for this today, sign up and stand by what you have said to the media. [[Abg. New builder: You can't talk! She's not even on the speaker list!]] The fact is, and I cannot save either the Task Force or you, Mr Finanzminister, the insolvency solution was never and at no time sufficiently tested. What was done: As the state would have higher financing costs, insolvency would destabilise the banking market in Austria, and the liabilities of the country of Carinthia would immediately be beaten. I listened very carefully in the news yesterday, what Professor Griller said. He said that the country of Carinthia must not let the liability become effective. – This is also the crucial point on the issue of insolvency, and then the whole death row arguments no longer count, the killing arguments such as – especially those of the SPÖ – an insolvency would mean that immediately kindergartens would have to close down, that hospitals would have to close, and so on. But one more thing Professor Griller said yesterday. He also said that insolvency is still possible even after a decision of this special law. – This is also an interesting point. But let us now turn a little to this law as such. You, Minister of Finance, say that it is a law that minimizes the costs for taxpayers. – I can’t accept that in this form. This was also said by Mr Zakostelsky. If you had anything left for the taxpayers, you would have presented here and today a law that brings all creditors into circulation, and not only selected subordinate believers of € 890 million and the € 800 million of the Bavarian Landesbank you mentioned. That would be the solution! That would have been the direction to which one should have gone and which one should have examined much more carefully. Because one thing you didn't do: They – and also the Task Force – did not allow risk-based evaluation of options for all possible solutions. They simply did not act professionally in the banking sector, because you did not sufficiently examine the risk in the event of insolvency, as the risk in the case of a Bad Bank with the participation of the subordinate believers is, which options would have existed in the event of insolvency, which would have meant for the federal government, which would have meant for the country of Carinthia and how much the tax burden on taxpayers would have been actually lower. These risk-based assessment approaches are lacking both in the opinion of the Task Force and in this special law of the Hypo. And a failure is added, namely the insolvency law for the federal states. If you had already created an insolvency right for the federal states years ago, then everything would be much easier. But you slept there, too. That's what you slept. And according to what your colleague, Mr Brandstetter, said, you do not intend to work on such insolvency rights for the federal states in the coming years. I find that, quite honestly, scandalous. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you are already starting to wage war against the creditors now, Mr. Finanzminister, with an uncertain outcome, by the way, if you are concerned about democracy, you are probably not legally sustainable, then I think that Dr. Kleiner, who has told us in committee as an expert: If we start the war against the creditors, then with the right weapons. – And the path was marked by little ones: insolvency. And he also called us the instrument and the corresponding law on this: the banking law and the supervision that can be derived from it. Mr. Finanzminister, it's not too late yet. If you really want to save taxpayers as much as possible, then once again, with all the means available to you, check the possibility of a hypo's insolvency, because I am still convinced that this would lead to the most affordable solution. And if you do not, I can assure you that we will discuss this issue in the Banking Investigation Committee for a long time. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9275	The application which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9333	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9354	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Seers! There is probably hardly any subject in the House in the last few weeks and months it has been so intensively discussed. Let me once again put the most important arguments for this hypo special law on the table from my point of view. On the one hand, this hypo-special law – which has already been mentioned several times – prevents the insolvency of the federal state of Carinthia. Of course, there are also good arguments for insolvency, which have already been addressed today, but there are, of course, high risks remaining. Politics is also a weighting of risks, and after a careful examination – the Federal Minister has often mentioned this – one has spoken against insolvency and for the federal state of Carinthia. The risks to the federal state itself – which means using a mass manager, which means that for the south-eastern European financial market, which means for the financial market Austria and for our refinancing costs – have been eliminated. In return, however, one also – and that is very important – has a role to play in this solution for believers who believe in it. The major demand is: If there is no insolvency, what happens to the creditors? Why do not the creditors contribute to this? – This law provides the basis for the participation of creditors – those are creditors who have simply received higher interest rates and thus also carried higher risk – in this solution. Thirdly, also a very important argument: The old owners, the Bavaria, will be involved in this solution. The responsibility of the old owner has been addressed several times. And these €800 million are a very important contribution to the discharge of the taxpayer. Fourth: By this law, one creates a support for disputed liabilities until 30. June 2019. It may not have been addressed today – I think the most important thing for the mining company is that this bank is coming into a calmer water. Everyone's always talking about the bank's liabilities. The Bank also has assets. And it will be very, very important that these assets can be handled to the best possible redemptions. Very important, the fifth argument: We are creating a much better negotiating position with Bavaria by this law. We all know together that negotiation is always a question of negotiating position. It has already been mentioned today, we have the limitation, we have the possibility of mistreatment. And this law also strengthens the negotiating position of the Republic, with the common interest in keeping the damage to the Republic as low as possible for taxpayers. With this law – and this is the sixth argument – we are making an advance on what is law at European level from 2016. We're making Bail-in, that is, we're getting the creditors into the responsibility even now. And that's always the most important thing for me personally: What lessons have we learned from this disaster? – Bank insolvency is coming. The Bank Insolvency Fund is coming. I think this is a signal to the taxpayer that the correct lessons have also been learned from this disaster. This is very, very important to me personally. Then, of course, the great question of legal certainty: Is this law also an obsessive decision? – There is here a legal opinion of university professor Raschauer, who is also very clearly addressing the important public interest in this law and also the burden-sharing justice between creditors and taxpayers – this has already been mentioned by colleagues Krainer. But today it is primarily a matter of political will. lens formation: Do we also want to have the participation of the creditors? Do we want to have the participation of the old owner in this settlement? – Therefore, one should and should actually accept this law. Eighth – a very important argument, perhaps one of the most important: How does this law affect our financial market? – Mr Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned it, I think that it is very, very central: If you look at what has happened since the announcement of the solution or the way in which this decommissioning society is set up, the refinancing has even improved. The distance to the Germans is now 24 basis points. That is to say, the financial market has responded very, very calmly to this issue – obviously also from a financial market point of view a very good solution. Nine - to mention this is also important to me -: We also need the participation of the Federal State of Carinthia. This is not to be taken from the agenda. There is of course also a view of the Carinthians, you should not forget that either. Carinthia has very poor structural data, and we are also responsible for giving the Federal Republic of Carinthia a perspective. Carinthia has very poor structural data – one could also say that the liberals in Carinthia have run down the country for many years – and we have a common responsibility to go in the right direction. And tenth is the most important argument: This hypo-degradation law relieves taxpayers – €1.7 billion, which would certainly be budget effective even this year. This is the good news for the taxpayer. That's why it's a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9423	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9445	High house! Yes, Minister of State, you said it today: Customers in many countries can be satisfied. And I'm convinced of that. They will also be satisfied because they do not pay. The only ones to be asked for the checkout are the Austrian taxpayers. And that's where the question arises: Why is that so? They also talked about the fact that the Carinthians had been liable with €22 billion in bankruptcy – i.e. if the creditors were actually paying. That means that the damage to Carinthia and, of course, to the Republic would have been up to €22 billion. Now at the end, about half a year ago, when we discussed bankruptcy or not bankruptcy, it was only €10 billion. For €10 billion the taxpayer should have been liable, the whole would have gone bankrupt. Look Now, what's in the law? Is there €10 billion that will now be passed on to the taxpayer? Will there be €15 billion? – No, it says and writes €22 billion in the law that is now imposed on the taxpayer. [[Abg. Hanger: You don't understand!]] – I understand very, very well. Look, the €22 billion were never all beating. In other words, the question of bankruptcy would have been: What is actually beating and what is not? I have been calling Mr. Picker for a very long time, and he has also informed me that he would have expected a maximum of €4 billion. And that's the point. That means that what you are writing into the law now is only a maximum amount, just as at that time the liability. And this maximum, which is now in the law, is €22 billion and not the €10 billion that still sleeps in Carinthia. That's the problem. When you look at that, you wonder who's making such a deal. Who does such a thing? – The answer is simple: There are political interests here. Some creditors are protected, and others are tried to ask for the cash desk with very hateful solutions – in order to get it to the point. Who should be protected here? – Mr Auer von der Raiffeisen knows it and has also said it here today: It is about this 1 billion € that Raiffeisen or the Liability Association should pay, in the bankruptcy case. [[Abg. Auer: The Hypos. The federal states too! Watch out!]] It's about 1 billion €. In order to save those who are married to the ÖVP, one is also prepared to hand over €22 billion to the taxpayer. That is the reality in this country. Those who do not believe it must only listen to the Minister of Finance, who has said words of revelation today. He said that in the case of bankruptcy, incalculable risks would arise. He has explained what an incalculable risk is. An incalculable risk is if policy can no longer intervene. Imagine that! Then there comes a judge and decides without politics. Where's that? That's the problem. The Minister of Finance can no longer drive out the uncle Erwin, because then he no longer has any influence. Here comes the judge and decides, and we don't want to. That's exactly the problem: Unfortunately, many decisions are made in this country politically and not with domestic understanding. On the route remain those who have nothing to say in this country, namely the taxpayers. Have you ever noticed that? You always hear: We will involve the believers. – Have you heard recently of anyone from the government that we should talk about the bond of liability? There's a bond of liability. You always talk about the evil Carinthians who have entered into liability, but also the hypos have entered into liability. Have you ever talked about it before? They should be asked a little bit to check out. – But no, these are the friends of the ÖVP, we leave them on the outside! What development is there yet? – There is a so-called orbánization of the Austrian Federal Government. In 2011, the Minister of Finance in the “Kronen Zeitung” complained that evil Viktor Orbán in Hungary is making very bad laws that damage Austrian banks. Loans that they received – also with a certain risk – were simply set to a exchange rate and thus, according to their statements, provided the banks with €6 billion in potential losses. That's where he complained, Minister of Finance. For God's sake! Contracts must be respected, legal certainty is lacking! That's not how it is! We're going to complain to Viktor Orbán. And what are you doing? Viktor Orbán at least scraped all the banks. He has not only dropped the First Bank, because Mr Treichl once said that all politicians have been brainwashed. But you pick out the creditors who fit you, who are politically not married to you, and you pick up on them and hope that you will get through with it. But you don't get through with that. Finally, it is a political action. They are deceiving activity here to involve the creditors, but in reality the only chance to involve the creditors in such a way that this also holds the legal course of bankruptcy. But you can't do that, because then the uncle Erwin would have to pay, then Raiffeisen would have to pay, and that's not possible in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] In this country, there are those who pay, these are the taxpayers, we know. They have a lot of exercise in asking them to check out; that is, to say, the beard law. But if the uncle is to pay Erwin or the rapeisen or your friends, then special laws are made that do not keep, but one hopes that they will only be exorbited after the term of office. [[Abg. Prince: So much ignorance!]] That's the calcule behind it. In conclusion, Minister for Finance: Don't scatter us sand into the eyes! Tell the truth! The truth is simple: In order to save very small losses, the maximum losses are imposed on the taxpayer. Before the next election, there will be an election sugar, which will of course also be financed by pump – that is clear, so it works with you – and then everyone will choose red and black again. Hurra, things are going as far as they used to be! – This is your calculation, and I hope it doesn’t occur this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9526	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Stroll reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9548	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear citizens in front of the screens, here on the galleries! Beautiful greetings to Gramais in Tirol! I just got an e-mail from Karl S., who wrote: We are following today's National Council discussion about the ORF, and we have hardly understood what it is all about. My concern: Would it be possible for you, on your next round, to tell us voters in short and concise terms, at the language level of the simple people in a few sentences what this hypo matter is all about? - Quote. Mr. Karl S., I do. Gramais is the smallest municipality in Austria, with 47 inhabitants in the district of Reutte. Mr. Karl, this is about the hypo special law. The Minister of Finance has brought this in. I think it is well known that about four years ago we made the hypo necessary – without any need – for us as the Republic, that is, under the leadership of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Abg. Darmann: Who? “We”?- Oh, my God!]] We see today quite clearly that it was an emergency stateization without need. At the time, we let the Bavarians pull us over the table. Certainly there was a great pressure in the negotiations that lasted until the night, but we did not make a good figure, and we have invested quite a lot of money since then. So far, we have invested €7.7 billion in state aid measures. [[Vice Chancellor Spindelegger: The ÖIAG also!]] Not everything has been burned yet, but in total much more than this €7 billion will be burned; €5 billion has already been burned. Mr Karl, to illustrate how much this is: We have around €8 billion per year for the teaching budget. That is, we have already spent almost as much as we spend on schools, and we have already spent twice as much as we spend on all college students, for all universities, technical colleges in Austria. And probably so much is added again. So we could say to all students at colleges and universities: If we stay at home for two years, we have to close all these institutions, we have lost so much money! However, the Minister of Finance must be kept accountable that he is not yet in charge of it for so long. I think it is good – at least one word of respect in this direction too – Mr Spindelegger, the Minister of Finance, that you finally address this, because the disaster is also justified, of course, by the fact that the ÖVP-SPÖ government has put its head deep in the sand after the emergency state. You were overwhelmed with this bank and didn't know what to do. Then the 2013 elections came, and you should have done something. But you knew if you put the numbers on the table, then you would lose the elections, and that's why we haven't been taught about the true content of things. I'd say we've actually been confounded, we've been cheated. The Minister of Finance is now acting, only I would naturally expect the Federal Government to act not only but also to do the right thing. But that's not the right thing, it's the wrong thing you're doing here today, and that's why NEOS isn't going along. I have brought five more reasons for Mr Karl, but also for you, Minister of Finance, why we do not go along. First: The decision to decommission the company in this form is economically wrong, because it is not the best solution for the taxpayers, for the taxpayers. You know, you burn money with it. We've figured it out to you. An insolvency, i.e. an orderly bankruptcy would cost €2 billion, and here we will probably deposit more than €10 billion in money if it goes badly even up to €18 billion. [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: That's your bill!]] Secondly, Hypo-special legislation is legally wrong, Minister of Finance. Why? – Because it calls into question legal certainty in Austria. People have invested there, of course, in confidence that Austria holds the promises, but we do not. They take an area of creditors at random and say: You're not getting anything back, but others are! [[Vice Chancellor Spindelegger: That's wrong!]] This is extremely arbitrary and also non-sustainable in Europe. You say you are referring to a legal matter that will apply from 2016. – This is true from 2016 onwards. So, of course, we cannot make a good figure in Europe, nor will we be a viable partner for the people who want to work with us economically. [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] Thirdly, It's politically wrong. Why? – There are now surveys that have shown that 70 percent of the population say insolvency would be the right solution. That also means that there are no majority voting here. Fourth: It is morally wrong because you simply select certain creditors and say: We do not shave you 100 percent and others at all! - That's expropriation! It is morally not okay for a state to act in such a way that a finance minister acts. This weakens confidence in politics. [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger.]] Fifth, you open a bottle The basis of decision is wrong because the liabilities of the country of Carinthia no longer hold; they are illegal. We have proved this by university professors; now there are four professors who declare themselves here, and more will follow. They haven't checked that, and that's inexcusable. And then, Mr Karl, it is particularly tragic that this Federal Government is not even willing to learn from the mistakes. We have submitted applications for the federal states to disclose the liability. – Red and black don’t want this because they don’t want to believe it to be their national leaders, but I want to believe it, as a people’s representative. I want to know where the money is from us. They did not suffer the consequences in the sense of insolvency law for federal states, so that they could not say next time: We cannot do that, we lack the opportunities to do so! [[Call the ÖVP: Shit!]] Yeah, then we have to make arrangements. You don't want this because you're not willing to learn from mistakes or for whatever reason. Finally, you have not shown the willingness to implement a modern bank insolvency law, as the Germans already have, otherwise we would have the opportunity to attract creditors. The Germans have been having this for two years, and we do not have it, and that is why we are calling for NEOS to vote for it. We want to know from all of you whether you are voting in favour of this law. The former Minister of Finance has said she has abdominal pain. I know from ÖVP Members that they would consider an insolvency solution for the better, for the more voting, for the fairer solution. [[Abg. Oh, my God!]] And, Mr Karl, I am unfortunately not able to explain to you why some members of the ÖVP would consider the insolvency to be the better solution, but will still vote against it today. It's a great mystery why you're voting against your own conviction, but it's probably going to take place today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9677	Mr Magnificent. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9698	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Appreciate spectators on the gallery and at home! If the debate has been pursued intensively in the last few hours – I do not use the word “purchased” for nothing – then one as a politician, but certainly also as a citizen and taxpayer, has noticed which interests are being pursued by which parties, ladies and gentlemen. Don't you think, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that the population would have deserved an objective discussion about the resolution of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, one that does not repeatedly lead to inconsistencies, apparently due to the lack of arguments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I am not looking at Mr Lipitsch without a reason, who would not have to act in this way here in the House. Obviously, as a remote-controlled party soldier, he had it necessary to either be guided by the Carinthian SPÖ Party Centre or by the Vienna party headquarters, to play on matters in his speeches and to be personally intertwined, to attack Members personally, and not to frighten back, as Carinthian MPs, to go out here and to paint with fear to the Federal State of Carinthia some devils who could never have existed and could have met the Carinthians. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Very objective!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Go!]] I believe that what is partially delivered here is hardly yet to be exceeded, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This lack of responsibility seems to be manifestly living in a world of its own, to distort reality to this extent – yes, I am going to justify that already, Mrs Colleague, I am going to justify what I am now saying; this is the difference between your colleagues in these speeches – and my own history falsification. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] This is a history falsification that results in you saying: We, the SPÖ – the ÖVP – have at least agreed that there was a joint responsibility for the country's liability in Carinthia – cannot remind us of this. But fact is that – and this is also to be read in the protocols of the Carinthian Landtag – the basic idea, namely country liability for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, has come from a SPÖ council in the early 1990s. This is a fact that cannot be swept away. I'm just trying to justify it, ladies and gentlemen, that's why you don't have to get some air to articulate here. You are cordially invited to object, but you will not succeed. In the 1990s, the ÖVP further pushed forward the expansion policy of the Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank in the East and South-East of Europe in its responsibilities. The extension of the country's liability from 2000 onwards – which has already been held today – has been decided on at one time or another by all political groups in the Carinthian Landtag. You can't go out here – Mr Lopatka is now at the back of the government bank – and say: Yes, it was just like that, we were not strong enough to be able to resist it if a strong national captain and financial referent desired something! – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is: They had the majority in the Carinthian Landtag with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens and could have prevented everything at any time, and that for decades! This is a fact that cannot be denied. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go one step further: Then, after this time, which is rightly criticized and in which there has been very strong expansions of the state's liability, there was a irrational expansion policy of the new owner, the Bavarian Landesbank. That was the time of the economic, financial and real estate crisis, and all the other financial institutions have rather withdrawn from the East, but the new owners have invested in devils coming out and opening new markets. The investment was made there, and bonds worth €8 billion were also issued in this phase. That no one then comes from the SPÖ and the ÖVP the idea of illuminating and criticizing this time also speaks for himself, but not for you, ladies and gentlemen. This alone would be a sign of sense of responsibility to the Austrian taxpayer, to say: This time is clear! This must be a segment of an investigation committee that should have started for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't have time to go to the country to delay a corresponding reconnaissance of many facets of the Causa Hypo-Alpe-Adria for a few more months. The past and political responsibility, especially in nationalization, which finally transferred a Bavarian, a German bank to the Austrian taxpayer, and also the deep sleep phase of the former and current federal government must be reworked. [[Abg. Krainer: What political responsibility should there be?]] This low sleep phase has devoured € 350, 400 million in consultants' costs, but only caused damage to this failure – in criminal law, for example, the neglected assistance that is punishable – due to this neglect of a necessary activity. Experts claim that only the inactivity of the former Minister of Finance Fekter, who has not even been present here, has increased the damage to taxpayers by up to € 1 billion and more, ladies and gentlemen. This is the highest level of responsibility to citizens in this country, which is to be developed as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I do not just want to stop in the past and with the Enlightenment of the past. Citizens rightly demand: If there is already a committee of inquiry, he should also bring something for the future! The opposition parties are aware of the possibilities of the Investigation Committee, SPÖ and ÖVP; therefore, they will apparently also prevent any information concerning the non-performance, the non-activities of the federal control authorities. Finally, events such as the case of damage around the Hypo Alpe-Adria in other federal states could be excluded in the future. This is a responsibility to the citizen: to draw his conclusions from the events and to stop them for the future. However, you prevent this by entering this matter accordingly. Finally, of course, it is a question of how we will finance all of this, namely the damage that has been done and the damage that still exists. To that end, we say the liberals: We cannot use the taxpayer so easily, because first we have the homework to do the homework. First of all, there is an administrative reform that is long overdue. You all know that there are 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors that could bring up to €12 billion in administrative savings in the year. Of course, we could also use it, even if we only partially realize it to prevent damage from the citizens, from the taxpayer. We should start with ourselves, reform and push the administration back where it is inflated and no longer necessary. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] In this context, however, we also need experts who can implement such an administrative reform, experts who need to be located in a Federal Ministry in order to take responsibility to us and to give us a speech and answer. On that point, we shall bring forward a motion for a resolution on the saving of the Secretary of State Mag. Sonja Steßl in favour of a State Secretariat for Administrative Reform in the Federal Chancellery. In this context, I do not want to say the following: Don't take that personally! This concerns the function of your office, Mrs State Secretary, an office without responsibility, which costs taxpayers a lot of money and makes nothing positive for taxpayers. [[Interim remark by State Secretary Steßl]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only responsible way, ladies and gentlemen, would be to use this Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria as soon as possible positively for the start of a comprehensive administrative reform within the meaning of taxpayers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9863	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Darmann is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9937	Mr Klubobmann Mag has to make an actual correction. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9961	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darmann, not only in his request, but also in his speech, said that Mrs State Secretary Steßl had no duties to deal with and no responsibility. This is completely wrong, as is the case with many other things that have been said by Mr Darmann. Mrs Steßl is responsible for a wide range of tasks, namely information technology in the field of the Ministry of Finance, the matters of remuneration, service and pension law, the double taxation agreement, gambling matters and, of course, all other issues, such as requests to the Federal Government, draft laws and regulations, leavings, directives to be approved by the Minister, and the reply to parliamentary questions. It is of course involved in all these matters. A State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance is, of course, entrusted with all the issues of the budget, the budget, the budget, the budgetary control and the financial policy issues, such as those discussed here. Therefore, not only your statement, but also your request is wrong. First of all, I wanted to correct this, but secondly I would also ask you to say something that is true, if you are already talking about material discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10022	Next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10044	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I'm starting with something positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10065	Ladies and gentlemen, intermediate calls are absolutely part of Parliamentary instruments, but long-term calls, which are only to prevent the speaker from speaking, are certainly not desirable. I would ask Mr Vetter to give the opportunity to start his speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10088	Since the beginning of his term of office, the Minister of Finance has been working towards this solution. And so to speak, he did this in a fancy time. In my view, it is quite clear that there has been a decision and that this path will be followed consistently. You have to say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not the way I'd have chosen. In the last eight months, I have given numerous speeches here that I too would have preferred insolvency. Now this path has taken. I do not want to go back to the past, but I would like to look at this law that we have to decide in a few minutes. I consider this law to be linguistically inadequate, lacking in content and also missing in time-tactical terms. Why language? – Even the company Hypo Alpe-Adria, which appears in multiple versions of this law, does not correspond to that literal text which appears exactly in the company book. So even the company is not quite exactly named. Paragraph 3 of the first federal law ends with an addition, i.e. in the middle of the sentence. If § 2 para. 4 of the Financial Market Stability Act is amended insofar as the number 15 to 22 is changed, then that may correspond to the current law technique. The fact that billions are being changed from € 15 billion to € 22 billion is not covered by this law alone. There you have to look into the Financial Market Stability Act to see that it does not mean a section that is not called a sub-digit, but simply a difference of €7 billion. That is why, of course, one can easily come to the €12 billion, as one of my previous speakers said; if already €5 billion has been spent and the Minister of Finance now has a pouvoir increased by €7 billion, one logically comes to €12 billion. A little bit of a Sudoku, however, is already what you need to do in this law to get there. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the explanations there is a passage, a sentence that is double printed, and once the year is missing. – So much for the linguistic error. If we're already in the language: When Carinthia's liability is spoken of, it was actually a flaw of liability. If there is talk of the participation of the creditors, then this is in reality a hundred percent expropriation of the creditors. And when we talk about the Carinthian Future Fund, it's really the name of what many here have referred to as glamour, crime or what I know what. On the content of the failure: In terms of content, there really is a lot to say about what I am unfortunately missing time for. As regards the requirements for the management – I do not know why these are extra inside, because the Stock Act applies anyway – is, for example, in a section, that there must be no conflict of interest to be feared. ‘Interesting conflicts ( ) must be avoided. If a conflict of interest is inevitable," the Supervisory Board decides. Of course, there are also conflicts of interest in reality. That's about like you wanted to say, In a coffee house the coffee has to be hot, for it is to be taken care of in the kitchen, and when it is served, it must also be hot; if it is not hot, it is to be avoided, and when it is cold, the upper waiter decides. – There is about such a provision in this law. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] It is also very interesting that an application for the opening of insolvency proceedings can only be made by the FMA; no one else can do so. That the self- Not applicable, it is also clear, of course there are no fees, and the Company Reorganisation Act is not applicable either. The most important thing is the loss of liability, which has already been said a lot today and which will certainly come to the Constitutional Court. However, the message of the absence of liability is quite clear: If the word of the country of Carinthia does not apply, why should the word of another federal state apply? As the head of state of another federal state, I would have resisted it. What will financial markets say? – They will say: Mr. Landeshauptmann Niessl, your liability promises are not worth nothing, look at the law of 8. July 2014 on! Mr. Pühringer, your liability is worth nothing, look at this law! Mr. Häupl, your liability is not worth it, look at this law! Mr Pröll, look at this law, your liability is not worth it! – This is how financial markets react to such a law. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is why I miss the time-tactically because the 500 million euros of the country of Carinthia are not in here. If first the liability is lost and then one negotiates, then that is the completely wrong way. If you say they're not supposed to go bankrupt, you can say that, but there you have to negotiate with them before, not let go of the liability and then talk to them. If you had to show yourself the long nose there, it wouldn't surprise me, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sum up three points, first: The State has completely different rules. Secondly, No one is more greedy than the state, more insolent than the state, if you look at the loss of liability in the bonds. And: This law is the end of the credibility of this state; it is the beginning of the end of the Faymann government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10180	Mr Fuchs has been mentioned as the last speaker in this debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10201	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Members of the Federal Government! High house! Through this hypo-special law, Austria has the disadvantages of insolvency, but not the benefits of insolvency. The expropriation of certain subordinate creditors saves us in the first place, although € 890 or € 900 million, but due to credit ratings of at least € 1.5 billion each year, we do not want to mention the loss of reputation of the Republic of Austria. However, this federal law does not ask the beneficiaries of the emergency nationalization without need for cash, but rather a large number of taxpayers who have signed life insurance policies in whose coverstock these are supposed to be “mortal-secure” bonds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what does the Minister of Finance say about this? – I quote the Minister for Finance: “A federal country with two billion budgets and 20 billion euros – that is, 25 billion euros – assumes liability; well, I would have had doubts as to whether this is really a good, serious investment.” – This is an increase of taxpayers, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Neither the National Bank, nor the FMA and not at all Their department had concerns about the disproportionate relationship between national and national liabilities. And the small taxpayer, who provides for his pension with a life insurance, you, Mr Finanzminister, now accuse him of this misunderstanding. Should have noticed?- Oh, my God! The whole bank supervision has been asleep, and it has been very plausible, and the small taxpayer makes you, Mr Finanzminister, this last-class accusation. The Republic of Austria is currently liable for a total of about €400 billion under the federal debt and outsourced liabilities, and this amounts to some €72 billion in budget revenue. Do you have to be concerned now, Minister of Finance, if the Republic of Austria is to acquire certain bonds? Or become They answer the small taxpayers who, by drawing these government bonds, provide for their pension in a few years: With a state that has €72 billion in revenue and is liable for €400 billion, I would have no doubt that buying a bond from the Republic of Austria is a good and serious investment! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not only the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and well-known constitutional lawyers have concerns about this law, but also your predecessor in the BMF, which I have the right to quote here: I personally would have preferred insolvency, explains Dr. Fekter in a discussion round. Even in this case, Carinthia would have been in the drawing, but one should have had the money from the federal side, which one still has to shove into the hypo, just to Carinthia and not to the Balkans. - Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, I agree with Mrs Fekter's opinion: A hypo insolvency would have been the better solution. We would not only have the disadvantages of insolvency, but also its benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10280	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10302	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the visitor gallery! High house! It is, of course, an embittered discussion that has been taking place here for months. Perhaps I can make a small contribution with a technical change. I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10333	I would ask you to read the text specifically, especially in section 3 para. 2!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10348	‘In § 3 para. 2 the word sequence ‘longest one year after the date’ is replaced by the word sequence ‘longest two years after the date’. In Art. 2 () Z 4.’ That is what the Bureau agrees with, and that is what we have done. Let's read it carefully: I do not think that Mr Zakostelsky is right that the professors should have been on vacation for eleven years now. [[Abg. Stroll: She didn't ask anyone!]] They return after eleven years of vacation and note: A whore! There have been years of EU-lawless national arrests in the country, and no one has come to mind. Even Dr. Hable, who, as a lawyer, is hopefully always trying to advise his clients properly, has not said to any of his clients: Hey! There is a security, that says “land liability ” on it, which is not valid at all! Perhaps the problem is also when they came back from vacation – you said this, Mr Hable – that the Commission's letter was supposed to be formless. – He was not formless. He was a very formal letter in a so-called state aid procedure carried out by the EU Commission. There is also a number of businesses, namely C(2003)1329fin. Wait! Maybe something happened. You ordered an opinion. Maybe you had a copy of anything else somewhere, that could be. But it's interesting that there's something in there literally, Dr. Hable, which is the opposite of what you've told us here. In that case, there is the fact that the liabilities, the liabilities, are the same as in the second place. In the event of default by the public guarantee firm, until the end of its term, i.e. after 2017, expired. And then comes a crucial sentence: ==References====External links== ==References== This is the time limit for default liability for newly entered liabilities. – But now it is impossible, the Commission: She is now writing in it “new” and it has just been explained to us that Mr. Professors have found that there are no new liabilities. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Maybe a spelling mistake in 2003, do you think? And you think we can build on the solutions we're running? You didn't understand several things. Even if it had been dubious to grant aid, we would have an official liability for it; for these papers were issued, were signed with the default liability, were also controlled by the supervision, were traded and awarded. What do you imagine? That an investor who buys one says: This is illegal in Europe, I have no liability at all! – Of course, taxpayers pay for it. What you demand all the time means: Carinthia is supposed to be in bankruptcy! This is achieved by the insolvency of the hypo; then you can see that the Republic is not working, and then you can accuse the government of having acted badly. [[Call the NEOS: Shit!]] That's transparent. There is no solution that Carinthia can leave outside insolvency. [[Abg. Stroll: Then we investigate it!]] That is why the Federal Minister makes the right thing, namely a proposal on how to acquire a creditor's share in order to avoid insolvency. [[Abg. Kickl: Investigation Committee!]] I think the law is courageous, and we will also have to clarify – because it is a new legal country – whether it will keep everything. But it is really the effort to involve other creditors. We must appreciate this, and this has been done by Mr Kogler in his material contribution, for which I thank him. And I think we should try this way. There's no other way. Anyone who claims that there was an uncontrolled insolvency has never had anything to do with insolvency. But it can't be controlled at all, because there's no mass administrator. There is an illusion, the last illusion that Mr Rossmann has tried to spread here. [[Abg. Rädler: Professor!]] – He is Professor, Mr. Bruno Rossmann? Mr Mag. Rossmann, I didn't know. It's a shame I wasn't invited to award the title. But come back to the thing itself: The last illusion that Mr Rossmann has tried to spread here was that one could lead a bank with business supervision for a year, and nothing would happen. This attempt has already been made several times. Do you know what the first day of business is called? That's the so-called Bank Run. But these are not only the people who come and fix all the cash from the savings book; but all that happens around it is made due. At that time, the Bank is no longer eligible for payment, and the supervision of business is required to report insolvency in the event of inability to pay. So there's no year, that's another illusion. I think it's a good thing that we're taking a measure today that's making a decommissioning unit. Werner Kogler was right during the many years: We should have brought her in. My claim would now be: Let's try to make the decomposition unit. I think that's a good solution. I also believe that the Minister of Finance is right, it is courageous to try a Bail-in too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10454	The amendment tabled by Mr Matznetter is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10517	No one is reporting on this. The rapporteur does not agree with the final word. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 178 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues. In addition, there is a desire to vote in favour of the third reading of this draft law. I am therefore going to vote on the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning Art. 1 and 2. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. As has been said, the vote has been called for. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. The vote on the request for a secret vote, which was also supported by 20 Members, is not sufficient. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their third-reading approval to the draft law, “Yes” voting paper, those who want to vote against to throw “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10615	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10655	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 172; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 96, ‘No’ votes: 76. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tamandl, daughters; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Fuchs; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, oats, hagen, haider, houser, hoebart, moucher; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lightenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pok, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Treasure, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, Rejector, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter, Worm Peter; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10837	The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on insolvency law for the federal states. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the saving of the Secretary of State Mag. Sonja Stüßlwüsten of a State Secretariat for Administrative Reform in the Federal Chancellery. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for signs. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:35:42]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (162, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the E-Money Act 2010, the Financial Conglomerate Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authorities, law, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Securities Supervision Act 2007, the Payment Services Act and the Central Counterparty Voluntary Act (189 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (176, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Pension Funds Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act and the Real Estate Investment Fund Act (190 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10919	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Fuchs was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10946	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! If you analyze the novelle to AIFMG, you can conclude that it is not about the protection of investors, but about the protection of banks from unloving competition. Private investors are effectively excluded from the investment opportunities provided for in the AIFMG by this Novelle, as in particular the definition of qualified private customer in § 2 para. 1 Z 42 AIFMG, which I may quote here according to the meaning: Qualified private customer within the meaning of this Act is an investor who confirms in a contract that, among other things, he has untaxed bank assets and financial instruments worth more than €500 000; in which the sales company has assessed its expertise, experience and knowledge; which undertakes to invest at least €100 000 in an AIF; which proves that this investment does not exceed 20 percent of its assets made up of financial instruments. This mistaken definition of qualified private customer is only captivated by your definition of luxury board! The financial crisis has shown us that the widespread spread of investments can prevent massive losses of investors. Especially in the case of an investment in a roof fund, the widespread scatter reduces the investor's risk considerably. The fund must invest in at least ten target funds, each of which in turn invests in about ten or more target companies. And now the nonsense of these novels is coming: In order to invest in a wide-ranging roof fund that minimises investor risk, one has to prove that one has speculated with high-risk shares for years. Normally it's exactly the other way round: An inexperienced investor is more recommended to invest in a wide range of funds and not in risky individual titles. – This novel is an increase and demise of the private investors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore call for the removal of the term ‘qualified private customer’ and also for the removal of the minimum investment amount of € 100 000. This amendment also contradicts the government programme, namely page 15, which I may briefly quote: “The creation of conditions in the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act (AIFMG) with regard to the private investor distribution of shares in finance companies ( )” – This is the case, Mr. Finanzminister. The Germans have shown us with the Capital Investment Code how to implement the AIFM Directive meaningfully. Let us take an example of the German regulation! This novel to AIFMG degenerates our small investors and serves exclusively to protect the banks from unloving competition. That is why we will refuse our approval of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11000	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11022	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We are well known to distinguish two topics in the current treatment: the BWG-Novelle and the novelle of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act. The BWG-Novelle is the implementation of an EU regulation. Such a regulation is binding as always and offers only very few and very small spaces at national level. In the parliamentary process, both our Federal Government and Parliament have succeeded in using these scopes and thereby strengthening the Austrian market vis-à-vis the other Member States. To the draft law: The BWG-Novelle implements the adjustments required by the so-called uniform supervisory mechanism. You know, the single supervisory mechanism is the first pillar of the banking union. It is about the transition of supervisory competence for seven Austrian banks. This transition will take place in November 2014. Another central point of the BWG-Novelle is the re-regulation of the bank audit. In the parliamentary process, I was able to prevent a number of red tapes from extending the test activity. This led to an unnecessary increase in the cost burden on the ministerial draft. This is quite a recognizable measure in the sense of strengthening Austria's financial and economic location. In addition, the current BWG-Novelle also takes into account the concerns of the industry regarding the new mandate-limitation regime for directors and Supervisory Board members of credit institutions. What do we mean by that? – On the one hand, the so-called group privilege of credit institutions will be extended to all groups of companies. This makes it possible – and this is the essential point – for entrepreneurs outside banks to continue to operate in bank supervisory councils. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I see this as an essential element in the desired link between the real economy and the financial sector. On the other hand, the Financial Committee has also significantly increased the threshold for reaching the mandate limits, i.e. the amount threshold, as from when this limit enters into force: Originally, all credit institutions should be recorded from a balance sheet total of € 1 billion. This amount has been changed to €5 billion in the Financial Committee. This clearly distinguished the principle of proportionality, which takes account of proportionality, namely between small and regional banks and large international banks. It also needs to be clearly differentiated here. This is also important for our Austrian economy, especially the medium-sized economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim of creating high-quality supervisory laws as well as clarity for the legal user has been achieved by this law. A system of regional banks in close cooperation with national authorities is a step in the right direction, because we are once again drawing the right conclusions from the economic crisis. I would like to make it clear to a quote that always slips through, that most of the Austrian banks are too drilling to fail, with a word “low in risk”. It is precisely these structures that need to be strengthened in the interests of the Austrian real economy and thus also of the people and especially the taxpayers in our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, few sentences on the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act. We know that with the directive, the European legislator pursues the objective of allowing previously unregulated and risky financial products to be managed only by regulated managers. Thus, it was up to the Federal Government to create a clear and coherent framework for the regulation and supervision of alternative investment fund managers in Austria. On the one hand, this has succeeded, and on the other hand – and this is quite true here – certain things have not been fully understood: If you place minimum investment in the order of at least €100 000, you can see that the limits are clearly too high in international comparison. I would like to conclude more or less and stress that the novelle to the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act is a step in the right direction, but certainly not the last step. I am entitled to make the following request at this point: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11120	Mr Magistrate. The amendment tabled by Zakostelsky is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11177	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11199	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! We are now discussing two government templates: on the one hand, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, and on the other hand the ECB Banking Supervision Act. I'll start with the first. I do not believe that something is created here with the type of qualified private customer that is not in the sense of investor protection. On the contrary! I think that the minimum investment amount created for this type of qualified private investor should be precisely ensured that it is professional investors. This is precisely what it is all about, because the meaning of the EU Directive – mentioned by my previous speaker – is that strict rules for hedge funds, private equity funds and the like should be created more. Therefore, I cannot see that there is a legislative innovation here that should serve the protection of banks and not the protection of investors. I can also welcome the second point that is being amended, namely a restriction on the use of external ratings for aggressive AIFMs. I also see this as positive, because this restriction leads to a wider risk assessment than was the case in the past. Therefore, I do not think that the amendment, which has now been tabled, knows that we can in principle accept this government proposal. Otherwise, it is in the ECB’s Supervisory Act. In principle, it is to be welcomed that the joint banking supervision with 4. November 2014 will begin to work. It has it was not easy to implement it. This is an important step towards stabilising the financial market sector in Europe, which, however, must also follow rapid steps towards the insolvency of credit institutions on the one hand and deposit protection on the other. But why we Greens cannot agree to this ECB Supervisory Act, this is due to the fact that the European Parliament, in connection with the common supervisory mechanism, was able to achieve a number of rights which were not even discussed in the Austrian draft. What rights has the European Parliament been able to enforce vis-à-vis the European Central Bank? – I would like to point out some of the most important. The ECB must provide the European Parliament with the most important information from the Supervisors' Protocols. The ECB has already announced that it will, in fact, publish its protocols in the future. That would be something for Austria too. However, the ECB also needs to answer oral and written questions to the EP; if this is confidential information, they will also be treated confidentially. But they are still being treated, answered and discussed. Thirdly, The ECB must regularly inform the European Parliament of its supervisory activity and report to it. If, in this revision of the ECB's Supervisory Act, the Banking Act had enforced the relevant provisions, no agreement would be possible from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11247	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11268	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! In other words, I do not always agree with the honourable Member. Rossmann, in this part, however, all the content was to be underlined. I am only sorry that the Green Group cannot go along with the implementation of this directive. I would also like to highlight his comments on the topic of qualified investors. We are constantly moving in the field that is being accused of: Why didn't you do anything for years? How can it be that individuals are then involved? . I would like to remind you of the previous item on the agenda, with the debate on the involvement of the subordinate believers. Now, on the one hand, affluent people who engage professionally in a special status are trying to gain access to what I think is right, but on the other hand, the border sets in such a way as to ensure that a professional situation is given. I think that this proposal is reasonable and I agree with it. The second part concerns the installation into European supervision. We have called for this Europe-wide supervision as a result of the crisis in this House for a very long time. We have institutions operating across Europe and supervision does not fit into reality. The current implementation of this in the domestic form is a long-standing wish. I also believe that those mechanisms of the European Parliament, as mentioned by my previous speaker, Mr Rossmann, are a very reasonable solution. To be honest, Minister of State, I have already experienced this dissatisfaction as a member of the opposition and subsequently! You always have to torment the Minister of Finance with a request that he has to answer with the note: That's an independent authority from me. . I believe that we should have the courage – we do so in committee, too, if we have the FMA leadership in interviews, in debates, including the Governor and the Vice Governor of the Central Bank – perhaps we should still have the courage in this GP to think about whether we can also make tightenings here, as far as this House is possible in the sense of a request. Questions can be sent to the Court of Auditors, to the President of the National Council and to all Ministers. Why can't you create a shape where that's possible? – In this sense, I am seeking support for this project, and I believe that we should continue to talk about it. Overall, I believe that this is a very good implementation, and I am sure that we have achieved very good improvements in the field of supervision over the last ten years. The hypo disaster - I say it as it is - was partly also a failure of supervision in the years before 2007. Thus, there was no trial in the Balkans, although it has already been seen at all corners and ends, which it does not match with the equity. I think today we have a supervisor in the double constellation with the OeNB that works well. I think that this, including in the division, will work well together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11314	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11335	Mr President. Dear government representatives! High house! Dear taxpayers! Unfortunately, those responsible in the government do not understand much of the budget, because reliably more is spent each year than taken. Unfortunately, the government officials also understand little of banks, which is seen at the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank, the municipal credit and the ÖVAG, although, I must say, the Minister of Finance is very keen to resolve what was done in the previous period. But in fact, the government's authorities have very little understanding of the money, as is now seen in this novel to the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This law applies to any “organism” that pursues a “defined strategy”. What is an organism in Austrian social law and what is a defined strategy? – These are terms that do not come from our company law. There really were some legal experts working on it. Even more strange than the text is the content of this novel. Although private individuals are allowed to invest in large-scale investment funds only if they buy by at least €100 000 and have four years of share experience. Surely everyone in the hall and also in front of the TV screens, who once went to a bank and had a simple consultative talk: The most risky form of investment for the layman are always individual shares, but the risk can be spread with a fund. In this novel, this is completely reversed. That doesn't make any sense at all. What we need instead of such peculiar laws that try to risk and na In fact, it is up to the banks to disapprove of their actual business model, which is to collect money and then lend loans. That is precisely what is prevented by complicated regulations à la Basel III, complicated, expensive and therefore the entrepreneurs are very, very difficult to do with money. For this reason we need crowdfunding, which allows us to collect money without a prospectus obligation from € 250 000. Entrepreneurs need money to invest in order to survive in order to create jobs, but with your ideas, with all respect, that will be nothing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] After reading through this law, I must say that the following concerns me in our democracy: You on the government bank and we, who are sitting here in the National Council, regularly pass laws, of which most of them have no idea at all. Here, something is awakened at a speed similar to that of the ESM, which no one sees through, which is not by the trade. Actually, the officials, influenced by various lobby groups, are governed by various stakeholders, and many of us – I say, the great majority – do not even understand the content. If there are more than five people here who can tell me what “managed futures” are at all, then I am willing to eat a broom. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] The SPÖ-near economic fidelity Havranek says in a large press interview: “It is a pity that citizens are eroded by such regulations. Go to the casino, you may not buy a roof fund.” With his criticism, Havranek is perfectly right. You often don't know what you're doing, as I said, you're thinking about the ESM. – This is the real shame in our democracy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another subject very briefly. That self-addiction should now be punishable is, in my opinion, very problematic, because that is a pure occasion legislation, a legislative “overkill”. You'll pay up to 30 percent per annum for every mistake. I mean, you should be rather glad when people admit a mistake, maybe you've calculated yourself, and now you're reporting it. Why do people have to be criminalized? – One should rather think about introducing a penalty for politicians who decide totally irresponsible laws that cost taxpayers billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11432	I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 2 and 3 for the implementation of a short debate. [[14:59:37]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11454	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mr Pilz, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 525/A by Mr Pilz, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the ÖIAG Law 2000, a period of until 8. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11490	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a shame that the Minister of Finance has now gradually left the room, because he is actually the main character of this story next to Sigi Wolf, but the colleagues of the People's Party will surely tell him what we have to discuss here; apart from that, he knows exactly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] Short to the history: In the Financial Committee, since the last plenary session, he has been assigned an initiative proposal aimed at amending a small passage in the ÖIAG Act. And this passage means nothing but the following: After under Karl-Heinz Grasser had been enforced that a caste of grass-friends controlled the ÖIAG via the Supervisory Board and determined who will be Supervisory Board in the future and the Republic has nothing to say at all – that is, the Republic of Karl-Heinz Grasser and his friends have been expropriated as to their rights – we have asked what we can do to prevent the worst, and have proposed a sentence: The Council of Ministers – so that it is not only the minister of a government party, because then the other would be opposed – should have the right to elect individual members of the ÖIAG Supervisory Council. I thought that now I had to convince ÖVP and SPÖ, and asked the Minister of Finance, asked leading SPÖ MPs, asked leading representatives of the ÖVP: Are you not also in favour of protecting the Republic of Austria and the public property of Telekom until OMV from Mr Sigi Wolf? Are you also of the opinion that it would be reasonable to prevent him as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG? I prepared myself well so I can convince everyone, but it wasn't necessary. Everyone told me: Of course we are against it, it has not lost anything at all at the head of the ÖIAG Supervisory Council! That's where we can put everyone, but we can't put one down: Sigi Wolf! – And they're all right, of course, because they know the facts. Who's Sigi Wolf? First of all, he is something like the personal confidant and manager of the Russian oligarch Deripaska, who himself is involved in important international and Russian criminal transactions and who have also determined against the prosecutors, among other things, also in the Federal Republic of Germany. Secondly, he is a V-man of Russian President Putin, and he makes no secret of it. Thirdly, as a member of the ÖIAG Supervisory Board of Meritors of the so-called Minerva Action, the Secret Plan – together with a few Supervisory Board members – he was able to set the course in such a way that Frank Stronach and his Magna Group received the Voest – and thus the most important industrial group in this Republic – at a mocking price, without any call for tenders, without any competition, through Parliament's suspicion and the suspicion of the Federal Government. This makes an ÖIAG Supervisory Board: He acts for others against property and violates his legal assignment as a Supervisory Board, only to plunder the ÖIAG in the service of a foreign, foreign private group – simply and simply to plunder! Who's Sigi Wolf? Short supplement: About “profile” the whole thing has flown up and was prevented at the last moment by intervention of the Chamber of Workers and other institutions. [[Abg. Auer: jumpin' in!]] The property of the Republic of Austria, for example, has been protected by the country of Upper Austria and the RLB – the country of Upper Austria has played an important political role there – from Sigi Wolf and from some others. [[Abg. No, the RLB!]] Further chapter: Eurofighter. In addition to Karl-Heinz Grasser, Sigi Wolf was the most important Eurofighter lobbyist. [[Calls and calls between Mr Auer and Mr Kogler.]] Skill You remember how both of us in the committee of inquiry told us how the Magna Flyer in Vienna stood to transport the then Minister of Finance to Munich with Sigi Wolf in the first row, so that they could be traded there? And do you know what happened then? – Mr Wolf had to admit before the Eurofighter Investigation Committee that he had personally intervened with Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein, Vice Chancellor Riess-Passer and, of course, with Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser! Eurofighter, Voest, Action Minerva, and, and, and. – Should I tell you what happened at Styrian Spirit? [[Call:Please]] Wolf, as a private shareholder, made it through his political contacts with Jörg Haider that at Styrian Spirit, the Hypo Alpe-Adria lost €3 million. Or at the Therme Bad Gleichenberg: There, as a private shareholder, he made it through his contacts with Jörg Haider and the FPÖ that the Hypo Alpe-Adria has lost €38 million. A person who has been systematically infringing public property, all of whom have been harmed and cut everywhere from ÖIAG to Hypo Alpe-Adria, will he become Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG?- Oh, my God! There was the opinion of the ÖVP: No!, the SPÖ was of the opinion: No!, of course, we were of the opinion: No, no, no, And I have believed that we are jointly in the National Council able to protect the Republic of Austria and its property from Sigi Wolf, from the V-Man Putins and the Russian oligarchs, certain investor groups and the Clique in order to protect Karl-Heinz Grasser. I believed it! I believed that we agreed with each other, we have a clear majority of parliamentarians: As Members of Parliament, we protect the property of the Republic. What happened? – At the last moment, the Minister of Finance has fallen by the wayside! And I want to know why he fell down. I do not think that this has something to do with the Putin visit; after all, it is not the Federal President. I believe that this has something to do with pressure from the industrial association, which, together with Wolf there, represents quite certain but certainly not Austrian interests. Now I ask the Minister of Finance – and so it is so important that we set a deadline and still bring about this change in the law –: Why should the Federal Government not have this right? Why should it not protect the property of the Republic of Austria? – I just don't understand! And I think we as Members should do so if the Minister of Finance is already unable to do so. Sooner or later, the same dispute about the OMV. Yes, do you think Sigi Wolf is without a Russian mission and without Russian interests at the head of the Supervisory Board of the ÖIAG? – This is the Gazprom story, and this is already happening in Abu Dhabi, which is already running at Petrom in Romania, and the course is already being set: through gag contracts, through new lines that make us even more dependent on Gazprom, through direct interventions, via Russian influence – pure in the ÖIAG and pure into the OMV. This is where the next strategic company in this Republic is in danger. If the Minister of Finance is not willing if the Minister of Finance is unable to protect the property of the Republic of Austria, we must do so as a Member of this House. The proposal we have tabled contains only this sentence: The Federal Government will have a small ownership right back, it will finally be allowed to represent the Republic's interests towards its own Supervisory Board. The old grass rule – we have collected the ÖIAG, and it now belongs to the Clique around Grasser! – will be put out of power for the first time. This small amendment of the ÖIAG Act is so important for the protection of the property of the Republic of Austria, that is why I am seeking not only to agree to you, but to see it as a joint commitment of the Members of this House, in the interest of the Republic not here any special interests, not to follow the interests of an automobile group, Russian investors or potential foreign allies, but to represent exclusively Austrian interests. I think it is a matter of course that we set this deadline together, decide on this request and give us this little opportunity to protect the property of the Republic from the wolf in the state fur, from Putin's V-Man Sigi Wolf. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11567	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. The speaking time is now 5 minutes per speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11589	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Pilz, is not always right, but sometimes he encourages reflection. However, I do not want to make it absolutely clear to people as you did, because of course this discussion today is also an opportunity to think about the activities of the ÖIAG. Several things that have happened, and various privatizations and sales that have gone over the stage – not only recently, but also for a long time ago – are not necessarily a glory for the ÖIAG. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall a few things: It was very bad at the time when Austria sold tobacco. That was a non-necessary sale. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Those who bought this factory have taken two years to re-establish this money. The balance sheet looks as follows: In 2001, full privatisation took place, 2011 closed the last work in Hainburg, we lost a thousand jobs. I have always made the following comparison: The ATW were sold like a house in which there is a filled safe, but it was only the house to pay. In 2007, the Court of Auditors – the time has passed so fast, but it remains unforgettable – had strong criticism and meant that the ATW had been sold far too cheap at that time. The tried sale of the Voest to Magna has already been addressed today. At the time, we had many discussions in our group and saw what was happening there. Mr. Wolf was by chance also a member of the Supervisory Board and Head of Magna Europa at the time – it was probably a coincidence. It is the question of how he would have decided if it had been decided, but here Mr Wolf has already put himself in the position where it could have been easy for him to have taken a very massive position for the Magna. Part-privatisation of Post AG: In the last few days we hear and see that there are obviously also brittles. The future will show us what actually happened. The last act, Telekom Austria, has really made us very affected, as the industrial leadership has been given. There are no fixed commitments for investment, at least not for investment here in Austria, there was and does not exist a job. guarantee, and there was complete transparency, mystery in the design of contracts: Who can look in at what time? The workers' representatives have tried and managed to do so, but only for a short time to carry out this task. The question is whether all the capital representatives have actually read this syndicate contract in all its details. The Supervisory Board meeting was really not superfluous to dilettantism. I've always formulated it this way: Each class meeting is better organised, as the chairman, who would have to bear responsibility for the fact that this decision is about the stage as the Supervisory Board wishes, should have been there at least at that time. On the topic of self-renewal of the Supervisory Board, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, the existing Rules of Procedure – and I say so quite openly – are absurd. At present, ownership interests cannot be perceived. No owner in this world, I would say, would allow it, for example, not to be able to determine the strategy itself – at least over a long period of time. I have been very interested in the statements of a very well-known Austrian, Dr. Claus Raidl, inventor of this mechanism, which is still ruling now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] He's showing great regret now. He says he has estimated this completely wrong, he even speaks of an insiderclique that pursues its own interests, and thinks that self-renewal is a kind of self-service. This is really a very massive criticism, a criticism that is to be taken seriously, and I therefore believe that the self-renewal of the Supervisory Board should be corrected. It is agreed in the government programme to change that. This is currently being negotiated, and we will be pressured to see a result soon. I believe that there is also the possibility of allowing the considerations of today's Greens' proposal to be incorporated into it, but I also say quite openly that it makes no sense to force a vote on this request today. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I believe that ÖIAG needs to become again industrial policy players, it is ultimately about our industrial location in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11665	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11686	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a deadline request that a change be made within one day. I have a lot to gain from Mr Pilz's debated request, it is not easy to give up property rights. At the time, however, the government was considering something, it was about politicization, political occupation, depoliticization of an essential economic institution, and it was then declared ready for depoliticization. This discussion is an ideological one, is a discussion about how to implement it practically. I would like to draw on the previous item on the agenda. Regarding the insolvency of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, it was said: Okay, it's okay, we want to have an insolvency where then a judge and no longer politicians can decide – theoretically about the bank, theoretically also about the country of Carinthia. So, in one case, we demand depoliticization, we want to re-politicize it – that is why I say: Within one day we will not be able to solve that. The issue is important, it is also in the government programme that it is to be resolved. I also believe that we can regain our rights here. should. I can also agree relatively well with the request in the line of speech, but I also believe that we have discussed a very similar issue in the last financial committee and have delayed it by a majority because negotiations are under way and the majority have said: We want to discuss this calmly and therefore delay it. This should be taken into account here and not submitted on the next day of the next request and submitted a deadline request at the next meeting. That is, I think, as Mr Wimmer said, it makes no sense to vote on this today, but I am pleased about the discussion on this and hope that we will come to an appropriate solution in autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11726	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11747	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard, therefore, that while the coalition parties agree on content, especially because it is only a half-rate anyway, namely the insertion of the few words that can be called up at the decision of the Federal Government, it is not possible now. We cannot do anything about this, we will of course agree to the deadline proposal. It is an unsatisfying and unsustainable situation if the Republic cannot exercise and exercise its rights of ownership. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, if you are still taking a few months for a proper application, I can also write the following to you in the main book: Please also consider the structure of the ÖIAG! The ÖIAG is currently responsible for the OMC, for the post office and for the Telekom, where, I believe, we have only 28 to 51 percent of the shares, and that was the case. Please think about the BIG, the ASFINAG and also about the ÖBB, how to integrate it into a beautiful industrial holding!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11774	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11796	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really strange that such a thing as a strategic debate on industrial policy, a strategic debate on the ownership of all Austrians in this House is only possible if the next scandal is at hand. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes! Scandal! Sigi Wolf!]] - Yes! This Federal Government does not make any sense in terms of industrial policy, industrial strategy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] There's a standstill. What we hear is some negotiation; what we hear is the fact that the overall consideration of the government negotiations was to re-establish 37 companies under the umbrella of an ÖIAG. What we see, what we read and what we really take note of with anger, is that the old bowl-grass party in the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG simply continues to do everything again, and that against the background of the fact that the former bowl-grasser-ÖIAG-construction with this self-renewed Supervisory Board has systematically expropriated the Republic in many areas – indeed! I have now made the effort to find together the various media contributions on the ÖIAG discussion. I have now found a contribution from the 2003 format. Who, do you think, cheers over this self-renewed Supervisory Board back then? The investors on the stock exchange! Who did the big business in privatization? – Those who bought, and not the Republic that sold! I can therefore agree with Mr Wimmer in many respects. Just, that would have to be the sting for you to change the current system. However, the problem lies in the fact that the ÖVP, which is more specifically worth the industrial association in the ÖVP, is an oligarch friend and servant, if I can formulate it in such a way as to reform a manager at the head of the administration of Austrian state property than the ÖIAG. [[Abg. Kogler: A Putinist!]] It is more worth your sitting there, so to speak, one – I want to put it very polemically now – agents of a neighbouring great power than at last to make Austrian strategic industrial policy. I mean, as an opposition, we Greens really care about state property. I'm just too ore-conservative if I take a full ownership position. You're with the increasers, you're with those who are prolonging a personal carousel that worked for the damage of the Republic. We cannot accept that. There is therefore this debate, which is why there is this deadline. A serious supervisory policy must finally be made once again. The whole world is really laughing at the fact that, in view of the billions we own, we as the Republic do not have any ownership representatives in our Supervisory Board. Every manager asks himself, every housewife is already wondering: Who represents the interests of the owner? What are the strategic ownership interests? I asked the Minister of Finance for more. The answer came yesterday. Minister! What is the strategic interest of your side or the strategic conception of Austrian industrial policy? I'd like to know, I'd like to know. He says: That's what's being negotiated. Yes, excuse me! If you own property, you must also have some concepts for what you use it for. And we debated this morning about the need for a site improvement. We need a set-up or a constellation in economic policy, so that certain enterprises in general can again perform leading functions, benefit other businesses and find employment for employees. This strategic concept is completely missing. And that's what we're asking for. And it is really a pity that a deadline proposal must be the start of an industrial strategy debate. We need them and we don't need to give this ownership function to the Russians or anything else. I mean, this has to be done, 'cause it's too much at stake. Think of the mail! Think of the OMV! These are still certain pearls on our so-called stock exchange. But, as I said, Throwing pearls in front of the sow is unfortunately the right expression in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11854	The next speech is by Mr Vetter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11886	Mr President. High house! What we are discussing here is really the question: State influence, yes or no at the level of the OEIAG. Do we want the state influence or don't we want it? That's the question here. The current solution had a history of deficits, arguments and misdevelopments in the nationalized industry in the previous millennium. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a time when politicians ruled in where mayors ruled, in which works councils had the whole society in their hands. And it finally ended at the beginning of this millennium. If there was something good, even if it was little, under the government of Black and Blue, then it was this self-renewal of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG. This has brought Austria a lot, ladies and gentlemen, a lot! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and ÖVP.]] And I have accompanied many of these privatizations myself as a critical shareholder, carrying out so many ostrichs with Mr Michaelis and Mr Wieltsch and others, including Mr Eder, and, and, and,. If Mr Eder is the 31st Director-General August 2005 as the most beautiful day in his life, on which the Republic has issued the last share at the voest group, then I can understand him so well, for it guarantees that politicians no longer rule into his society, that the politicians have nothing more to say. And that is exactly where there is a turning point today, that politics should be able to go back to the companies, to ÖIAG, to Telekom, to the post office and to the OMC. There is the greed of the state again infinity. Similar to the tax system, she wants to be able to access and talk with her. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And that is why this solution to self-renewal is a really good thing, ladies and gentlemen! Without these privatisations, the voest would not have survived the 2008/2009 crisis. They wouldn't have done anything on the stock exchange. And we can be so glad that this company has been so well privatized that it comes through the crisis today, and that a man like Eder today has the freedom to run this group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] It's really a luck! And there's a Mrs. Ederer in the OIAG Supervisory Board. Do you think that belongs to the Clique of the persons you described before? - No! The self-renewal of the Supervisory Board is also looking for a compensation, including in its own ranks. We do not need politicians who can speak with those who want to assert their own interests there, ladies and gentlemen. And this solution must be maintained. Yes, there's a standstill there, a lack of strategy. But who's to blame for that? – It is this federal government from black and red, which has no more privatization orders since 2007, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Here's the standstill. No privatisation order. Here, I found Exception: AUA! When the AUA was almost pleading, they had to shoot 500 million. And that's politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] They only wake up when there is a huge deficit when it comes to millions and millions to be postponed. Sell if the companies are good, and not if they are on the ground! And in this concept of standstill, Deutsche Telekom has now fallen because you both had to find a compromise that is, of course, lazy. Everyone had to give up a little bit, do a little bit. The best for these companies don't know the politicians, they don't know you about red, they don't know you from black, they don't know you. know people who have experience, as do Sigi Wolf. And this man hunting, this demonization of an individual has nothing to do with what you want here. They want the state influence. You just want to talk. And here you have to build a dam so that your parties, your party secretariats have nothing to say here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And that is why I support this possibility of self-renewal. Let us not forget that it has proved successful in the interests of these companies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11994	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12016	Ladies and gentlemen! It is my first day here today, and I would like to thank you for the warm welcome that many political groups have given me – a sign of respect. It's good, and I'm grateful for that. [[Call:Ah yes]] Yes, it is. Unfortunately, I have to say that no one is present at the government bank – Mr. Finanzminister has just come –. But I also have to say that a reason why I decided to be here today is that I believe it needs an entrepreneurial Austria. When it comes to the Greens' request, I must say yes, we support it. However, we see the selection between self-renewal and the influence of SPÖ and ÖVP like the choice between Pest and Cholera. They had the opportunity, and it was also in the government agreement to launch a new ÖIAG law. And that's what you had in the program before the summer break. I don't know what it's failed to do. It's not true that Mr Muhm has not got a seat on the Supervisory Board. Can it be? But if you are looking for a place and if the Federal Chancellor is looking for a place, I must say that there is one, for example at the Danube Island Festival. He can make sure that the socialist union does not then come by the fact that there are “haxen-spreizers”. That would be a task. Then we do not have to complain about the text of the Austrian Federal anthem if no daughters are attached to the sons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Yes, but the “haxen-spreizers” are also standing somewhere. We already know. Mr Mitterlehner, the Federal Minister, even spoke yesterday or yesterday of the fact that there is a situation in the government and that nothing goes on. This is symbolic of the fact that you did not launch this text or change of law before the summer break. And this standstill is symbolic of the fact that you're not doing anything at all and actually not getting anything on the way at all. It's about people and not about the law! And I think it should be about the law, and I give the Greens absolutely right. However, we have a restriction. And I think it's our job before we talk about people like Sigi Wolf or someone else to protect them. Sigi Wolf won't start in two years. What we need, these are transparent rules to redesign the ÖIAG. We need Fit-&-Proper tests in Parliament. We need a transparent selection procedure for the Supervisory Board, a parliamentary say in the selection of persons and a hearing in Parliament. Only then can you agree. I think that's our job, too, when it comes to state ownership. We are also experiencing the rejection of a hearing during the debate about Gio Hahn. He can't come either, can't come because you've already decided behind locked doors. So what we want is: With a lively, strong parliamentarism and entrepreneurial Austria and away with this filtation! Then there is no need for what Mr Wimmer meant by force. He wanted to force the mumm and not a new ÖIAG law. And that's what it's all about. Unfortunately, our Modeicon Rasinger is not here today. But you've had a nice objection, that's what you're wearing now, but you can go to school with him. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12057	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request made by Dr Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 525/A by Mr Pilz, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the ÖIAG Law 2000, a period of time until 8. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[15:34:05]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12094	I will resume the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12118	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the novel of the Banking Act, where, due to the global financial crisis, two comprehensive rules, which were summarized under the name of Basel III, are to be implemented. The aim of the measures is to ensure more stable financial markets and restore confidence in markets through stricter capital requirements and the introduction of liquidity indicators. CRD IV and CRR are the directives. Interesting in this context is a remarkable interview that the former IMF chief Horst Köhler, later President of the Federal Republic of Germany, gave to the “manager magazine” in November 2008. I have already spoken today about the causes of the Carinthia. And this Horst Köhler then, in November 2008, said: “We had to deal with absurdly high profits. In the 1990s, the savings banks in Germany were held by the Brussels Commission that a return of less than 15 percent was an indication of lack of competition." Ladies and gentlemen, one has to imagine that banks are kept to produce less than 15 per cent return, and that is a lack of competition! And with that, the foundation stone was laid in all these areas, so to speak, because the greed, the pressure too much, was much higher. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The greed!]] And if these regulations are now being implemented and will ultimately also contribute to improving confidence in the markets, then one should also say that there are currently in Upper Austria or, more specifically, in Austria, in the so-called system-related banks from a certain size of European supervision, in Austria by the FMA. Through intensive tests, you can see what's going on. It is exciting to find in such an institute 25 testers who are in the house for four, five months and, of course, a huge impairment of the operation's course, and then the stress test is at the door. That's how it's done. However, this will create additional costs of around €5 million for such a bank, and at the same time one should do the business. It'll be a little difficult. I'm just asking for one: for the right balance. On the one hand, the necessary consistent, objective examination should be carried out, but on the other hand it should also be considered whether some of the things that the FMA interprets significantly more strongly than those of the EBA, the European Banking Authority, could be reviewed and evaluated by the Austrian FMA. For only by checking alone will no bank be able to be saved in the future, but only through timely measures. And if this can be improved by this novel, I should be right.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12155	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12183	Thank you for the relevant note. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Finanzminister! The EU Directive on the AIFM Act, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, was very strict last year by Austria in its implementation. The government has recognized this, has decided to change something here, and, accordingly, this novelle is a real step in the right direction. The colleague Zakostelsky also formulated a little melancholy. I think it was not largely enough for him, and I can predict that it is not enough for us either, because even after this innovation, the alternative investment funds will continue to be too highly regulated, which will damage the capital market in Austria and will continue to lead to a demise of capital. The money is missing in the Austrian market, and above all, is depriving SMEs of financing opportunities at a time when it is very difficult to get loans from banks according to the size of these companies. The innovation will create a so-called qualified private investor. Mr Fuchs and Mr Rebauer have also explained how curious this construction is and how absurd it looks in detail. That's why I'm saving myself another reading of this passage. However, it should be noted that this qualified private investor is nevertheless positive that foundations and private investors can in themselves be reached through these alternative investment funds. But what we wanted is a full release for private investors. We are particularly concerned about the premeditation that is taking place here. People who can otherwise invest in stock derivatives, and that in an undetermined amount, are suddenly pushed into a scale, where they have to pay at least €100 000 in these alternative investment funds. Registered, i.e. small alternative investment funds continue to have no opportunity to operate outside their home market. This is reserved for the concessionists. In this context, we would argue to introduce something like a “concession light” because the additional burden in corporate governance for this concession is about €300 000, and this is simply not sustainable in the typical size of a private equity fund in Austria with a volume of approximately €50 million. Summary: The novelle is certainly an improvement to the first draft, but local funds still cannot address international institutional investors. This gives them, as it were, a competitive disadvantage, and this, in conjunction with the other very strict implementations, weakens the capital market and thus the location and the companies.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12235	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12256	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! What we are discussing here in the National Council today is nothing less than restoring financial stability in the euro area, i.e. a secure and solid financial sector in Europe, and I can say to the SPÖ: safe and solid, especially for savers and taxpayers. A quick look: When the financial crisis led to a debt crisis in the euro area in 2010/2011, it quickly became clear that political action must be taken to break the vicious circle between marod, saving banks and public government budgets. Therefore, the reflections on the European Banking Union, therefore, consider reorganising banking supervision. As a Member of Parliament, I say it quite clearly: I would like to exclude that, in future, taxpayers will be asked to cash again if banks make mistakes when banks commit capital mistakes. The Banking Supervisory Act is a clear message to the bank directors. It can't be that politics is extortionable. It can't be that policy is extortionable by bank directors who say: We're too big to be dropped. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Approaching the new banking supervision rules at European and national level also means an end to the “too big to fail” in English and thus a very clear trend in European banking policy, and that is not to be estimated to be high enough. The rescue packages for banks must be history, and they must remain history. We need this money for a tax reform. We need this money for our health care, our schools. We need this money for art and culture, for science and research. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The message of the Banking Union and the law on banking supervision, which we decide here today, is clear: Banks, focus on your essential and actual tasks! This is first of all to make the money of the savers secure and good, and second, to provide loans for the real economy, credit for our small, medium-sized and also larger - as always - Austrian companies and companies. The effect is obvious and clear: economic recovery and job creation. By means of the Austrian law, we define which banks are supervised by the European Central Bank, namely the system relevant, and which are smaller by the Austrian National Bank and our financial market supervision. Our objective is to ensure effective Austrian and European financial market surveillance in the interests of savers and taxpayers, so that banks and funds no longer pay the money of the savers, so that taxpayers are no longer used for non-controllable bank savings shields, so that money is available for businesses that want to grow, and that there is work and thus the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12322	Next item is the report by Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12344	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators also in front of the televisions and here in the Hohe Haus! Sub-Government present! [[Abg. Wheeler: A jokeball!]] ==References== July 2013, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act was already the subject of this issue, and a year ago, on the initiative of Kai Jan Krainerund, colleagues silently, Parliament took a unanimous decision to question the criteria for crowdfunding once again. You know what I'm talking about: 750 000 euros were the subject at the time as far as the prospectus requirement is concerned. Actually, only a very, very weak compromise of €250 000 has come out. You need a prospectus about this sum. You know the subject: They have an innovative idea and want to collect smaller amounts of money among many people, and then the creation of the prospectus costs disproportionately much. To formulate it in ÖVP language: You want to sell a cow around €800 and by law you would have to order a photographer for €500, otherwise you may not sell the cow. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We want to simplify the bureaucracy a little bit and reduce the cost. That is why I have today prepared a motion for a resolution which includes some key points to push forward crowdfunding in this country. He'll be available to you in writing. Crowdfunding should be as unbureaucratic as possible, it should be administratively simple, and it should simply correspond to the timing, because we are no longer in 1970, but in quite different situations. Today, you can easily make an entrepreneurial idea public via the Internet. There are appropriate platforms for this – you know that: Kickstarter or respectful.net in Austria – but there are no legal conditions. We Greens want to make some progress, especially in the field of energy transition, where local, municipal initiatives, including among neighbours, are favoured. It should be simple and not be strangled with, for example, a prospectus obligation. I don't want to quote Heini Staudinger now; You know the examples. From our point of view, nothing just happened last year. The motion for a resolution, which goes in the direction and which is also presented to you in writing, now simply calls for real action, because I fear that nothing else will happen here. I would ask you to support this initiative. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12390	The motion for a resolution mentioned by Mr Köchl and presented in the main points is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12479	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12500	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2008 financial crisis has hit Europe hard. I have been in many different industries during this time and have also spoken with many colleagues, including the management. Austria has come through the crisis better than all other countries in Europe, thanks to the good economic policy of the Austrian Federal Government, which has not taken unemployment into account, but has seen and sees the fight against unemployment as the top objective of its work. The short-term work arrangements negotiated with the social partners with the financial support of the Federal Government in order to avoid redundancies, so that there is no spiral down, as well as the training guarantee for young people in order to give them a chance of career growth, are only two measures to give examples here. The EU directive, which we want to implement today through this decision, is another important step in drawing lessons from the financial crisis. In the autumn of this year, all EU countries will then have an equal level of supervision of banks, equal capital will be required by banks and equal deposit guarantee will apply across the EU. The lessons from the crisis: clear and equal rules in the financial market in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12542	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law which amends the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the E-Money Act 2010 and other laws, including title and entry into 189 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who want to agree to this draft law at third reading too, to a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Pension Funds Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act and the Real Estate Investment Fund Act in 190 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. I am therefore going to vote on the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the draft law. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new point 52a in Article 4. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Lichtenecker, colleagues on crowdfunding legislation as an attractive legal framework. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:53:25]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (177 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Financial Criminal Law (Finanzkunftgesetznovelle 2014 – FinStrG-Novelle 2014) (191 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (163, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Electricity Tax Act, and the Question No 342/A by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in a federal law amending the Electricity Tax Act (192 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (179, e.g._Other Organiser Convention on mutual assistance in tax matters, as amended by the Convention on mutual assistance in tax matters. Protocols entered into force on June 19, 2011 (193, e.g.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (143, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Vogtei Guernsey on the exchange of information in tax matters (194 d.a.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (135 d.a._Other Organiser Protocol prohibiting illicit trade in tobacco products (195, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12699	We now come to points 4 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12726	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! In principle, the tightening provided for by the 2014 Financial Criminal Law is to be welcomed, which is why we will also give our consent to this law. As far as the rule of law is concerned, and I have already explained this in the Committee, it is true that all these tightenings in the financial law are not differentiated according to the degree of indebtedness. It does not therefore matter in the present amendments whether a financial offence has been committed intentionally or negligently. However, in the case of negligent conduct, the taxpayer is not aware that he has made a mistake. Nevertheless, the person who negligently commits a financial offence is equated with a culprit. In this context, it should be borne in mind that the cause of negligent offences lies not least in the complexity of tax law. In view of the complexity of tax law, there is always a risk of unconscious, though negligent, breach of applicable law. However, the complexity of tax law is not the responsibility of the entrepreneur, but of the Federal Government. Therefore, for legal reasons, I call for the debt to be taken into account in the planned tightening, and we will also make a corresponding amendment. It is currently common practice, for reasons of caution, that for any fault that is discovered, a self-advertisement takes place without in detail checking whether a conduct actually relevant to criminal law has occurred. It is expected that this current procedure will be questioned in the future, which will result in fewer self-admissions and thus also less revenue. I should like to give you an example of why debt-related differentiation is necessary. If a repayment of turnover tax is made in the course of the year in which the VAT declaration is drawn up, a self-advertisement will normally be refunded for reasons of caution. If you discover a further VAT error later, you are currently refunding a second self-advertisement. However, this second self-advertisement would no longer have a Penalty-Free effect after the texting provided for in the Government template. In the future, the entrepreneur will therefore consider whether he also discloses this second error in a self-advertising or rather hopes that this second error will not be discovered. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I should like to say that we also welcome the multilateral assistance agreement and the Guernsey information exchange agreement on tax matters and also agree to these agreements. In this context, however, I would like to quote the report of the Court of Auditors of June 2013, page 20, on group taxation: "In the light of the information provided by the financial offices and the large-scale audit, since the introduction of the group tax, there has been no single administrative aid procedure in connection with the application and/or the application of the directive. Re-taxation of losses incurred by foreign group members (...).’ I would like to ask myself why we decide on international agreements here if they are not implemented by the Minister for Finance. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Vice-Kanzler, international tax agreements are suitable means of combating international tax fraud. However, these agreements must not remain dead, but must also be actively applied. As a financial institution, Ministers have a responsibility for combating fraud not just on paper.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12820	The amendment is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12910	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12931	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal with the 2014 Financial Criminal Law. I was able to join the opinion of Dr. Fuchs in the Committee, for example, as regards the rage of self-admissions, in relation to those self-admissions that are reimbursed if the annual declaration is to be drawn up and that there will be an additional payment. We know that the financial authorities are particularly keen on VAT. I would like to say in principle that it is important to me that we fight tax fraud, that we take a lot of measures to combat tax fraud, and that of course it is also necessary that the taxes that someone has to pay are properly calculated and explained by proper accounting. However, I have to say that in the Financial Committee I was told by one employee of the BMF that the self-advertisements you spoke of, of which there are overwhelmingly many in connection with a supplementary payment at an annual declaration, actually would not have to be made at all. – I think we should look more closely at whether it is sufficient to make a tax declaration and immediately make the tax payment in order to counter the fact that, as they have mentioned, no further self-admission can be paid before an operating audit. I think you should look at that in a small round, because that too is an important part for me. Unfortunately, in Austria, we have the problem that there are some establishments that are not then re-examined, and even in the fight against fraud, the financial authorities will not be subject to all tax harms. For example, we have not found any solutions to VAT fraud, and we have not yet found any solutions in relation to truly large, partially international tax fraud, how to counteract it or how to explain it. That is why I think it is always good to do something about tax fraud. I used to think that with the self-advertisement you already have to record everything and put it on the table in concrete terms, what you discovered before you undergo an operational test. You'll still have to look at that with the supplements. However, what I do not want in connection with today's change is that anyone who makes an ad before an operating audit is, in principle, criminalised. The Committee has mentioned this by some Members, and Mr Rossmann, I think, has also mentioned it. In very many cases, it is noticed that the documentation for an operating audit is very simple, and I do not want, as I said, to be criminalised immediately, that the impression is raised as if someone had committed tax fraud or had done something intentional. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] This does not mean, however, that you do not have to become master of tax fraud! However, I would like to clarify something because this could not be said in the Committee because the figures are not available there: There have been 12 797 criminal proceedings in 2013, 6 588 of which have affected the tax and 10 515 proceedings have been dealt with by the financial authorities as a whole. – I believe that this is a very small part and one can assume that companies handle their tax concerns in principle. In particular, I am very important: For example, in the so-called GPLA tests, i.e. in the joint audits of pay-related taxes, it is often added that companies have a supplementary payment – in my opinion, it is particularly strict, which the entrepreneurs consider to be quite unpleasant – that this may also have a disadvantage for employees. I don't want that! For example, if a company organises corporate celebrations for its employees or sets out other motivating measures, such audits may not result in any over-payments. I do not want, as I have said, – and I do not think that is our job – that auditors in companies carry out operational audits, especially in smaller companies, where there is often no accountant who can devote himself to the auditor. To this end, it is always said that you don't need the tax advisors: I think every entrepreneur who has once had an audit knows that it is a good investment to employ a tax advisor, because an audit can then be carried out in an orderly manner. In this sense, I will and will of course agree with this novelle. I believe, however, that, in principle, with regard to these superfluous self-addictions, as I said earlier, we must be really clear and perhaps make a statement that they are not necessary, because they are also a second self-advertisement may occur when an operational test is carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13003	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13025	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, you can never do enough against tax fraud and hence for tax justice! This also applies to the criminal law renewal here on the one hand as well as the agreements on the other. The intensification of criminal law is in principle an old green demand, which the government has now taken up. However, we believe it is insufficient, for what does it bring? – The future regulation brings only after punishment-free self-admissions in the course of operational audits – in the course of operational audits! – Now surcharges on the tax debt. So far, interest on default has had to be paid. If one compares this scheme with that in our neighbouring country, the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, one can easily see that in principle this scheme is a very mild one, because in the German tax code it says that a penalty exemption in the case of self-admissions only takes place if the following conditions are met: if the tax debt is less than € 50 000, in the case that the audit has not yet been announced, and in the case that the financial penalty proceedings have not yet been opened – this also applies to Austria – in the case that the auditors have not yet appeared on the ground and before the discovery of the act. Of all these facts in Austria, only one is mentioned by me, but not the other. Furthermore, a debate is also taking place in Germany on the aggravation of fines. That is to say, we want to take one step again, but we are only taking a very, very hesitant first step here. By the way: The fact-finding “before the discovery of the deed” is interpreted very sluggishly in Germany, but also in Austria. That was probably the example of the CD from Liechtenstein! How was that with the CD from Liechtenstein? – In this case, the punishment-free self-admissions were given months of time! Not that one has just led the tax sinners to self-advertising! It was scandalous how that was handled at the time! I therefore believe that while the revision of the Financial Penal Code here is a step in the right direction, it is completely inadequate in terms of greater fiscal justice. This also applies, of course, to the agreement with Vogtei Guernsey with regard to the exchange of information. This Vogtei Guernsey is a tax haven – as we all know – in the direct possession of the Queens, and it is what one might call among the tax havens “best of evil”. My previous speaker has already mentioned that this is actually a dead agreement, because the aid has never been used in recent years, for example in the taxation of groups. It is a pity that we in this House are going to be dealing with such agreements at all. It's a shame around the time! If such agreements are actually made, ask seriously and beyond all taxes and not just individual taxes, while other taxes, such as property tax, are not subject to tax. ................................................................................................................................ This also applies to the multilateral convention, which is also the subject of this debate: This also excludes capital income, inheritance tax, sales profits and other forms of property tax. I do not understand this in terms of tax justice, and I have been particularly impressed in recent days that the Minister of Finance, in connection with the concentration of assets in Austria, has meant “trend”: “As Minister of Finance, I am happy to handle it on the basis of solid data. I doubt estimates of pi mal thumbs based on surveys. My feeling is that the wealth is wider. There is no solid data on how the assets are distributed in Austria.” Mr Finanzminister, if you want to do something for tax justice and if you want to know how the wealth is distributed in Austria, you will provide additional, well-founded data bases! In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13107	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13202	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13224	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is perfectly clear: We do not want to criminalise anyone, but we also want honest taxpayers not to be planted. One of the essential objectives of this strengthening of the Financial Criminal Law is, of course, to achieve more tax-honority. It is mentioned in the law of intent and gross negligence. It's not about punishing someone who has a lesser degree of accident, as it's so beautiful. For one, the law is too strict and superfluous, and for the Greens it is too little clear. – I don’t think we need to hide in international comparison. We have a staggered surcharge for fines for tax evasion. In Germany too – Mr Rossmann has already mentioned it – a change is being discussed. In this case, there is the proposal to have a surcharge of €25 000 to €100 000, 10 percent, between €100 000 and €1 million 15 percent and even 20 percent from €1 million. We are from € 250 000 at 30 percent. So it's not that bad! This law will ultimately bring about € 260 million of additional revenue in the coming years to 2018. I mean, that's right and cheap because we owe it to the honest taxpayer. However, this does not dispel us from having to eliminate the wrong situation in the tax system, and thus we must not wait until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, but we must act quickly, for those who help quickly will help twice in this case, and a rapid relief is necessary. Whoever helps quickly helps the people who suffer from the high tax burden, and with that one also helps the economy, because if people have more on the stock exchange, they can spend more. A higher purchasing power, in turn, stimulates domestic demand, and this is very necessary because it suffers. I also do not understand why, for example, the Economic and Social Committee is opposed to this tax reduction, because this is almost an economic programme: If people have more purchasing power, they buy more, and the economy is profiting from it. So: Down with income tax and additional labour costs, and quickly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13261	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13284	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! After my previous speakers have dealt mainly with Agenda item 4, I will now deal with Agenda items 5 to 8. Point 8: The protocol prohibiting illicit trade in tobacco products is aimed at preventing global illicit trade in tobacco products. An EU-wide total of €10 billion, calculated by OLAF's Anti-Fraud Office, speaks for itself. We shall certainly vote in favour of this point. Agenda item 6, Convention on mutual assistance in tax matters: This is about accession to a multilateral agreement on mutual assistance in tax matters – this is also what we agree with. On the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Vogtei Guernsey on the exchange of information in tax matters: Guernsey is known as a tax haven. We will agree to this agreement, although I would like to point out, as with all these agreements in tax matters, that this article, which was put to our attention by the OECD a few years ago, which de facto concerns the abolition of our banking secrecy, continues to cause us pain in the belly. You might remember: In 2008/2009, then German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrück launched the hunt for tax refugees and tax evaders and managed to put Austria, Switzerland, Belgium and Luxembourg on the so-called grey list of tax havens. The OECD has then drawn up this Article 5, which concerns the transmission of information, and since there are no new agreements without this Article 5, we will agree, although we still believe that this is a hollowing out of our banking secrets. However, we can nevertheless agree with the slightest heart – Mr Rossmann made it sound earlier – because no requests for information are made anyway. – I have once asked a parliamentary question: In the last three years, there has been no single application. We're really creating a dead right to that. There is nothing going on at all because, when such agreements are concluded, the caravans of tax evaders have long gone further and sought another oasis. In this context, I would remind you that Article 5 still states that the information relates to the property of a person. – The property of persons is no longer possible in Austria at the latest since 1781, property collection patent Josephs II. Maybe you could modernise the text a little! I know. This is the legal person of a company, but it can be formulated differently! Agenda item 5, Electricity Tax Act: The objective is to largely exempt electricity producers from tax obligations. We therefore do not like it if a limit is now reached, i.e. an exemption of 25 000, from which each person has to pay 1.5 cents per kilowatt hour for his own consumption. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it simply counters the own commitment of this government to the expansion of renewable primary energy sources, if those who still consume the self-generated electricity themselves are forced to pay for it as well. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is counterproductive.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13377	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13450	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13471	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We will support the original proposal as well as the amendment request of the liberals, as we see the subject in a similar way. However, you have to say: The proposed amendment is a significant improvement because the limit of 5 000 kW/h is raised to 25 000 kW/h, and we do not want to oppose such an improvement. However, I would ask you to look at the whole thing from the bird perspective, to take a step back, then we are actually discussing a levy on something that is itself produced and consumed. That means we are in our tax debate rather in the Stone Age, I would say. We want a simple, understandable and a fair system of taxation. There are, of course, different priorities, but I think we have to assume that we find an additional tax, an additional tax for each activity, and then negotiate whether we restrict them in any form or whether we draw a lid. I think that's the wrong way. In this context, especially since we are already on the energy issue, I would like to point out once again that we wish to have a discussion on the eco electricity law as soon as possible, so that we can also discuss feed-in allowances, because there is a massive redistribution from bottom to top. All those people who can afford a photovoltaic plant benefit from the promotion, and those who cannot afford to do so must co-finance these fundings. So we need to discuss this soon. Finally, I would like to say that this tax is also valid, less is more: less bureaucracy, less creative tax and tax solutions – more money for people and more freedom as well! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13505	Ms Mag. State Secretary has given his opinion on the matter. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13526	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! I would like to say a few words about this. Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, I am very pleased that we are now debating an increase in self-advertising, which I have proposed to the coalition partner in mid-March. Almost four months later, we are already debating an amendment to the bill, and that is not natural. I am expressly grateful not only to the colleagues in the Ministry of Finance, but also to the coalition partner for taking a step with us. Before I come to the issue of self-advertising, I would like to take a brief look at another point that we are now discussing, namely the amendment of the Electricity Tax Act, which Mr Pock and Mr Haider have just mentioned. Let's remember! Before this change, there was a very emotional discussion about the Electricity Tax Act. I have received very, very many emails, citizens' requests and so on, because in some media there was talk of a so-called solar tax. I would just like to mention the good order that we are talking about the electricity levy from 1996 and that the discussion was facilitated by the adoption of the Federal Ministry of Finance, which was criticized by very environmentally conscious citizens, but also by industry representatives. Throughout all party borders, it was called for to make investments in renewable energy more attractive and, of course, to produce a further tax advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was important to me personally that we discuss and discuss all aspects of this change, as some criticisms have also come that, for example, only individual areas benefit from a change, such as agriculture, such as only farms. I believe that we have now found a solution through this increase. Personally convinced me was the argument that municipalities, but also schools and others were favoured by this change. One important aspect is that we now come from a free border to an amount free of charge. What does that mean? . That means that we only spend more than 25 000 kilowatt hours on this charge. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issue of self-advertisement, and I would like to say that the discussion about it has briefly run high due to a not so less case of a football president in Germany, which, of course, has also taken off in Austria. However, the S & D party has not only been involved in tax fraud on the subject, but has also repeatedly spoken about it in the government negotiations, and I am of course personally pleased that we now have the right to adopt a legislative amendment to that effect. I should like to point out one thing – this has also been mentioned in some of the remarks: It is not about criminalising, nor about criminalising us personally, but it is about creating a better way to be taxed, but also about supporting those entrepreneurs who are tax-attribute who take their taxes and taxes, which simply correspond to competition. In particular, it also has a distorting effect on the market if certain participants fail to comply with the rules on the free market. This is due to those who comply with the rules that pay and pay their taxes. It is therefore a matter of equal treatment, including a form of tax justice, and ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a question of proportionality. We may well have a distinction between intent, gross negligence and slight negligence, on the other hand, we must be particularly careful. Consider also those cases in which the auditor is already on the roof, so to speak, with the intention of finding out whether we really want to do so. Until now, it was so that one could use the instrument of self-advertising, one had to pay almost the interest in default. And it makes a difference, of course, if you can expect to pay only 1.9 percent interest on default, and on the other hand, you have to pay people a mortgage credit with increased interest rates. It's just an injustice. But again to clarify: I am not concerned with criminalising, but I believe that we should all be concerned about combating tax fraud as widely as possible, creating instruments on a legal basis and working to ensure that distortions of competition can be prevented by tax fraud, tax evasion, even on the free market. It's not about the so-called small fish, it's not about accounting errors, it's not about cases of slight negligence, it's really about the right - under quotes - "big fish" that we're going to have tighter rules in the self-admission from October – if you, ladies and gentlemen, agree to this bill today, and the people are no longer as favourable as they used to be. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the government programme, for example, says on page 107 that the Austrian Federal Government acknowledges the fact that domestic action against tax fraud, tax evasion and can also be tightened. This project has not yet been completed with this innovation, but an important, a real step has been taken. I will also be personally involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13589	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13611	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to begin by commenting on the electricity tax on renewable energy. What is particularly true of this law that we are adopting today? – We decide to impose a steering charge, which will go in the other direction for the first time. For the first time, a steering charge is not introduced to move something, but it creates an exception in an existing law. The issue of renewable energy will be cheaper – unfortunately not to the extent that we have presented it, but – the Secretary of State has already said it – perhaps we can continue to work in this direction. I would like to thank the industry representatives for their constructive cooperation in the preparation and implementation of this law. I would also like to thank the many citizens' initiatives, which have really risen to the barricades, so that a little further progress can be made here, for example in the Waldviertel Energy-Stammtisch, where we were able to initiate the Round Table with the Minister. But we will also have problems with this law. Old plants may have problems recording own consumption at all. Operators have to keep an eye on the 25 000 kilowatt hours to start the discharge at some point. This very soon leads to the Financial Penalty Act, because it is not regularly reviewed, and so you can make a little bit of the bow. We are also debating the issue of administrative assistance in tax matters today. It also seeks to combat tax fraud internationally by introducing simultaneous tax checks at home and abroad, by examining the spontaneous information that there is suspicion of tax fraud abroad, and by many other things. The exchange of information with the Channel Islands is also an important point in this regard. The Financial Penal Code shows that the ring for tax evasion is getting much closer. All those who have a bad conscience shall, if the Secretary of State wants it, remain until 30. Report on September. It is also budgetaryly so that there is still a lot to come in. At the same time, however, we do not want to lose sight, and I am speaking now to our Secretary of State. She said it was not about tax fraud, it is not about the “little fish. ” [[State Secretary Steßl: No, I said to criminalisation!]] It's not about criminalization, it's, it's it. I would like to make a few examples of this. Where is a financial penalty initiated? – If the accountant does not control one of the 13 billing features in an invoice and asserts the pre-tax deduction, then there may be a financial penalty in which, on the one hand, the boss and, if it goes stupid, the association will also be punished. In the worst case, this can make up for the double pre-tax rate. However, it may also be that an employee does not properly control the head's wage calculation and is therefore accused of evading the tax. It is also about families when, for example, a spouse starts working only in the autumn and the amount of earnings for the single-earner discount is exceeded by a few euros. Financial penalties can also be initiated in this case. It is about the energy levy for self-consumption if one fails to reach the 25 000 kilowatt hours. I think we should discuss these issues again and put aside these minor, these slight negligences, because this is how we can push forward decriminalization, as you, Mrs State Secretary, have said, and protect our entrepreneurs and their employees from such insanity. – Thank you for an interesting discussion in autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13647	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13669	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about the Electricity Tax Act. We have submitted an application for the removal of the taxation of own consumption of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. I think that this is an essential approach, which also includes a system component, because we simply need to strengthen our own consumption. If we raise borders or remove borders, for example, we can also win large businesses to actually produce more electricity on their surfaces and to use it for our own consumption. That is why we have proposed that this limit be completely removed. This was not carried out in the Committee. The government then passed the originally planned limit from 5 000 to 25 000 kilowatt hours To raise it. This is a first step for us. That is why we will also agree, but it is only the second best solution. President Hofer has tabled another amendment which corresponds to our original request. I advocate that we vote in favour of this amendment because, as I said, this would be the best solution for a change in the system. In this sense: Maybe you'll still think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13708	Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13729	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Groiß from the ÖVP, on the subject of bagatelles and on these things: If someone forgets something in an invoice and it's about €1.20, then I think we'll be transparent. For example, if someone cashes 6 million commissions, as we know, and forgets them, I think we should look at them. It was and is the aim of this Federal Government to take many small steps, especially in the area of tax and tax justice. I recall the question of the Stability Pact, I recall the question of the tax law which we have already made. That is to say, it goes quite clearly to a tax justice and also to a tax justice. The Secretary of State has said that we do not want to distort competition. That is to say, those companies that clearly and clearly declare everything should not have a competitive disadvantage to those who know how to put lucrative carousels in motion. There have already been many ways of moving your profits from there to there and from there to there. If profits rise at a place of business, then the parent group suddenly increases the license fees, the money flows into the parent group and is not taxed there. We already know all of this and we know that there is still much to do there. There is much to do in Austria, there is much to do in Europe and there is a lot to do internationally. [[Abg. Wheeler: Trade Union Federation!]] The union union has always done its duties properly. There are statements from the Financial Office, which have miraculously changed from one to the next. I would also expect the trade union association to see exactly what each individual citizen can expect, namely that a decision will be taken by the financial office and that it will not be withdrawn after a good opinion next time. This has been done by the citizens and this has also been earned by the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is much to be done in Austria in terms of tax justice, as has been said, in Europe. We have now taken a few small European steps. Our main focus, but also that of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, is Austria. ==References====External links== April said that we are so tired – and I think we can all sign it – that we are so tired of what trade unions negotiate year after year, month after month, not as much remains in the wallet as people needed to boost the economy in Austria. And I agree with my previous speaker that I do not understand why the economy is so opposed, because people are doing well, in terms of domestic demand, then the economy is doing well. If we were to think about it, we would be a step further. The Austrian Trade Union Confederation will approach all political parties in the next few days, but also NGOs on the issue of wage tax down. With the help of a signature action by the end of the year, we are trying to help people to achieve a balanced concept, a good concept that includes more than just: Taxation down!, that is to say, a real change in the tax system, can be presented and implemented. In this sense, I ask you to support us under www.labour tax. [[The speaker pointed to the poster, which she had made at the beginning of her speech on the speaker's desk, saying: "Principle tax down! www.labour tax-runner.at’]] I think we will reach half a million signatures and then create a tax reform that will enable people to boost domestic demand and enable the economy to create jobs again in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13778	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13823	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the issue of tax-honority. That's the one point. Taxation of wages is also a matter. The opposite is blackwork, and we certainly do not want to promote that. I assume you're happy to help all the taxes they're supposed to pay. The electricity tax is another issue. We've actually prescribed taxes for a long time, which never paid anyone until someone came up with it and big vortex. Now, thanks to our vice chancellor, the God has been regulated in such a way that all those who take it seriously with the renewable energies actually have a tax relief. The current regulation is such that the own needs of up to 5,000 kilowatt hours are exempt, but only in the case of fossil primary energy sources. If renewable energy is used, this exemption shall apply up to 25 000 kilowatt hours. This still works in a relatively simple way. If the investment can no longer be carried out, no one needs a counter, then no one needs to prove that he is not actually taxable. This is reasonable access and in fact facilitates tax-honority. We have thus adopted a regulation encouraging those who want to move towards renewable energy to do the same. Mrs. State Secretary, you have also noticed that agriculture is more involved. That's it. An example: The Steiermark Chamber of Agriculture has been running a research project over the last two years and has been analyzing ten different types of farm in agriculture. We now know that we have many opportunities for more energy efficient working in the area of pig farming, chicken farming, the mast. There is now a consultation programme in which many participate. More than 250 farmers have already been included in this advisory programme with relevant farm facilities. We can expect energy efficiency-enhancing measures to be implemented and, over the course of this year, between 50 and 100 companies will be equipped with photovoltaic installations that can challenge this more efficient use through renewable energy, and thus independently in the region, with their own value added on their own responsibility, go the way of the energy transition of the future and do not wait for anyone to do so via a cross-subsidisation. [[Abg. Brunner: Energy efficiency! Influence on your party a little!]] They do it simply because it is economically reasonable and with the farm consultants of the Chamber of Agriculture they have been developed in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way we like in the ÖVP: going new ways, using economic power, using brains, using intelligence and then doing things in a way that is good for the environment and also for the company. This is the way we like, and this tax solution supports this because it is the first time it differentiates in the direction of renewables. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13862	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Financial Criminal Law 2014 in 191 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Ddr. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment on paragraphs 1 and 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who give this part of the draft law a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft Federal Act amending the Electricity Tax Act in 163 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I therefore begin by voting on the part of the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Deputies Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. I shall be voting on this part of this draft law as it stands. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for this part of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention on mutual assistance in tax matters, as amended by the Convention on mutual assistance in tax matters. Protocols entered into force on 1 June 2011 to be approved in 179 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, colleagues on the provision of wealth data. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Vogtei Guernsey on the exchange of information in tax matters, to be approved in 143 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol prohibiting the illicit trade in tobacco products to grant approval in 135 of the supplements provided for in Article 50(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And I would ask you, at least during the voting process, to give up intermediate calls! - Thank you. This has been adopted unanimously. Furthermore, we come to the vote on the request made by the Financial Committee that the English and French language versions of this State Treaty, in accordance with Article 49(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[16:46:37]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 8 to 10 as well as the Citizens' Initiative No. 43 (228 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14067	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lipitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14094	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now negotiating one of the two joint reports from the Committee on Petitions, which deals with citizens' initiative 43 and petitions 8, 9 and 10. I want to say that it's the first time we've separated this. I think it is very positive that we should put together a subject that includes several petitions and citizens' initiatives in a collective report and, now, I say, all the others in one's own. However, I would also like to thank Mr Konzett and Mr Düringer, who have been consulted in the Committee as an interlocutor. I also felt that this was very positive, although we said that we had a bumpy start in the Committee on Petitions. But I have found it very positive how we have come to the decision to carry out this hearing as well. Thank you very much to the other political groups for having done so together. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Pock and Mr Pirklhuber on his report.]] We have these four negotiating items, where, after the discussions, we have unanimously agreed to take note of the whole – on the one hand, as there has been a separate law for the hypo under item 1 today, and on the other hand, we are still negotiating the Rules of Procedure. It is foreseeable that there will be an agreement, or that there will be an agreement in these days so that the opportunities for these petitions, whose desire to do so, will also be created. However, I would also like to reflect briefly, because I very much liked Mr Düringer's statements in committee. He referred less directly to the petitions and the citizens' initiative, but he addressed the round table. He said there was a failure of society, there was greed. – Yes, there has been greed where there is no doubt that you simply get more liability commissions to do something through liability. Mr Düringer also said that society must change. I think there has been a lot of things going on, because a rethinking has taken place, and I believe that there has been consensus today that there should never be such a thing as the hypo case again. We'll only find out in about ten years what it's done. But he also said one thing: If he had to decide, he would have to decide for feeling, because he talked to many experts and everyone explained something else to him. It was simply not possible for him as a person to determine the right way. There has been a decision today, and from our point of view it is the right decision. We can calm Mr Düringer's voice. We have a good feeling. Something he said and what pleased me very much was that income has to be relieved. He said that clearly and clearly in the Committee. My predecessor briefly noted that there is a signature action on tax reform, and I cordially invite Mr Düringer to attend, too, because he has said this clearly and clearly in the Committee. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Mr Rebaur said today that the millionaire tax could become a mass tax. – I would be very glad if it were a mass tax, because then everyone would earn so much. But I say on the part of the SPÖ: We are glad to see a clear relief from workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we are on the right path in the committee, we have found the way to make up more often, we are discussing things, and then we will continue this Committee on Petitions in the next few years as we have done.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14174	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14195	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lipitsch has already carried out it, there is a collective report here with three petitions and a citizens' initiative calling for information on the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria. From my point of view, it is important that we take all 250 000 declarations of support seriously and that there is a clear mandate for comprehensive information. In the hearing it also became clear that there are quite different opinions, viewpoints, entrances. From my point of view, it is important that we examine each and every one of us be taken seriously – even if there are few, from my point of view, in this complex and difficult matter, who have expressed a continuous opinion over the last few days and weeks. I think there are also few who have absolute competence, overview and insight into the whole. That is why, I believe, it was important that our Vice-Chairman Michael Spindelegger has examined all the solutions, and that they have been examined by constitutional and European law – first of all, the insolvency that some of us here in the house call for, second, the establishment solution and third, the degradation unit. In the case of insolvency, I believe, one is not aware that this would have had an inestimable impact on all those involved, for savers, creditors, investors, companies, but also for the location Carinthia and for the location Austria. Insolvency would also have brought many risks. I once asked how many People working there: There are 6,000 people who would have been in great uncertainty from today to tomorrow. And with insolvency, too, and this has already been explained by our Minister of Justice here several times, much more property would have been lost. Therefore, this degradation unit is intended to enable a differentiated and individual operation. It allows us to be flexible to explain this complex matter. And it also enables us – and that is, I believe, important from the taxpayer’s point of view – that we minimize and limit the damage. So the path is specified. We have made the decisions today. I can also clearly mention here, I think, that there is a clear roadmap. The courts determine. There are over a hundred procedures and thousands of files. It was used by the Griss Commission, which brings experience, competence and independence. And, of course, it is also in the process of reforming the Committee of Inquiry, and I hope that it will be possible to get a new Rules of Procedure soon. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Neubauer.]] The three main demands, I believe, are absolutely essential that we use all means and possibilities to reduce the damage. However, from my point of view, it is also important for us to take responsibility for all the perpetrators and causers, and for all courts and control authorities to carry out information. On the other hand, it is also important to keep the damage to the Republic transparent, because with these amounts the population can almost no longer follow. These amounts are simply immense. Finally, it is also important to mention, particularly as regards these four citizens' initiatives and petitions, that it was on the one hand the citizens who voted, on the other hand, but also that we do not continue to carry on mutual debt allocations on the other, but it is crucial that, as far as possible, we perceive the responsibilities of this House and establish protection mechanisms in order to prevent a second case to this extent. Very important, I think, is, and we all felt that the trust of the population was shaken. It will only be possible with explanation, dialogue and transparency that we will regain fundamental trust. It was a courageous decision that was made today, but also the right decision. I hope and wish that we do not have to make such decisions again. It is now about working this whole thing out wisely and wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14256	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14278	Mr President. I had the pleasure of being present to the last Committee on Petitions for the first time, because we have just dealt with the collective report on the 250 000 supporters. 250 000 supporters of several petitions, including a written petition, are a very great sign of how much the people actually want an investigation committee. [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Dietrich, Mr Pock and Mr Pirklhuber.]] When you consider how difficult it is, above all, to sign a petition over the Internet – it is not so easy to find the right text there – I think that there is enormous pressure on the people. And in comparison to other petitions, this is by far the biggest, and it really seems from my point of view more than ever necessary that we set up a non- decision-making committee – in addition to the decision taken by the Landtags that an investigation committee should be set up, signed from Vorarlberg to Burgenland, but also representatives of the two government parties. I believe that this also shows that the feeling is much more at the base, with the people than with the representatives present here. And if I have listened to Roland Düringer and Mr Konzett and have seen the enthusiasm with which this was actually spoken, this is for me an expression of a certain frustration and a rage towards the existing policy, as we are simply, I say, the Parliament, unable to set up a proper committee of inquiry. I don't come around, I have to blame red and black for simply ignoring and rejecting the will to clarify up to date. And if you are talking about new procedural rules, I would just like to point out that even if an agreement were reached before the summer, it would take months to reach a final procedural order in the committee of inquiry. That means we lose half a year again, if not even a whole year. Finally, this only serves to regain time, hoping that a little grass will grow over the whole matter. It is simply not clear to me from the logic why it is not possible to deal with this investigation committee under the old procedural rules, nor because they are for the benefit of the current rulers, because they still have the majority right; they can strangle everything at any time – and so on and immediately. When minority law comes, it is much more dangerous from the government's point of view. So I personally believe that the whole thing is just a distraction to prevent such an investigation committee from happening. You just want to get some time. And this maneuver, I mean, now also recognizes the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] The facts, it was discussed extensively this morning, show at the end that there is more than enough to investigate. On the other hand, I only need to refer to the reports in the recent editions of ‘NEWS’, of ‘FORMAT’, where there is no doubt as to how the so-called emergency nationalization has taken place. And I repeat it again: It is not a problem for me and for my group at all if we examine the years 2000 to 2006 because if there have been individual mistakes, then they will have to be prepared. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] But just always to say that the one who can no longer defend himself, because he unfortunately died or has failed, I think this is a whole, I would say, forward-looking distraction maneuver, just to prevent it from coming to an Enlightenment. Therefore, once again: For so long – I can only speak for my group now, but I believe that the other opposition parties will also agree – we will make a request to set up an investigation committee until finally light comes into the dark.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14351	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14372	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the message of this report from the Committee for petitions and citizens' initiatives on the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria? – It is a clear message: Let's open the way for an investigative committee! This is the clear message of the people to Parliament. And it is also the result of a mobilization that has taken place within a very few days and weeks in which 250 000 people, citizens and citizens of that country, have voted in favour of an online agreement, have supported a citizens' initiative. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is that so essential? – Because the Hypo Alpe-Adria is not only part of the banking crisis, it is not only part of a system crisis, but also, of course, part of a political crisis. It is an expression of a political crisis! Why? – Because throughout the whole process, throughout the genesis of this scandal, political control and transparency guidelines have become visible to you, or have not been implemented. This is a part of judicial history, but it is also an essential part of political responsibility and political question. And how can we restore confidence in politics? This was also a question of what happened in the discussion with the petitioners, with the representatives of the citizens' initiative. How can this trust be restored? – Certainly not by adopting policies. No, on the contrary! It is about the primacy of politics – against greed, against economic interests of profit, against the removal of all possible legal provisions. There's politics in charge! Clearly, this hearing has also shown that the population no longer has a diffuse discomfort. No, the population, and large parts of the population, has a clear idea of where to go. These are actions, demands on the table, and these, I believe, are an important signal to the Committee itself. It is therefore not a matter of orchidism within the framework of parliamentarianism, but of this committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the door for citizens to bring their concerns directly, including between the elections, is the door. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Interesting in the debates – some of which the previous speakers mentioned – with Roland Düringer and, above all, with Christoph Konzett, the initiator of the petition that I brought in, was this commitment or this political attitude of a 19-year-old student, which became visible there. And I would also like to use this opportunity here to give this petitioner a voice and to give him once again the opportunity to be heard, so to speak, also here in front of the plenary. I am therefore going to quote here from this speech by Christoph Konzett, which by the way was correctly quoted in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” and is also published there. Christoph Konzett, on the question of what the current situation in relation to this initiative means for people, said in the Committee: “I received a lot of feedback from the people who heard about the petition. They all think it's a crime, what happened to their money, and no one was against such a U-committee. They absolutely want to have the matter clarified and it is really important to them. After all, it's about their tax money. So many people call for such a committee of inquiry, and we really should listen to what the population requires. It is not enough in a democracy to be elected for five years and no longer to care about what the population wants at all at this time. Unfortunately, it seems to me that, after the election, many Members would simply be cut off from the outside world. Otherwise, I can't explain why you're against a U-committee. The Commission will be able to vote Don't you know what the population wants? Or is one so dependent on one’s party that one does not trust to vote against it?" Konzet analyses this once again – politically interested in how it is – and then formulates its presumption. He says: “Members should actually vote without compulsion. Unfortunately, one sees more and more that they are no longer free in their decisions, but only the party decides how to vote.” That is the view of the population, ladies and gentlemen. And we have to take that seriously. Konzett then continues to say: "If they oppose it, they will be excluded or no longer placed at the next election. It is sad that such conditions exist in Austria.” This is a criticism of a student's course of action, of the nature of parliamentarianism in this country, and I think we should at least take it seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Mr Eßl, the question is simply: How seriously do we take citizens? And finally another quote, where Konzett made the situation very clear: “This money is now more or less gone. A bad crime on the people who had to work very hard for it. And precisely because it is a crime, it must also be clarified, especially at the political level." That is the point of view of the population, which is why I quote from this speech. I think, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is not a question of expressing in detail the political so-called sensitivity of each petitioner and of every citizen, only: In this matter a young student has brought to the fore what thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in this country are thinking all the time and actually thinking right. For who, if not Parliament, has the right and the ability to set up an investigation committee? This is our most important task, because it is a matter of political responsibility! And that must be in the interests of every Member, no matter which party, because it cannot be considered that for €18 billion of liability is unclear, where they will lead to the relevance. Mr Lipitsch has rightly mentioned today twice the law which is being passed today. It is only in ten years that you will actually see – yes, you said – that ten years will be needed until you can actually assess how the effects ultimately stand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lipitic]] I'll tell you: This is not an answer for citizens. We certainly need this investigation committee quickly, because it can be very likely that the question of liability should also be re-examined in the examination of political responsibility. And that's exactly what has to happen – before the summer break. Ladies and gentlemen! This is our task here if we take ourselves seriously as parliamentarians. And I hope that you, together with us, will follow this path and give us a first signal here, so that we can finally implement the path to a minority right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14491	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14512	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think 250 000 people speak a very clear language. They speak the language that expresses that the time of deception and camouflage must be finally over and that it is time for us to finally bring light to the dark with this investigation committee we have been fighting for weeks and months. That is, people want to be heard. These are taxpayers. These are people who are personally affected – affected by the savings measures, whether in school or in school with their children, whether as pensioners who get less and less. Many feel a personal distress, and they cannot understand that on the other hand, means of control are wasted, wasted, thrown out of the window. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us be grateful to each and every one of these citizens that he shows courage and not anger that with this courage he supports the petition and seeks the way to actually move and change something. And we in here are elected by these people. We have the obligation to take these people seriously. We have the obligation to implement what the citizens want outside. We're not a body here that can decide for itself what we want. We have a responsibility towards people outside, and we should finally perceive them. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pock.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The hypo has done a huge damage in two dimensions: on the one hand, the financial – and we have already heard today, it is about sums of up to €6,000 per household, that is no longer butter bread – but in addition to this financial damage there is also a huge damage to politics, for the reputation of politics. Many, as I believe, are right now, of the opinion that the credibility of politics is far from the same as it should actually be. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all bear responsibility. We need to find out where there's something to explain. We must act, at last act on what it is all about. And we have to see that those who are responsible for these miscarriages finally come to court. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14564	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14586	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We have already heard a lot about hypo on this item on the agenda. My colleague Hable – not Habl e – will address this in detail afterwards. In essence, I would like to highlight two points here today, namely, the actual cooperation in the Committee on Petitions, but also a perspective where we can get where, so to speak, we set our objectives. I'd like to advance: Unlike in the hypo discussion and also different from in the investigation committee discussion in general, it was so that after the rough start – I personally am in no way sorry for the interruption, but I know, In some cases, this was also seen differently in the house – in fact, a very good cooperation has started in the Committee on Petitions. It must also be mentioned here that the initiative for hearing was not taken by the opposition parties, but by all six political groups, and in particular also by Mr Lipitsch of the SPÖ and Mr Gahr of the ÖVP, both for the hearing and for the proposal to draw up their own report. [[Congratulations on Members of NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach.]] This means that there was a common will to support the petition and the citizens' initiative with the 250 000 supporters as much as possible. Where are we going? – There are certainly different perspectives regarding the Committee on Petitions, but I have taken something with you here that I would like to show you. Last year or at least in the last legislative period, there was the great breakthrough that the Committee on Petitions now has its own brochure. [[The speaker keeps a copy up to date.]] This is the information we provide to our citizens. The German Bundestag issues the annual annual report of the Committee on Petitions. [[The speaker shall also keep a copy of this report up to date.]] Thereby all statistics can be found: What was the location of many petitions and citizens' initiatives? What was most of the federal states in? What were the most frequently sought-after topics? By the way, each department states in the preface: What has been done about the petitions and citizens' initiatives that have been dealt with in the department? What were the most important? What made law matter? – So here it is clear that we are not yet quite where others are already moving. That means: We have here an initiative by Mr Pirklhuber from the Greens, after which we also want to take a further lead on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. And I ask you and I also wish for this legislative period that we are actually working on making the Committee on Petitions a committee for citizens. This is not a keyword, but it is the only place, apart from constituency care, where people can turn when they have a problem at the federal level. That is to say, we, all six political groups, from the SPÖ to the ÖVP to the opposition parties, could jointly show that we are also moving a bit far away from day-to-day policy. I really wish I did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14652	Before I give the floor to Mr Hechtl, I would like to point out that we are hard at the border on decision-making capacity. If some left the room, it'll get tight. Please, Mr Hechtl, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14676	Mr President. Appreciate High House! Yes, this Committee on Petitions is really a very active one, and with the division of this report there has been virtually a novum and a very important sign has also been put outside, which shows how seriously we are dealing with and deal with these petitions and citizens' initiatives. And if Mr Düringer, among other things, has said that one should think about it, and has spoken of responsibility, he is right on this point. And when this is about a crisis and the damage that has occurred, Then it is only legitimate to ask the question: Why did this damage come about at all? Where is the cause of this damage? Considering, on the one hand, the situation in 2009 that the Federal Government has found and, on the other hand, the legal measures taken, it can be found that this federal government has very consciously assumed its responsibility. The emergency stateization was and the settlement is the result of a shameless exploitation of perhaps political power, but also of the personal interests of a person. Considering that the country of Carinthia has assumed liability at a level of more than ten times its national budget, this is a special interpretation of responsibility. The fact that the head of state has financed his prestige projects from the Hypo – and I may mention here some projects such as the construction of a stadium in which there is no play, or the sea stage, which is a financial million tomb, or in recent times the award of a loan of €3 million to the line of Styrian Spirit, which then went on to advocate, or the advance of an expansion in the south-eastern European area, where loans have been granted to large investors who were then not eligible – also shows his understanding of responsibility. I am convinced that this Committee of Inquiry will have to come in the near future, and so the Rules of Procedure will be guided in the right direction, which has already been put on track. In this context, I would like to say that the demand for bankruptcy has always been voiced that according to the experts, bankruptcy would have been the worst solution for us, for the reputation of Austria, but also for taxpayers. That is why I am glad that a Rules of Procedure will come and bring the clear rules for a committee of inquiry to Hypo Alpe-Adria. And I hope for the future that a disaster like that of the Hypo Alpe-Adria will not meet us again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14722	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14743	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few positive points, first of all: On the Committee's premiere to separate these reports in this way, including for hearing, we want to register that the representatives of the government groups have been fully involved in this and have been in the boat. This is not a matter of course, but it may also have its reason that the pressure from the citizens' initiative and petitions was so great. In fact, I am already at the very heart of this issue, because now it is about appreciating these initiatives. We have tried to make 20 requests here for a long time, but I am actually starting with that petition that the opposition itself has brought here, back into the house, but which has made it possible for the citizens to participate. That was, I think, not made unskillful – to once again offer a self- praise to the opposition. So it was spectacular: not only that there are nearly 150,000 signatures at the end – although the barriers are very high for the members of the older generation and they would have liked to do so too – but also, of course, that we had more than 10,000 signatures per day in those days of March three days in a row. How often the system collapsed at that time! It would have been more. This is a spectacular process. This was an all-time high in many ways: first of all, as far as the acknowledgment per day is concerned, and second of all, as far as the acknowledgment is concerned. Certainly, the government bank has done a good deal of assistance, because from there it has always been argued three-thirds why it should not be examined. There were excuses, from the use of the so-called Griss Commission to other things. So you have fired this process from the government side. But be it. What worked and worked was direct democratic participation, you have to say. And the citizens, the majority of the 250 000, the 150,000, have joined the desire or, in fact, the request – literally de facto – which we have already submitted here 20 times. That's the background! 150,000 citizens support this very text, which you have still rejected, and we will see whether it will be voted again this week. This will also depend on the success of the negotiations on the reform of the committee of inquiry. But I say one thing: With or without reform, this Committee of Inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria is nevertheless essential and inevitable. Also, the old procedural law is not as bad as you do, and I cannot spare you the comment: The greatest damage in these U-committees has always been caused by the majority, not by the minority. Who turned it off when the investigations went to the peak? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So the government is in the Lose-lose-Boat. In this situation you are now: If you continue to refuse the reform, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] They are caught that you do not want to investigate at all because you are building more and more barriers again. On the other hand, You cannot, however, prevent this committee of inquiry, which these petitions and this citizens' initiative have in sight. He'll come! Trust yourself! Trust yourself to get out of the possible compromises that arise during the negotiations. Well, the hot autumn, you can have it, and you'll get it. [[Abg. Rädler:... Threats!]] The hypo studies are inevitable whether on the basis of the old law or with the new one – I am both right. It is there the Causa that is the problem, not the Rules of Procedure. Stop me! [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's it!]] If we improve it, it is also good, if not, to work with the existing. But you will not do it – even because of the 250 000 signatures – that it will not be examined. So a beautiful thing, a good thing – at least for democracy, transparency and enlightenment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] In doing so, the citizens have contributed to the fact that this would have been the most natural thing: As in any developed democracy in the world, Parliament should have decided on this committee of inquiry for a long time now. It's going to happen with the pressure. By the way, we will start with the public agreement exactly when there is no damage to the outside, you can be quite calm and certain – that will result in the procedure. The real witnesses are not about to agree. So this excuse is no longer valid, but you have always had this offer. Now the voters are helping. They'll just have to bow to the pressure. Whatever the motives now the right thing is, it is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14823	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14844	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and thank you three times: For the first time to the colleagues of FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach for the joint petition. I would like to say a second thank you to Mr Düringer and to Mr Konzett. I think it is very great if citizens in this country are involved and pressure comes from the people – necessary pressure on this matter. And I would like to thank you a third time: 250 000 citizens in this country who have signed these petitions for a committee of inquiry on Hypo Alpe-Adria. We are particularly pleased with NEOS as a citizen movement. [[Abg. Rädler: Party! Party and not citizen movement!]] As Mr Matznetter is back, I would also like to take the opportunity to clarify three errors, because you, Mr Matznetter, did not find the opinion we presented yesterday together with a professor to be so great. They meant that this letter would not have been an informal letter. – This is actually not the important point. Of course, it was a formless writing. [[Abg. Matznetter: You claimed that!]] Yes, that was an informal letter, because, as one would expect in Austria in an administrative procedure and not a letter from the administrative authority, one would naturally also expect a Commission decision and no letter in such a procedure. [[Abg. Matznetter: This is embarrassing, Doctor!]] But why this has happened, we may still experience it at some point in time, but that is not the main point of the matter either. You referred to the official liability. – Mr Matznetter, if you had looked at the state aid law, you would know that, as creditors, you cannot rely on official liability, on claims for damages if they were to circumvent the state aid law, namely the prohibition on the implementation of the ban. [[Abg. Matznetter: I read it to you! ... yes, German, Mr Colleague!]] - Yes, it would be! There is no such possibility. And if you want to argue that this letter is a basis for that being declared inadmissible state liability will not be dismantled, but in the following years will be blown up by 13.9 billion €, so if you think that [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] You have a persuasive legal opinion on this, then I wish you a lot of fun. [[Abg. Matznetter: This is the Commission!]] They are not only against our opinion, but also against the opinion of four renowned university professors. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I do not think that you argue very convincingly, but I would also like to thank you, Mr Matznetter, for reminding me of why we have established NEOS, why we have moved in here, with your very often polemic and inaccurate kind every day, if I stand here, why we have established NEOS, a new movement: to bring fresh wind into the National Council. [[Abg. Matznetter: Who's the authority after?]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] I thank you for giving me regular motivation and reminding me every day of why it is so necessary that this house experiences fresh wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14978	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Unterrainer. - Please. – Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mag. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Matznetter.]] Unterrainer's on the floor! – Mr Matznetter, you are disturbing your own representative in his speech! [[Abg. Loacker: Mr. Matznetter is talking right now!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15035	All right, then I'll say thanks for the attention. – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the screen devices! Before: I am in favour of complete transparency and clarification in the matter of Hypo. I want to be fully informed and reworked by the Causa Hypo, which we owe to citizens in our country, also in this state of Austria. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich]] And if, as Mr Kogler said earlier, the opinion is that here in the house everything is confused, I would ask him to explain to the FPÖ and above all to the chairman of the FPÖ the the difference between mine and yours in the matter of hypo in Carinthia. That would be a fine, great story. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I want those who have acted criminally and act criminally, to be brought to justice and, accordingly, to be held responsible. For this reason I am for a complete, restless reprocessing and reconnaissance in the hypo matter. Only one thing is a crucial point, namely: Criminal proceedings belong to the courts and not to the Parliament. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Political responsibility!]] In Parliament, we are responsible for clarifying political responsibility, and this is also in the sense of the sharing of powers. We here in Parliament have to control and lay down the legal framework, but we do not have the right to speak. Our task is to establish political responsibility for the hypo-debakel in Carinthia. And again: I want full reconnaissance. I want them for three reasons: Firstly, we are committed to trust, and there is a massive public interest in a reconnaissance; because I already want to explain the matter out of my own interest because I really want to know how deeply the FPÖ in Carinthia is involved in the hypo matter. And I would also like to have information in court, because the judicial system can prove its independence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It can't be that in this country, in this state today, people still go through the swamp of corruption for years and are not held responsible for criminal law at all. It needs to be clarified and that must stop. I understand people when they're angry because they just see their own hard-assembled money disappear somewhere and don't know exactly where. I too would like to have some information on this, also in my own interest. However, ladies and gentlemen, we need an adjusted Rules of Procedure. I do not want to see a committee again, as was the case a few years ago, where colleagues and former colleagues such as Pilz and Petzner have actually only sunk in the spotlight where politicians have been led to the political battle. [[Abg. New builder: You weren't there at all! You can't judge that!]] That's not the point of processing! The meaning of the work is not the self-representation, it is sense to exercise true justice and to carry out information. And above all things: This topic is really too serious to perform a Kasperl Theatre in this sense. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wenninger.]] It is about fair conditions that ensure that the processing is carried out in a material, professional and non-discriminatory manner. Let us not forget the current court proceedings, especially in connection with the Hypo Landesbank. In my opinion, it is also important to wait for what comes out of these procedures, because this is essential for the further operation also towards a committee of inquiry. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the independent Commission led by the former President of the Supreme Court, Professor Dr. Irmgard Griss. In this context, the work is under way, and I am confident that this Commission will present a result which will provide a clear basis for further action. And again: I want complete information. I am convinced that the investigative committee will come. We must do everything in advance, however, so that this committee of inquiry can take place under great, right conditions. Among other things, this includes the amendment, the revision and the reform of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15109	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15131	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! We just have Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer, who has actually tried in his speech to present SPÖ as a defender of the parliamentary Enlightenment of the Hypo-Scandal, and who also prefers it to the population accordingly. [[Abg. Wenninger: That was a speech! That was a parliamentary speech and not a “word donation ”!]] The fact is, however, that in the debate of these petitions and also of the citizens' initiative to set up a hypo-examination committee, the following question will be very likely to be raised in the direction of SPÖ – and this will also be asked by me: What is it that prevents you, ladies and gentlemen, since now more than 20 times, from voting in favour of this committee of inquiry, together with the EIA? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] You have so far prevented more than 20 times this hypo-research committee, including Mr Unterrainer, who has now come out and has spoken here of the desire for full information. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] That is not credible, ladies and gentlemen. The people here deserved a credible approach to this matter, in particular because they have to stand up for what the government has been baffling, especially in the nationalization that you still and still want to sell as an emergency state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] In the final effect, the Austrian taxpayers, who will now also have to bear the costs, have been hailed by a Bavarian bank. Ladies and gentlemen, you make it easy – too easy! – how this is done again and again – for this reason I have had to speak again – if one single party in this causa is vilified. You make it too easy and you make it too easy on the part of the Federal Government by ousting a whole federal country for years. You make it too easy on the part of the government factions, too, if you think you have to point your finger at a person who can't even defend himself, because she's now dead. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the case. Interlocutory call for comments in its way shows very shameful access to this subject, Mr President, I must say that already. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eßl holds a table with the title ‘HYPO KÄRNTEN: DANKE FPÖ’.]] If you are also making fun of the fact that someone who will always throw dirt on you is dead, this does not necessarily speak for certain people in the ÖVP. This should also be held here once. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: If we agree to have a committee of inquiry to do so, it is not an argument for me and for those negotiating the reform of the Committee of Inquiry to say now: This can only happen if there has been this reform, just because you think there has to be a reform. So far, it's supposed to have been so bad. To remember: There have so far been around 18 research committees – Lucona, AKH and so on and so on. Do you really want to say that the current Rules of Procedure for Investigation Committees have not been implemented? I think you yourself will be able to confirm that there has been much further progress, a lot of information has been made and, subsequently, appropriate political consequences have been placed here in the National Council. One has nothing to do with the other. That is why this committee of inquiry would have been in use for a long time. I would like to give an example here in the House, which also illustrates how little a current reform has to do with a committee of inquiry which has been urgently to be used up until now and whose prevention has been prevented by you. Everyone here knows that the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, i.e. the rules of play for our actions here in Parliament, have long been in need of reform, but no one from the SPÖ or the ÖVP has come up with the idea of saying: The National Council is unable to act, so we are putting in place the legislation. – This is the subject of a reform of the Rules of Procedure for Committees of Inquiry. Of course, we will endeavour to improve the personal rights of the persons concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Of course, a key objective is to implement minority rights as the foundation of this whole reform – from the establishment to the opportunity to act as a minority in the Committee itself in the load of witnesses, including the appropriate evidence for documents – but it is not credible to the population if SPÖ and ÖVP believe that they have to move and move for so long until this reform is implemented if it has been implemented in recent years – I emphasize: [[Abg. New builder: Three years you had! Three years!]] years! – would have always given the opportunity to address this reform first. Secondly, it would always be easier for you from SPÖ and ÖVP to go through this committee in the current legal situation, because you would have much more opportunities to intervene in relation to the possibilities of opposition in this committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] But even this is not an argument for you, ladies and gentlemen, and you have been hindering the setting up of this Committee of Inquiry for more than 20 times. That is why, in the interests of the operators of these petitions and also of the relevant citizens' initiative, we clearly state: This committee has long been in place, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it is used as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15239	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 228 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 8 to 10 as well as the Citizens' Initiative No. 43. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:37:23]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 489/A by Mr Johann Höfinger, Mr Hannes Weninger, Mr Hannes Weninger, on a federal law amending the Water Law (222 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 282/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Schmid, colleagues, on measures to secure oil tanking (223d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 550/A(E) by Mr Harald Jannach, colleagues, on the introduction of an investment support for the conversion or repurchasing of tractors with vegetable oil engines (224d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 474/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on the prohibition of microplastics (225 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15326	We now come to points 10 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. This is what Mr Schmid has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15353	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! After 20 non-ending hypo-discussions for a change, a technical application will be made once, but it will also end with funding. The application is concerned with the drive-up protection of tank systems. The number of natural events that result in floods of residential areas is increasing steadily – only yesterday did the state of Salzburg return. In the case of appropriate water quantities, this leads to the flooding of unsecured tank systems. Quitting oil represents a successive oil accident, which in the object area leads to sustainable pollution and odor pollution, but also in free nature leads to considerable effort with lock wells and the like. The training of lifts for house tank systems is a low cost, which should be taken into account in the construction regulations or in the construction engineering laws; the cost of rehabilitation of any damage event is not insignificant for both the plant operator and the disaster fund. Funding by insurance is extremely low in the case of such contracts. The victims are usually addressed by the disaster funds and thus by tax money. With a national implementation, significant financial resources, both those of the investment operator and those of the federal government, are saved. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the proposal was approved unanimously, thank you very much. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Read!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Read clearly, please!]] I would ask that this proposal be treated positively again in plenary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15403	Mr Höfinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15424	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are now a few legislative drafts to debate and vote. First of all, let me address those who are subject to the Water Law Act – an important legal basis when it comes to public water supply and wastewater treatment facilities to take up a valid legal succession. This means that municipalities have a share in a property, in a water supply plant, and in the course of mergers there is to be a legal successor. In this context, legal obstacles were removed, which were very difficult to overcome. No water could be removed. With this change of law, existing contracts can then be incorporated into the new legal succession. There have been some uncertainties in advance, but quite simply: Existing law will be passed, the content of the contracts will not be changed. Operators also have legal certainty, i.e. their previous contracts continue to apply, they do not need to be afraid of having to meet other requirements. It is therefore, as has been said, a very practical law which comes to its decision. Another point – that has already been made by my previous speaker – concerns the safeguarding of oil tanks; also an important matter. All those who have been involved in a flood of floods, as I am a fireman, have experienced the effects of these floods, especially with regard to oil pollution. And that's why you have to say: Yes, we are required to put in place appropriate measures! If an oil accident occurs in the framework of a flood, I have to tell you, smell You'll see it before you see it. This oil film is distributed over a large area. If oil tanks are not sufficiently secured, such oil withdrawals may occur over and over again. That is why I would ask you to support this request, which was jointly formulated, namely to intervene in the construction regulations of the individual federal states. In reality, it is a request or a contract to the Federal Minister, namely: Mr Federal Minister, please contact the countries regarding their construction regulations in order to achieve improvements and avoid such oil accidents in the future! Furthermore, this is a common request concerning the prohibition of microplastics – an issue which has increasingly been addressed to the public over the last few weeks and months. You have been recognized: Yes, microplastics are found in different forms of environment, in water or in other means of transport. It is often used where this is not really useful, or where we as consumers are always surprised, in which forms microplastics can occur. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Our common idea goes in the direction that we say that if Austria were to award a research mission in this respect alone, that would be too comprehensive, but it would be important to work together in this important matter at European level as far as research is concerned. There are already a number of projects, such as the Oceans for Tomorrow research initiative, in which the focus is on the fight against microplastics in the waters. That is why it is also our duty to the Federal Minister to continue and strengthen these initiatives together and to implement the important findings from these research results and to work together at European level against further pollution. – That on these topics.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15479	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15500	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to talk about my request concerning the prohibition of microplastics. I think the problem is known. Plastics are becoming an increasingly important environmental issue. The largest plastic island or the largest garbage carpet in the North Pacific is 16 times the size of Austria – just so you can imagine the dimensions. More and more, however, we are also concerned with the problem of microplastics, which is found in cosmetics and also in clothing. My recommendation to the spectators, to you all, is to look at what is contained in your toothpaste, in other cosmetic products, in household products. There is also an app with valuable clues where what is inside, which is plastic-free. However, as a legislator, I think it is too little for us to draw attention only to these things and to what every individual and every individual can do, but as a legislator we have the responsibility to act here and exclude dangers of microplastics. That is why I have tabled a request to the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to review the effects of microplastics on human health, to examine the extent and sources of pollution in Austrian waters, to intervene at European level for a ban on microplastics, such as that made by the Netherlands, and to come into contact with manufacturers, so that it is now a voluntary ban on organically safe ingredients. There has been an amendment tabled by Mr Höfinger in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. But this is unfortunately a little bit, because there are all things out there that we could do ourselves in Austria. Of course, we must work together on this important point at European level, but this does not prevent us from finally acting in Austria too. Projects have been addressed, for example Oceans for Tomorrow, only the rivers there are unfortunately not included. There is a European Commission opinion on a request from my colleague, Ulrike Lunacek, which shows that the Commission has no idea how much European waters are burdened by rivers that ultimately transport plastic to the sea. That is why our initiative would be: Act consistently in Austria and at European level, such as the Netherlands. Here I have an opinion from the Netherlands,the position at European level in which they clearly address the precautionary principle and take action to ban microplastics at European level. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This is how an environmental pioneer country operates, Minister! [[the speaker shows the document again]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again and give you once again the opportunity to push the Minister towards the environmental pioneer country and submit my request in the form of an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] If Austria is to become an environmental pioneer again, it will need the approval of this proposal, and that is why I am looking for it. And I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15604	The application is sufficiently supported and has been properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15690	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15714	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of the present proposal for an amendment to the Water Law Act? – It is about creating legal certainty, and it is about creating a clear framework. Why is that necessary? – This is therefore necessary because the community structural reform is currently taking place in Styria. January 2015 will be effective. What is the current legal situation like? – The Styrian community order provides that in the case of municipal mergers, the municipalities concerned may transfer their rights and obligations to the new municipality in the sense of a universal succession of rights. However, this is not possible in terms of water law until now, because water usage rights cannot be transferred if they are not bound by property on a property or on a plant. It is therefore important, in the sense of universal care, to create this possibility of a universal legal succession. How is the water industry currently organized in Styria? – It is organized into 117 water associations, including flood protection associations, wastewater associations, the resource associations, and the new municipal structures require structural harmonisation among water associations. Where does the initiative come from on this proposal? – The initiative goes back to the Styrian country clubs of SPÖ and ÖVP. This means that local interests have been taken into account accordingly. What does this mean for the Steirers? – For the Steirers, this means that their water supply is secured, and it also means that the municipalities can fulfil their public task in the sense of sustainable water management and ensure the supply of drinking water and wastewater treatment accordingly. Therefore, the SPÖ Group requests approval of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15757	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15778	Mr President. Minister! High house! We will, of course, agree to this proposal concerning the law on water law, because that is a logical consequence. What I would like to say once more is the plastic problem that we have. We live in a plastic world. Plastic is something we can't always see, but it's really omnipresent. We have it in the food, in the detergents and in the toothpaste, we have it everywhere. I am convinced that many of you will be following the football match tonight, Brazil against Germany, and one or another may be able to buy a beer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] I don't want to ruin the Gusto now, but the beer already contains plastic. If you say, That doesn't matter, I drink mineral water anyway!, then I have to disappoint you too, because even in mineral water there is already plastic. The problem, in my opinion, is this omnipresence of plastic particles, whether in food, in clothing, in all the things we attack. Just this mixture, this cocktail is far too little researched, and you just don't know the effect of this cocktail, don't know how it works and what health effects it has. And I think we all agree that health is our most valuable good that we have. I come back to the microplastics in the sea, in this respect we have already heard an impressive number: It is 10 million tons that flow into the sea per year. Not only that it's bad there – if you're going on vacation soon, I have to tell you: 3 percent of the beaches are already contaminated with microplastics! , we don't talk about the plastic bottles at all, exactly – we also need to think a step further, because this microplastic, which is located in the sea, is of course also traced back to humans through the food chain. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: From the plastic bottles!]] I also have a number: 95 percent of all Austrians already have plastic in their blood! This is a number that is incredibly impressive and really very scary. The fact is, we take plastic over the air, over the skin, over the food, we attack it, plastic is omnipresent. A subject of which the government has already adopted a little, but I look at what has really been decided. For example, the need for further research is to be discussed with experts and to work together in EU bodies. – For my understanding, it is normal for you to be informed about all these things as you work together and act together. But that's far too little for me. While at least the Committee on the Environment decided to talk with each other and to continue working together, it unfortunately looks a little different in the cooperation with the Ministry of Health. This has been devalued a little, as the health risk has still not been demonstrated. Since that's not the case yet, you won't act here. In my view, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually an irresponsibility, especially in view of the fact that we still have the precautionary principle not only in Austria but also in the EU. So my request is not to stand still, but to evaluate, to act. And I would like to stress once again that health is our most important, our most valuable asset we have. I therefore ask not only the Ministry of the Environment, but also the Ministry of Health to become active there. And even from the point of view of costs it is to say that prevention is definitely always cheaper than repair. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15821	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15842	Mr President. - Yeah, right. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Can I at least make the greeting? Mr President. Federal Minister! Actually, we're talking about the Water Law. [[Abg. Kogler: Make an intermediate call!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - You've got the cake! [[Abg. Kogler has a trumpet ahead.]] We are talking about the Water Law Act and, of course, about the Reform Partnership in Styria, how it will be lived for example for many others. Of course, these reforms also have consequences, and one of the most important measures is the transfer of water rights to the successors, that is, not the attachment to property, but the attachment to legal status. This is contained in the present proposal for an initiative, which has been dealt with accordingly in the Committee on the Environment. At that time, I was only disturbed by the argument of the liberals who meant that we would open the door to further mergers of communities in Styria. I don't understand what this has to do with it at all, but that's the populism that we experience in this house day after day. [[Abg. Neubauer: It doesn't meet so often!]] - Please? [[Abg. New builder: Day after day it doesn't meet!]] - Who doesn't meet? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You were not present in the Committee on the Environment, Mr. Neubauer, you are always noticed by unpleasant calls of call! That's always the same thing. [[General cheerfulness as well as congratulations with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You should bring this house more dignity! So I would ask you to join this initiative, too, from the liberals. Mrs Brunner, you should take up a new saying, namely, the active Ministry of the Environment. [[Abg. Brunner: Unfortunately he is still!]] You used to say that you wish for a new Minister for the Environment, perhaps you could bring your respect to the new Minister for the Environment and congratulate him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15952	Mr Pock has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15973	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! The template is steep, the entertainment value was high. Return to microplastics: I think that is one of the applications that deserves special attention today. I am very grateful to Mr Brunner of the Greens for the fact that this issue has been dealt with in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and not so grateful for the amendment tabled by the Government parties. I would also like to ask for attention because the issue is deeply anchored in society, in the population, and there is also a great deal of uncertainty. No matter if you address the topic at the workplace or in the kindergarten visit or even here in the high house, everyone knows, microplastics may be in the toothpaste, may be in the plastic bottle, but of course we do not want to speak of evidence-based politics and here no equal to a ban, but we want there to be a scientific survey of how far primary and secondary microplastics are spread and what impact it has on the human organism, but also on ecology. Of course, we support the Greens' request. However, I would like to make sure, in addition to the Greens' request, that research capacities in the European Union are used financially as well as in human resources. For example, the German Environment Agency has already awarded research contracts. This is where cross-border research cooperation is needed. It would certainly also be possible to find cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany for our space, because the argument of SPÖ and ÖVP is already correct that we as Austria cannot move much alone. I think the motion for a resolution would have been aimed at finding a starting point. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] However, the amendment of red and black refers only to plastic waste and packaging plastic and not to the real topic of microplastics, where the distribution is already taking place in cosmetics, in drugstores such as toothpaste or also in food such as honey. This is where we really need to get in the way. Here I ask for the support of the Green Brunner request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16016	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16037	Mr President. High house! Allow me to address the four requests in question shortly. First of all, the proposal for an initiative concerning the Water Law Act. This takes into account the fears of the Styrian community regarding the legal succession of water use rights and counters these fears by creating a clear new regime without additional procedure. In the sense of legal certainty, this is only mandatory. This request, of course, welcomes my full support and support in the sense of pragmatic, practical, good. With regard to the safety of oil tankers, it is unfortunately true that it always comes through flood events to swim up oil tankers and, subsequently, to the pitiful pollution of the environment, soils and water. Here, the federal legal framework is clearly regulated in the Water Law Act and in the Commercial Code. There is in itself no need for legislative action from my point of view. There is a sufficient legal base. I would of course like to respond to the request that the federal states, because there has been jurisdiction in the framework of the construction regulations, have a uniform level of safety, and in this sense have a positive impact on the federal states. With regard to the request that has been discussed in connection with the investment promotion for the conversion or re-purchasing of tractors with vegetable oil drive, we have for a long time no longer planned the re-purchasing of tractors in investment promotion, and we are well aware that we already have a strong over-motorization in this sector. In my view, it would be a false signal to re-enter this here as part of the investment support for the purchase. In addition, a clear regulation has already been given for the conversion of tractors and stationary engines to plant oil operations within the framework of the projects of ‘climatic mobile’, and also in the new rural development programme that we submitted for approval in Brussels. As far as the proposal for the prohibition of microplastics is concerned, I fully agree with the assessment that plastic does not, of course, belong to water, and, in particular, with regard to microplastics in consumer goods such as cosmetics, as it has been mentioned, of course, there is an increased need for regulation at European level. I will also make every effort to improve the legal system at EU level in the light of the request. I can inform you that I have already made a statement in my section that at the next meeting of the Environment Council, at the request of Austria, this issue is already coming to the agenda and that we will also be calling on the Commission to do so, because that is urgently necessary in my view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Brunner: (in the direction of ÖVP) No condolences?]] In addition, it is quite gratifying for companies to now increasingly impose themselves on themselves to make very strict self-compulsory commitments for the use of microplastics. This is an important first step, but we will certainly call on the next Commission to establish regulatory statistics at EU level. – In this sense: Thank you for the attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16091	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16112	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In her remarks on microplastics, colleague Refuserstorfer did not make today's football evening beer particularly tasty. I express my hope, and I think there is a sense with Mr Preiner that at least there is no microplastic in the Austrian wine. As far as the water is concerned, I hope that, in view of the purity of our waters, we are still not too plasticly contaminated – which brings us to the Water Law Act. The present legislative proposal, already implemented by several previous speakers, helps to give the newly created communities in Styria the opportunity to enter the previous contracts with water user rights providers in the course of the Community legal succession. This was the case with the same rights and obligations and conditions as previously in these Treaties, which was not yet possible according to the current legal situation and jurisdiction. In our view, therefore, it is a standard which will ensure legal certainty in the public, but also in the interests of the existing legal authorities, thus ensuring water supply as had been done in the interests of general care for the population. We therefore request the approval of this amendment. I also call on the FPÖ to vote in favour of this innovation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16145	The next item is Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16167	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, we are very pleased with the change of mind as such, for the Committee has not yet necessarily spoken of this. Let us now look at whether the change of mind is actually following actions; then we would like to follow Mr Rädler's recommendation that we pay tribute to you and respect a minister who actually decides. Mr Fichtinger! Not only did my colleague Refuserstorfer give you the beer a little, as I should say, not very tasty, but unfortunately there are also these microplastic balls in the wine. So that's what it's supposed to do with it, too. You today – yes, I don't know what you'll drink at the football game. But regardless of what are these microplastic balls? These are microscopic little particles of waste, and you'll find them everywhere. They can be found in the water, in the beer, in the mineral water, in the honey, in toothpaste, in the digestive system of animals, where they cause inflammations, and even the shells are no longer what they were, and also the oysters are not recommended. How do these microplastic balls arise? – On the one hand, it is weathered plastic waste that is weathered, crushed and broken by the sun, wind and other weather influences. The assumption that they are only found in waters is unfortunately wrong, because they are also to a large extent found in the sewage sludge. The sewage sludge is released from agriculture. The wind brings these plastic balls, the wind brings them into the meadow, the wind brings them to the flowers. The bees bring them back into their chambers, and you'll find them in the honey. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] That is, the worst thing about it is getting into the food chain. And another one comes to it: You can enrich yourself with pesticides and environmental toxins at any time. The second producer of these microplastic cones is undoubtedly the cosmetics. However, there is already a scientific group in Germany around Sebastian Pörschke from the Fraunhofer Institute for Environmental, Safety and Energy Technology in Oberhausen. This has cost-effectively, for the industry almost cost-effectively, invented new products via carnauba waxes, beeswax, salt, sand, nutshells. These products can be produced at any time in this particle size required by cosmetics, namely from 100 to 500 micrometers. As I said, this is not a funny topic. Even if you don't see microplastics, you should deal with it very seriously. There is no knowledge of the medical consequences for people. In the Netherlands, we have heard, microplastics is already banned. In America, it is thought to ban it. I think we could be very good at doing this and would be pioneers in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16224	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16245	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Winter, it is quite remarkable what agriculture really has to do with it. Sometimes, I think, a little more technical information would be appropriate, then it would probably be a slightly different form of speech. But let's leave it. A few sentences on the agenda item 12 concerning vegetable oil use: Experience in recent years shows that mandatory requirements do not make sense in the event of lack of interest. On the other hand, it is quite clear that for those who want to use vegetable oil, there are possibilities of support in the rural development programme so that they can be used accordingly. The agenda item 11 concerns the area of oil tankers: The final effect in the amendment is quite clear about the request for the Federal Minister to create the same standards together with the federal states. The fact is that, as mayor of a community, which was deeply affected by Danube floods in 2002 and 2013, I would like to maintain this from the practical experience: In August 2002, where the water stood a little, there was an oil film on every window and it was smoked in every house. This was much different in 2013. Thank God has changed a lot to the positive. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Rudi Anschober, Environmental Councillor in Upper Austria!]] Finally, it is also the construction regulations of the countries that regulate them accordingly. You can't ban everything anywhere, but you can make a lot of things so that you can deal with it reasonably in the event of a disaster. To Agenda item 10: One can discuss circumstances and one can see community combinations somehow, but in the end they are about rights of use in water supply and disposal. Through the new communities that are created or already created in the Styria, it is necessary that one copy this also in water law accordingly. I think it would be quite positive for all the parties in Parliament to take part in this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16282	Next word: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16303	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Environmental protection is a necessity. We have the obligation to leave our subsequent generations an attractive, intact environment! But, ladies and gentlemen, FPÖ has made a request for an increase in investment support for retrofitting and also for the re-purchasing of tractors on vegetable oil drive. We cannot support this request. On the one hand, rapes and sunflowers should be used primarily for food production, on the other hand, we know that we have already decided on the appropriate investment support for agriculture. I would also like to mention that changes from tractors to plant oil drive are already being promoted in the climate-active programme and that countries, within the meaning of their country autonomy, Mr. Colleague, are also taking advantage of the opportunity – I just mention the example of Lower Austria – to provide appropriate funding. The FPÖ's application includes a doubling of the funding as it now provides the Lower Austria country for the conversion to plant oil drive for tractors, with regard to the re-purchasing of up to 20 percent. For example, if a new tractor costs € 100 000, the funding would be € 20 000, which, of course, is very, very much. I believe that this money could be used to make sustainable better investments. I am thinking only of the rapid, rapid and rapid expansion of broadband Internet in the rural regions. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16344	The next item is the speech by Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16365	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the effects of microplastics and plastics in the discussion, especially about the spread across the rivers and seas. There are already significant concentrations of microplastics in the world seas, which have already been recognised by the EU and are seen as a problem. Research is discussing and warning about secondary effects. Microplastics has already been demonstrated in some foods. A major problem is likely to arise. but be sure that microplastic particles absorb pollutants such as plasticizers, PCBs and even DDT like a sponge and that ultimately, via the food intake of animals, these return to the food chain from us people. However, it must also be said that there are concentrations in the trace area, which are classified by experts as safe. Research in these areas with regard to secondary effects of microplastics should be strongly forced across the EU to ensure legal certainty. It would be desirable, as the German Federal Environment Agency has done, to make a recommendation to the industry as it has already been taken up. Especially in the cosmetics sector, many articles are taken out of the program and microplastics are now replaced by corresponding degradable substances. But we would also need a discussion to remove microplastics from the programme in industry, where it is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16407	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16429	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the item on the agenda 11, i.e. the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schmid and Mr Ing. Mr Hofer and the amendment tabled by Mr Höfinger and Mr Weninger on measures to secure oil tankers, which we adopted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 26 November. ==References====External links== My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, over the last 14 years, we have experienced a century high in total; My colleague, Mr Prince, has already done this. You can see that a lot has been done in recent years. On the one hand, money was provided to increase flood protection efficiently – with 15a agreements with the countries. On the other hand, we must take further measures to make further arrangements in the future. The most effective flood protection is the state of Vienna with the Danube Island. One can say that even if the project was strongly criticized at the time, it is a very effective protection and still has safety potential for future centuries of high tides. On behalf of the Group of the There is already a similar case in the industrial order where industrial plants have to take appropriate arrangements for oil tankers. We discussed this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and adopted the amendment unanimously. I am seeking approval so that further measures can be taken in order to effectively combat floods or their consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16469	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft federal law, which amends the Water Law, together with the title and receipt in 222 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on item 11 on the resolution relating to the Committee's report 223 of the Supplements on measures to secure oil tankers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 27.) Vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 224 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on item 13 on the resolution relating to the prohibition of microplastics annexed to the Committee's report 225 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Brunner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a general amendment. I will therefore vote first of all on the amendment tabled and, in the event of its rejection, on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 225 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Mr Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, speak for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on the prohibition of microplastics annexed to the Committee's report 225 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 28.) [[18:22:03]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 13/A by Mr Mag. Christiane Brunner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Recording of Environmental Noise and on the Planning of Noise Reduction Measures (Federal Environmental Noise Protection Act – Bundes-LärmG) (226 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16594	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16622	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! To the last vote: I think it is a bit surprising if the Minister for the Environment has already announced that he will become active in the Council and the government parties, in particular your own group, will not be able to agree to our request. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It would have been a support for your own minister. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] But now to my request, which is now on the agenda, namely to protect noise: Noise is also a major environmental problem; it is perceived in the perception of the population as the biggest environmental problem. In particular, this refers to the traffic noise. We have a Federal Environment Protection Act, which unfortunately does not provide the necessary protection for those affected. Action plans will be drawn up here, maps on affected areas will be drawn up, but there is no right to noise protection for those concerned – therefore our request in the Environment Committee for the same right to noise protection: to change the law in such a way that citizens actually have a right to noise protection. I think everyone who is somehow burdened by traffic noise knows what this is. It would be the minimum that we concerned would also have a certain right here. This environmental law has also been discussed in another agenda in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, namely the enforcement of environmental law in general, in order to comply with the so-called Aarhus Convention. In Austria, there is the possibility for citizens to obtain environmental information, there is also the possibility to participate in environmental procedures, but there is no way of actually implementing environmental law. I have experienced many times that citizens are frustrated to lose faith in the rule of law if something that is right, which is set out in laws, can then be bypassed and, as a victim, one has no means to act against it. We have held a hearing in committee with experts. The discussion was, I believe, very good and very objective. The experts have all explained to us the urgency of the need for action. We have put forward a proposal to this end. Now I think it is okay that we can discuss the proposal that we can make other proposals, but all the experts have said that Austria needs action here, that Austria is one of the few countries that are once again being cheated and condemned internationally. Unfortunately, our request was postponed in the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – I did not understand it at all – because the fears were: Yes, then we have even more civilian protests, even more citizens participate, then everything is delayed, and that is absolutely unbearable for project promoters. I think that this is a strange access for parliamentarians, because we have laws here in the House, and at the same time we cannot allow citizens to sue these rights and what is laid down in the laws. That's where I ask you: What are you afraid that you will not be able to entrust to citizens what we decide here, too? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Existing laws!]] How seriously do we take this into account that we are adopting laws here, but where we do not want citizens to be able to appeal to these laws as well? I think this is a democratic policy task, and therefore I would like to ask you again: We shall put these requests again, and I would ask you, Mr Minister, to become active in this sense and to send us a presentation to the House. Perhaps it will be easier for the government groups to agree. Obviously, an opposition request cannot be accepted, although this would be very, very urgent, in the sense of environmental protection and in the sense of civil rights, because the environment also needs a vote in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16674	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16696	Mr President. Minister! Dear colleague Brunner! I believe that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection it is common sense that we are all committed to noise protection. [[Abg. Brunner: It wasn't Common Sense! You rejected it!]] Wait, I'll be right there. But just as you have formulated the application, you have to put it a little further. We all know that noise, whether we want it or not, is part of human cohabitation. That's perfectly clear. We're not going to reach an unblemished society. If you say that we want to give this to the citizens now – I think a project promoter is a citizen too! [[Abg. Brunner: Yes, he can also sue his rights!]] You can believe me. I live in Tyrol, we have a lot of transit there, we have a large railway line. That's what makes all noise. But I think you always have to weigh things in life: What causes the noise, and what does it look like? What's the disadvantage? What are the economic consequences? What about jobs? – I don’t think it makes sense to delete this pass, as you would like. That is why we will not support this request. When I look at this: There is also an ambient noise action plan Austria, and from the Tyrolean point of view there are parts 8 and 8B Tirol. For example, your colleague Ingrid Felipe, the Green Chief of State, has signed this. So this environmental noise action plan cannot be that bad. Again: To say, this passus is too simple. You should think about it. What does that mean for people? What does this mean for the economy and for jobs in a region? Thank you very much, and we will therefore not support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16743	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16765	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the context of the Aarhus Convention, Mr Brunner, welcomes the somewhat individual interpretation of the last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: We've organized a hearing. We have heard the experts who for the most part have recommended us to deal urgently with this issue of civil participation and to regulate it by law. The Greens' request has been slightly different. We then came to the opinion unanimously, and I would like to quote Mr Pirklhuber – that is to read in a minutes – who at the end of the meeting thanked me for finding a common way of doing this. However, the Greens have insisted that we vote in favour. That is why we have also made this request and agreed unanimously as a further procedure, also in agreement with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, to settle these matters as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Brunner: No, that was not unanimously agreed...!]] But it should be read in the minutes of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The topic of noise: I am very grateful for bringing this issue to the agenda of the National Council's plenary session before the summer, because this is of particular importance for the Austrian Government during this period of government, and it is also reflected in the work programme that we strive for a clear reduction in the burden on pollutants and noise. [[Abg. Brunner: It is to be read that...!]] We know that almost every fifth Austrian, every fifth Austrian, feels disturbed by noise. This goes from transport to commerce and industry to neighborhood, so the span is very large. Therefore, there is also no uniform noise protection law in Austria, but several legal provisions at the federal and country level in which the noise protection measures are regulated. I would like to point out that after a little over half a year since the Federal Government was in office, a concrete reform has also been launched in this area. It is currently a regulation on noise limits for the Federal Roads sector, i.e. motorways and highways, which is already under review. I believe that we are on a very good path in this area and that this issue needs to be dealt with even more concretely at European level in the framework of a new directive. Austria is also on the right track in this area, and I would be pleased if we could find a common procedure in the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16821	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16842	Mr President. High house! As soon as possible on the request to update the Federal Environmental Protection Act, as proposed here in the application: The protection of noise is, of course, of the utmost importance from my point of view. This needs to be regulated by improved noise protection regulations in the various material laws. In particular, the transport sector should be mentioned here. This is, of course, to be welcomed. However, the Federal Environmental Protection Act is not the appropriate measure for this, because this Federal Environmental Protection Act essentially regulates noise mapping and the development of strategic action plans. These strategic action plans do not, in fact, represent actions linked to individual objects. The deletion proposed by you, Mrs Brunner, of § 7 para. From our point of view, 12 would actually contribute to the fact that the action plans would become much more inconcrutable. From my point of view, this is inconceivable and is not considered appropriate from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16872	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16894	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Noise, Environmental Protection Act: Noise, ladies and gentlemen, is called noises, sounds, which, due to their structure, mostly volume, affect the environment, especially on humans, but also animals, such as the whole banging to New Year's Eve, disruptive, and even harmful to health. Despite habit, noise can have a negative effect on body and psyche. Noise can disturb the biological rhythm and cause massive sleep disturbances. [[Call the SPÖ:Zillertal!]] In order to avoid noise, Mr Commissioner, various measures are being taken – right and important! But you should not forget all the protective measures, ladies and gentlemen: Noise can also come from kindergarten, school, leisure facilities, football fields, tennis courts and so on. We from the FPÖ say: Noise protection with eye measure! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16927	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16949	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I would also like to lose a few words in advance on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This has already been a few times, and it has already been a bit moving in the culture. Here is a warm thanks both to the environmental spokesperson of the ÖVP, Mr Höfinger, and also to Mr Weninger as environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ. We have come to a relatively constructive cooperation, which must be said, even if, of course, there are different opinions. Thank you for that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] On the matter: In our view, the implementation of the Environmental Noise Directive by means of the Federal Environmental Protection Act was an important step, especially in view of the strategic noise map to be drawn up every five years, i.e. the action plans for each mode of transport to be decided. From our point of view, the introduction of a subjective right to noise protection is not the most urgent objective at the moment. Undisputed is that, of course, noise in any form can also be a burden; it can even lead to health damage, and it is an important topic. In my opinion, however, there are other measures where we can move quickly and do not need the subjective right to noise protection. Although my time is short, I would like to take three issues out of here. The splitting of the matter of noise protection into federal and different national regulations and the thus different competences make a uniform execution difficult. Here would be desirable a harmonization. The lack of binding planning coordination between regional planning of the federal states and transport planning of the federal government makes it difficult to effectively and effectively implement action plans. There too, greater coordination and greater federal competence would be desirable. The third point is difficult to explain to people, citizens, namely that noise is not equal to noise in us. The fact is that, within the framework of the legislation in force in Austria, different standards are imposed on noises of operation other than on traffic noises, on the other hand on neighbourhood noises and on other noises. I don't think it makes any difference when you sit in the living room and don't understand your own word. In any case, this would make sense for a uniformation, and noise pollution would have to be measured at the same time. In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16998	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 226 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:37:26]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 522/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Hermann Schultes, Erwin Preiner, colleagues on annual reporting obligation for the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH (251 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17049	We're coming to 15. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Jannach has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17077	Mr President. Federal Minister! What is the point of this proposal? – In brief: The company behind this logo. [[The speaker keeps the presentation of an AMA logo up to date.]] This is the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH. This is a distributed society of the AMA, i.e. the administrative authority that generally manages agriculture in Austria. On its own, the request made by the government parties is quite welcome. It is a small step forward: a reporting requirement for AMA marketing. So far, this society has been free of any control by Parliament. Parliamentarians have had no way of asking questions. That means you can already ask questions, but the answers were always so loud: We cannot ask questions about it because it is a distributed society. However, why we do not agree with this proposal: We have tabled a similar request in January for reporting on the AMA marketing, i.e. on the whole use and conduct of this company. This was postponed in the Committee. The government parties have now submitted their own request, but we believe that it has left out essential elements. We demand a detailed presentation, the request made by SPÖ and ÖVP only provides for an activity report. As Members of this House, we do not know what this report will eventually look like. If this report only contains what is published on the Internet anyway, then we can refrain from doing so. That is why I shall put in place an additional motion for a resolution which will specify exactly and in detail what we want to know about the AMA marketing. These are crucial questions. We want to know the origin of the funds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At present, only the funds received by farmers through compulsory contributions to the AMA quality scheme and through AMA licence fees are indicated. We have here about € 20 million a year of income from the farmers. We do not get any information about how much the AMA marketing gets from the federal government. We do not get any information on how much revenue the licensees, i.e. the trading partners, will obtain. We have no information on how much EU funding goes into this society. It is also very much about the use of resources: What is the whole money used for? We haven't got any information here yet. We hope that one comes, just don't think the AMA marketing announces that. We want to know: Where are ads placed, in which newspapers? What media co-operations are there? Are the AMA marketing contributions also supported by trading partners? – So far, we do not have a description of the entire administrative and control costs of AMA marketing. And you have to keep this in mind: There are a total of 44 000 producer contracts with farmers, with gardeners, in the milk sector, over groups, there are 800 licence contracts, there are 5 000 control reports from licensees and 15 000 control reports from producers, but we do not know what these controls cost. We also do not know how the award to the individual control companies works at the AMA marketing. That is why we have formulated this supplementary proposal, which also provides for a perspective on the use of funds for the coming year. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I already have the opportunity, I would also like to draw attention to this seal of goodness, which is always the sanctuary of the ÖVP Farmers' Association. [[The speaker holds a panel with the label “Checked quality AMA seal Austria”.]] It's known to many, but it's not as well known as you want to think. We have found a market research investigation that shows what the consumers link with it. – Only 30 percent of the Austrians connect this with goods from Austria. You have to keep in mind: For 20 years there has been the AMA marketing, which operates this advertising and employs at least €20 million each year from farm incomes, and only 30 percent of consumers believe that there is goods from Austria behind it. To the criticism that we always present, I get countless emails from the AMA marketing, which always reminds me that I should not misrepresent the quality mark, it is the best we have. I am ready to defend it, but not if it goes as it is at present. In the case of fresh meat products bearing this seal of quality – I speak here of Schnitzel and fresh goods – I think they come from Austria. For processed products, and these are much more – we have meat, as we have fascinated things – there is a third regulation in the AMA directives. If a third is not available to the processor, he can fry a third. It is then always argued that the yogurt is not different because there are kiwi and whatever is included, therefore we must have this tolerance limit, or if sausage there is no skin or spices in Austria and therefore one must add it. – No product needs a third of foreign origin. Not only do we criticize this, but also the stakeholders of AMA marketing at their meeting last year said that consumers have a right that red-and-white red is inside when red-and-white red is on it, holisticly, not just two-thirds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you don't believe this, I can read this again – examples of the correct use of the AMA seal –: usable for “gross materials from Austria, if they can be produced there” otherwise a third foreign products. So that is where we need action, and tomorrow we will ask the pigmeat import scandal for a brief debate on the answer to the question. As you know, the newspaper says that we import live pigs from Hong Kong or from the Bouvet island that nobody knows. We have received the answers to the question and will request this brief debate tomorrow. The Minister of Health has given a much more detailed information than the Minister of Agriculture, who cleans himself down here and says he knows nothing – he seems not interested either. The Minister of Health points out that only from the USA, Canada and Chile can meat be imported into Austria in fresh form and processed meat. Statistics Austria – now it can be said that it may have made some typing mistakes, but not in 20 different countries – lists pork imports from Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, India, Israel, Japan, Canada, Korea, Lebanon, Mauritius, New Zealand, Russia, Seychelles, South Africa, Uganda, Uruguay and Vietnam. I wonder why we are not doing anything here, but tomorrow we will discuss this in a short debate. I would like to point out once again to the SPÖ and the Minister of Health that it is urgent that it is time not always to give in to the representatives of the Federal Farmers' Government, but to really advance a quality seal law, which also deserves this name and also ensures Austrian quality under Austrian engagement.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17161	The motion for a resolution just read by Mr Jannach is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17241	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17262	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In one case I am right to Mr Jannach, we are also interested in the question of which countries actually imports meat into Austria. Because it may not be possible that an official post indicates three positions and statistics 15 or more. That is an undisputed question. In the second claim that you represent, it is really a prelude that you always think that this is a farmer's federal seal – although I would be delighted about it. I can already imagine that we will get it earlier than the liberal peasantry, I am sure, but the fact is that this AMA is socially occupied, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore a balanced – Mr Pirklhuber, I know, you are not fit anyway, it is the same as it is being done. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: No!]] There's never gonna be anything right about the Pirklhuber. That's what we're gonna do. It is simply a matter of accepting the agreement on the protection of species. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jannach – and I would have been surprised if he could agree – has therefore stated that it is a progress – yes, good, okay – but one cannot agree, because one does not yet know what is contained in this report. . Since it might have been interesting to appreciate that this first step is right, then to wait for the first report, to consider whether this report is presented sufficiently, comprehensively, objectively, then, under some circumstances, to request additions or improvements, perhaps to evaluate in joint work, perhaps in order to be able to admit that this step was the right one. I am interested, Mr Federal Minister, in this context, but also – and especially from the point of view of agricultural marketing – in whether all farmers' funds that are being collected are actually delivered. There was once a certain time, there was a great slaughter in Upper Austria – he is quite close to you, my lord there in the middle – who cashed from the farmers, but did not deliver the funds, so one had to use forced measures to come to these funds. It would therefore be interesting to know whether, in this context, there are still residues, whether these contributions have all been delivered, and if so, it might also be interesting to know which companies have so to speak, set themselves up against this marketing contribution. So it'll be exciting. In principle, I believe that this joint motion for a resolution has taken a first step in the right direction, and we are already excited about the results of this report. It may not be possible for the construction companies to pay well, but we do not know how the measures are taken, which priorities will be set, which marketing measures will be carried out. If the beard principle “He who does not advertise, dies!” is true, then the AMA marketing program was quite a positive one. I would also like to thank you for the announcement, because you, Mr Jannach, have presented it here. It's what it's like: It's the best seal of goodness.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17305	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17326	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Reporting obligation for the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH: The purpose of an annual report to the National Council is to provide information on activities and the annual use of resources. If we look at the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr ÖVP and Mr SPÖ, he is undoubtedly better than nothing. But if we look at this motion for a resolution very well, then for example point 4 – I have chosen it – is: “to promote general measures” and so on, “in particular the agricultural products”. Now, dear Jakob Auer, I'm asking you: What else is to be promoted? I think it would have been ideal of you if you had said: Look, that's right, this request is fine, better than nothing, but we look at it very carefully, Mr Harald Jannach, how it develops! It is, of course, questionable that agricultural products should be promoted here. That's why I'm asking you: What else, colleague? - And you answered it: I believe that this is the money of the hard-working farmers, and that is what the farmers are entitled to. I would be very interested in what should be promoted here in the future. Above all, it is important to me that there is a precise list, dear Jakob Auer, who gets when how much for what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17373	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17395	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. That is why, because we want and need information, we have tabled the motion for a resolution calling on the AMA Marketing GesmbH to act and on its activities until 30. A report is to be drawn up on the following November. The report will be submitted by the Minister of Agriculture until 30. November of next year will be presented here at the National Council. On this occasion, I am very grateful to the coalition partner and to my colleagues, Schultes, for the motion for a resolution, including the opposition parties who voted in the last Committee on Agriculture, and I hope that this support will also take place on today's plenary day. I think it is partly unscrupulous if one is already called for and criticised, without the relevant report being contained in the content. It would be correct if we first had the report before us, analysed it, discussed it. Afterwards, you can say what suits you, which may seem to be missing or not missing. Therefore, I would also like to appeal to colleagues from the FPÖ to rethink today's voting behaviour and perhaps to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution for a report by AMA Marketing GesmbH is a first important step in the right direction towards greater transparency, control and sustainability. The taxpayers, but also farmers, have the right to know what happens to the AMA marketing contributions, how the funds are used. We know that the AMA Marketing GesmbH has revenues of over €20 million, that over 2 million of them are also spent on wine marketing. What do we expect from the report? – Of course, it needs to be prepared in writing and is intended to provide us with comprehensive information on the activities and cooperation with advertising and marketing agencies with which media cooperations are to be started, how often the medium is switched on. – I hope that we will be informed of this, even as regards imports, and of course we will have to question why, from a state such as Bangladesh, where there is, for the most part, Islamic faith, pigmeat should be imported into Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I actually have full confidence in the content of the report we are going to be presented. In any case, for the future of agriculture in Austria, the recently adopted market regulation law is crucial. There is already a fundamental need for greater transparency and disclosure. I believe that we are on the right track to continue to be positive on behalf of the people of Austria, and that the added value should remain in the regions. I would like to say one more word about the Market Regulation Act, because we have left very sustainable SPÖ tracks here, in the sense of the regulation of small farmers, in the sense of young entrepreneurs promotion, but also in terms of the 100% degression of payment entitlements in the first pillar, in the market order, taking into account wage and social costs. This is what we will see next year, Mr President. [[in the direction of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] We know that this is the end of the current funding period. When the next one is started, we see which farms buy land, which farms manage leases. Then one can give serious answers. The strengthening of organic farming and the direct marketer is also an essential step in the sustainable, healthy production of food in Austria. – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17449	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Preiner. Mr Preiner! Mr Auer: Mr Auer, I'm not against everything. We will vote in favour of the present request of the government groups. On this occasion, however, I would also like to thank Mr Jannach. The impulse has been quite clear from him: in a more comprehensive application, which also includes transparency as regards the funding of the AMA, namely the presentation of whether or not all the support goes to farmers or not to institutions, GesmbHs et cetera. To have You do not want to agree yet, and that is why this request has been postponed. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has taken a first step, that has been commented on by you, and I can see it that way. Mr Jannach's proposals on the presentation of the report continue. I think it is entirely legitimate, Mr Auer, to demand such a thing, because it is at the same time feasible for a report to be structured. This is not unusual, and I think it is a very common procedure. But, well, be sure, we're going to agree, I just have to hold on to one thing: If it's the practice now to attack oppositions and impulses, then at least you should be a bit worthy – point one. And point two: One should stop putting into practice a very intense – and I almost have to say, incredible – barrage flood. They have postponed in this committee all other requests relating to the AMA: the AMA with regard to quality standards, namely the freedom of genetic engineering in the AMA law; the question of the extent to which guidelines are also formulated in the Agriculture Act. You have also postponed the request for rural development, or the request from me concerning the TTIP Free Trade Agreement, in which I call for these food issues to be removed from the contract and for us to be a Committee on Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is strictly unacceptable. If you delay a request two or three times, I expect you to make a decision sometime. If you are against the request, Mr Auer, then you will vote against it, because then we can finally discuss it again in plenary, and the matter has been clarified – namely, there is a majority against it or for it. However, if you seriously believe that rural development, for example, needs to be further negotiated, I understand a delay. During the summer, negotiations on rural development with the Commission will continue, and I ask you, Federal Minister: How will you inform the Members of this House? What is the state of the negotiations? And one more thing: I have heard in these days that the next committee meeting, which had already been agreed, is Mr Auer, namely the 9. October to be deleted for this year 2014. This would mean that the next Committee on Agriculture will not take place until November 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, we simply cannot let that happen. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] When it comes to such an important law, which is as important as rural development, with an annual amount of €1.1 billion – that is the funding of the federal government, countries and the EU – which is currently being negotiated with the Commission, and we are only getting the information in the committee in November, that cannot be it, colleague Auer. I expect that at least in October we will have a debate with the Federal Minister – from me to a summit, so that the Minister may know what he is about, because there is a tight time frame. That would be absolutely necessary, and I am really looking for your willingness. The second point is that I also expect the government groups to join our proposals in the TTIP Free Trade Agreement. We are open to a joint request, also for the possibility of a parliamentary survey here in the house, which we can also argue with the Committee on Agriculture because of this importance to our sector, where we can also break a lance for a transparent discussion in Austria, involving stakeholders, civil society and experts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17525	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17546	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) And very special: Appreciate spectators in front of the televisions! We will vote in favour of this proposal by the Stronach team, but also with Mr Jannach's motion for a resolution. I think that is justified. Harald Jannach has many years of parliamentary experience and knows that a lot is in detail, and that is why I think it makes sense that the report of the AMA is very detailed. Not only the origin of the funds is interesting. What surprises me greatly is that the AMA is not more interested in a designation of origin of the goods, that is, where the meat comes from. This would also be very important for the protection of the AMA. That is why I would like to appeal and ask, once again – this tactic in the committees has just been addressed by Mr Pirklhuber – because it is so important; Mr Auer, you too! Of course, the AMA seal is known, but it is also the most expensive seal of quality. It will become very interesting how much these page-by-page inputs in the weekend newspapers, in the Sunday newspapers, actually cost. There will be self-advertising with farmers' money, and I am convinced that every seal of quality that would have been available would have a better level of awareness. Minister! We were together at the Kronen Prize in Linz, co-workers Pirklhuber as well. We give prices, and that's right, because these are excellent direct marketers. However, it calls into question all the work if one does not have the large amount of control, where consumers should really be able to trust. That is why the great request: This is the designation of origin in the slaughterhouses. [[The speaker holds a panel up.]] In the case of foreign animals, where the country of origin is already the country of origin, the AT stamp is added. We know in which slaughterhouses which animal pits are slaughtered from which countries. That is why the authorities need only a will-reconnaissance to stop changing the country. The slaughterhouse has a registration number. We know where the animal was slaughtered, but we do not want to change the country anymore, i.e. Poland PL, Holland NL and so on. We have heard how many countries are importing meat. On this point, we expect clear support from consumer protectionists. I also ask the government parties to take action to protect their own clients. One thing is very crucial, and that has already been said: Where “Austria” stands, Austria must be inside. This must not be a question of labelling, it must not be a question of the specified formulations, but must be an indispensable principle. Where “Austria” insists, Austrian goods must be inside. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Think about it, and that concludes how many fruit juices, how many alcoholic drinks there are with AMA seal, and we can easily think about where the raw material comes from! These are just the essential issues, and I am grateful to Mr Jannach that this is being worked out: Who uses this seal of goodness? Who has the right to use it? Consumers in particular have the right to know what is really inside. In this sense, I really ask for support from all the parties present here, regardless of whether the government party or opposition, that we finally end these 15 to 20 years old discussions, that we finally come to reality and come to Austria. Where “Austria” stands, Austria must be inside! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17615	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17637	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Hand on your heart! Sometimes you get the impression that They have not only a Ministry of Life, but also a Ministry of Life-Effectionery. It is not only interesting to know the origin of the products. For us, it is particularly interesting – and I am also concerned with the 23 000 farmers – to know what is happening to the funds and where they are going. This is a major concern in the sense of our claim for transparency; to do so is also a great obstacle or a high latte for you. The fact that the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH needs to be assured from you at all, or we know what happens to the money, shows the size of the challenge. This issue, which was posted online after the last committee, is an activity report with many colors, but unfortunately bloodless, has nothing to do with what we all want to know. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] It's more like a brochure I like it if I want to satisfy anyone so that he knows what I'm doing with my money. However, when I look at how many people work there, and that's really informative, I think that's a bloated device, that it's a device that can be found in the shelter who always leaps out of the cabinet. That's not fair! It must be much more just. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We need to know and our farmers need to know what happens to their money. I quote from the 2013 Court of Auditors report: “In the view of the RH, marketing for farmers and their products was not a central task of the BMLFUW, but rather a matter of interest to stakeholders, trade associations or similar institutions, such as the AMA Marketing Gesellschaft m.b.H..” That's literally! I have problems to understand this in a meaningful way, because I think that we just have to demand a lot more transparency, that you also need to be much more behind it. I think you should not be brutalized by the agricultural market Austria. I would like to see the quality of the handshake claimed by Mr Blass once it is ready. It is not acceptable that the Committee has been postponed again. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is not to be accepted!]] I think it's still easy. There is not only the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH, there are pleasure regions and what else I know, and in every federal country there is a breakfast director who jumps out of a cabinet somewhere. I want this less, simpler and fairer, and that's what our farmers deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17698	Mr Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17720	Mr President. High house! Let me comment on the AMA marketing soon! The AMA marketing company GesmbH was founded just 20 years ago, strategicly quite properly as a flanking measure, as an accompanying measure to integrate local agriculture, the Austrian agriculture and the food industry into the common agricultural policy. It was important to meet a double challenge, on the one hand, to secure the domestic market, to maintain the loyalty of consumers, and on the other hand to open up European and third country markets, to work and to fight with EU support. And both have been successfully dealt with. We have reduced the structural agricultural trade deficit from €1.5 to €2 billion to less than €500 million today, while at the same time massive growth in exports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The Austrian agriculture and food industry is already exporter in quantities. Ladies and gentlemen, my aim is to ensure that Austria will also be exportable by the end of my term of office. I think that we are on the right track, especially because the AMA marketing has done and done excellent work, in particular with the two quality marks AMA seal and biolabel. These are, as it were, the signs that really worked successfully with. By the way, according to the AMA law, marketing, agricultural marketing is financed by producer contributions, i.e. by farmers. You have to say that clearly. It is not about means of taxation, it is about producer contributions. Mr Auer! I would like to take up the suggestion that you check retroactively if there are, in fact, still outside positions. I haven't been in the country for seven years. I would very much like to be commissioned in the house to check if there are outside positions to be lurked. [[Congratulations to Mr Auer and Mr Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, exactly!]] In any event, these promotion and quality improvement measures, which have been implemented through AMA marketing and the successful work of AMA marketing, have successfully managed our markets. The Austrian farmers and the processing and marketing companies of the Austrian food industry produce the highest quality standards and food of the highest quality, which have domestic demand and growing international demand. And we will consciously extend these efforts in a massive and powerful way, because this green force of the Austrian farmers and farmers, Mr Pirklhuber, this green force of the Austrian food industry actually brings us further in the creation of value and employment in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I am very pleased with the transparency of the reporting obligation, as mentioned in the request made by Mr Schultes and Mr Preiner. You know that transparency is a big concern to me. Mr Schellhorn. I'm disappointed with your remarks, your virgin speech today. I will, of course, be in the first report we are going to have until 30. November will supply more heart blood, as you have stimulated it, but one thing I'm telling you now: I reject the accusation of a bloated device in which we host breakfast directors.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17777	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17799	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian food production writes a success story, and the AMA marketing GesmbH is part of this Austrian success story. The consumption of cheese per capita in Austria was 20.5 kg in 2012, as high as never before. The cheese export to Germany 2013: plus 4.4 percent, beef exports to Germany 2013: plus 9.4 percent. In addition, a few headlines: ‘Agricultural exports continue to fly’, ‘Key trading partners: Germany and Italy’, ‘Young Markets’. That's where the question arises: Why do we know that? And: Why is that so? – And this is the direct connection to the AMA marketing GesmbH, because there are three tasks that this organization fulfils very exemplaryly and efficiently. One is quality assurance. My previous speaker has already mentioned this, the AMA seal. It allows companies to participate voluntarily and with this quality assurance system, which is certified, which is also controlled, to guarantee that their products come to 100 percent from Austria, with one exception – and I am now referring to the contribution of Mr Jannach. I take out the classic of this argument, the banana yoghurt: Because bananas do not grow in Austria, a maximum of one third of bananas may be inside in banana yoghurt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] That's easy. Mr. Steinbichler, I made a phone call with an AMA employee today. She told me it has already been explained to you countless times and you have failed to understand this system countless times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second feature, which is equally important in this context, is that the AMA marketing GesmbH provides information and makes advertising – on various channels, in daily newspapers, in social networks. It is professionally informed and professionally advertised. And the third function, the third task that this organization does, is the function of market research. That is why we know how our food flows are out there and how our food flows are inward. Based on the RollAMA, I can assure you that the Austrian farmers and the Austrian food processors know very well what is consumed in the households in Austria. For this reason, the production can be controlled very well. I also consider this third function to be immensely important and fruitful. I would like to close with a quote from a broadcast of the department food of the Chamber of Commerce: “Foods have never been as safe, high-quality and manageable as they are today: This is a merit of the entire agricultural and food chain – from the farmer to the consumer. “For safety and quality are not a mathematical coincidence, but a result of hard work!” We look forward to the report of the AMA marketing GesmbH. Thank you, Minister of State! Thank you and all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17862	Next speaker: Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17883	Mr President. Minister! High house! The AMA and therefore also the subsidiary Agromarkt Austria Marketing GesmbH is an important facility for the quality assurance of our food and therefore no longer to think away. It is true that farmers and farmers are paying the contributions that agricultural marketing contributions make, and my previous speaker has already said what the AMA is doing: Measures to promote the marketing of agricultural products, market observation in and abroad and search for new markets, quality assurance and improvement measures, information for consumers and various marketing and information measures, for example, contributions to farmers' newspapers. These are all important tasks that AMA should provide information each year about its performance and the use of resources required for this purpose. This proposal is a first important step. This reporting will increase the transparency of what farmers' contributions are used for, and of course it will also indicate the measures taken by the AMA. I am not unknown – and I think that many of you who have to do with agriculture are not: Many farmers feel somewhat restricted by the examination or by the control of the AMA in their free work. I know that from my brother who took over the parental court. The visits by the AMA always cause excitement, but not because you want to hide something, but because of the many conditions that are given you simply make mistakes sometimes and want to avoid them. There is a need to build mutual trust, and openness and transparency are important and the right way to do this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] This is particularly true of consumers; their trust in safe and high-quality products from agricultural production is to be maintained and strengthened. The importance of downstream stages of food processing, trade and gastronomy is also to be established in general awareness. Wholeness The safety and perceptibility of the origin of foodstuffs are very important to consumers. Whether all of this is covered by the measures taken by the AMA is intended to show the annual report and, if necessary, to be re-adjusted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17932	The next item is Mrs Ecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17953	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! It is with hard money that you have to deal with it carefully. This principle applies even more to public funds. After all, it is the property of citizens in this country. In this case, in the case of AMA marketing, it is about the contributions of farmers. Overall, it's about a financial volume of €20 million, and that's a lot of money. The agricultural holdings deliver part of their proceeds to the AMA, and the AMA ensures the marketing of the products. It is the right of every farmer, every farmer, to know what happens to this money, for which these funds are used. As an operator of a bio-fine shop in Salzburg, I have a very good natural and direct reference to agricultural products. Especially in Salzburg, this issue of creating more transparency is very important, because there are most organic farms in Salzburg. These farms receive €2.2 million for bioprogrammes throughout Germany. As you can see, agriculture is constantly developing in all areas. That is why we call on SPÖ not only to report on what happened in the previous year, but rather the future programmes in this report are important to us. One point I would like to address is the statement by Mr Schellhorn. You shouldn't be talking about it in advance. Let's look at the report. We can still make innovations in retrospect. I am particularly pleased that this request was made by five parties to the committee. Only FPÖ voted against in the Committee. I hope that this proposal will find an overwhelming majority today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17993	Next, Mr Magistrate. Underrunner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18015	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear watchers on the gallery and in front of the screens! I am pleased that we are able to vote today on a request that has come especially on the initiative of the SPÖ Agriculture Spokesman Erwin Preinerstande. Thank you very much, Erwin! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] The request that the agricultural market Austria Marketing GesmbH report be reported annually is a first but correct step towards greater transparency. It could be used under I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. More transparency not only calls for SPÖ, but more transparency is also required by the Court of Auditors. That is what we are fully agreeing. I am convinced that democracy needs transparency, it is the foundation and foundation of us. The public has a right to know the background to decisions; it is their money or the state of the people. We also represent representatives of this country. As far as the farmers are concerned: They work hard and are the contributors of the AMA. So it can only be right if they know and know what happens to their money. After all, it is about a volume of € 23.7 million. Of these, €21.5 million are national and €2.2 million are EU funds. It is planned that the report will be detailed so that everyone can understand what business and agreement has been made with whom, why, and what they have cost. As we have already heard, the report must be published on 30 June. Each year, the National Council is to be presented to the National Council. The report applies to the simplification and transparency of the use of public funds; and if we find that information is not clearly provided, it can and must also be re-adjusted. That is exactly the point where I am speaking to my colleague. Auer would like to be right: With a bit of a good will, Mr Jannach and the FPÖ could have agreed to this point if they had also seriously meant transparency. The Court of Auditors has already noted critically in its 2011 report that there is no full transparency in some areas, for example in the Chamber of Agriculture, the extended arm of the AMA. Especially during the debate about the almens and the Tohuwabohu around the measurements, the Chamber of Agriculture was both a controller and a consultant to the drivers. There are and gave inconsistencies, and in the end, it is known that the public hand always pays. That is why, in my opinion, transparency is needed in all areas; because the citizens have a right to know where their money comes from, what is paid and what they get for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler]] I particularly welcome the fact that today we are talking about a five-party request. All parties want information, only the FPÖ apparently not. [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say once again that this proposal has made a first step in the right direction. I hope that he will also be exemplary in other areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18100	The next item is Mr Schellhorn's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18121	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Minister, I cannot simply leave the accusation of polemics. I'm right, the AMA seal is a quality feature. It was a huge progress. What was done there was good for our farmers. But what I can't understand: Talking to the farmers, also with farmers who are very well anchored in the Chamber, one learns: They shall come to the new organic regulation back. They don't even know how to help anymore, because they just believe that the AMA Marketing GesmbH no longer supports them. That is why I call for transparency, and it is quite legitimate to demand it. If this transparency does not come by itself, then one must also insist on it as a Minister of Agriculture, because then the presumption that money disappears in any black box and money also “marries” from these areas elsewhere in order to promote any ads. [[Cheerfulness in NEOS, FPÖ and Greens]] The question that I ask myself and to which I would like to have an answer is: Why are cereal farmers exempt from these fees? Why aren't they included? - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18167	Mr Jannach spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18188	Mr President. Federal Minister! I liked this with the Blackbox very much; but unfortunately, it is not only contributions from the AMA marketing to the Blackbox on this page. [[the speaker points towards ÖVP]] [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Gartelgruber and Mr Pirklhuber.]] Mr. Unterrainer – that is why I spoke again – said: You said it was an initiative by Mr Preiner. – So that was the joke of the day. ==References== We have tabled a request to report on the AMA's obligation to report; and only in May did SPÖ discuss whether to do something like that at all, because it is “only” about €30 million; that is not what we want so transparently. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and MEPs of the Greens]] We have now been accused that we do not agree with this, but we must give the request a chance. – Yes, we give this opportunity, only we lack faith in this area. Five speakers from the government parties have gone out of here and have already spoken in the request for re-adjustment! If the AMA reports do not turn out to be the way we imagine it, then we could re-adjust. Why don't we decide what we want to know now? It's obvious what we want to know: Medium origin, medium use, in advertisements and all kinds of media, including Blackboxes. That is what we want to know. This has been the occasion for this request. We know very well that we also want to know the level of control costs. Why is that not determined? Our request is aimed at this, it is much more detailed. I fear – and this shows many years of experience here – that the report will look like this: The AMA marketing has advertising for Eggs made, she made advertising for meat – and that was the whole report. And then, in December, when we discuss the report, we meet again here and note that we have a lot to do with re-adjustment. We want to avoid this, that is why we reject this proposal for a "Wishivaschi", which actually commits AMA marketing to nothing – except to find out that it makes advertising –. We want a detailed list of all payment flows in the AMA marketing, we want a detailed list of all control transactions, all the awards of the controls. That's what we're going to insist on. That is why we firmly reject this request, which is much too softly formulated.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18257	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution on annual reporting requirements for the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH, which is attached to the Committee's report 251 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 29.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, colleagues with regard to details on the design of an annual reporting obligation for the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH to the National Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[19:31:36]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 490/A(E) by Mr Franz Kirchgatterer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues on international declaration on the rights of small farmers (197 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18325	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Kirchgatterer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18352	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For us Socialists and Social Democrats, social human rights are a cornerstone of politics in Austria and globally. The scandalous conditions in the developing and emerging countries in the textile industry are generally known: Child labour, harmful working conditions, unimaginable low pay. The Ministers for Development of Germany, France and Holland have drawn up concrete countermeasures. I strongly recommend that we join them quickly. This would be very, very good at Austria, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal deals with food production. There is also an urgent need for minimum social standards. It needs binding rules that work internationally. Heuer, 2014, has declared the United Nations the Year of Farmers and Small Farmers. In many parts of the world, agricultural workers and agricultural workers are among the worst paid professional groups. As one of the causes of the poverty and distress of small farmers in much of the world, their major problem in the procurement of seed is repeatedly mentioned. The profoundly unworthy working conditions in the shrimp market are hardly noticed by the world public. The global shrimp market is systematically built on slavery and trafficking in human beings and is dominated by a Thai producer. The Thai Government has refused to accede to the Convention against Forced Labour. Furthermore, the world-wide illustrious report on the modern form of slavery in the 21st century is terrifying. ==References== This should alert the international community. This must stir up the international community of states!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18397	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18419	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Heuer, the year 2014, is the International Year of Farming Family Farms. This year we want to take the opportunity to point out the rights of small farmers and small farmers. That is why it is happening in Austria, but in particular worldwide. While in Austria the situation of the smaller farmers has to be regulated in particular by the agricultural policy, in the world the situation is different. In Austria, for example, through the reform of the common agricultural policy, which we have negotiated over the past few years and which we have now also completed the programmes, we have achieved, that small farmers are particularly supported, that bureaucracy is being reduced, that they get support in the economy, because we want the small farmers to get a chance too. But when we talk about small farmers around the world, it's about people who are under enormous pressure. You may have heard the term Land Grabbing. For example, China or other large countries in Africa do not buy a few hundred hectares, but hundreds of thousands of hectares. In this way they banish the local population from production and even export the food produced there to ensure their own food supply, while the local people have nothing to eat. On the other hand, there is a need for vehement. This must be a concern of the United Nations, for it is a matter of securing food for a growing world population, soon 9 billion people, not only in Europe and North America, but worldwide, especially in those regions with strong population growth. It is therefore important that we take measures this year and beyond to support small farmers, because they are important in the fight against poverty and hunger, and they are important in protecting our environment and natural management. There are around 500 million small structured family farms worldwide. They feed around 2 billion people in the developing countries, thus almost a third of the world's population is supported and fed by these farms. These small farmers, however, are also under pressure as they often end up standing at the end, if they want to, of an exploitation chain and mostly living in great poverty. In these countries, these enterprises often lack capital. They lack knowledge, know-how, training to produce truly sustainable food. We had a large agricultural ministerial conference a few years ago with participants not only from Europe but from all over the world, with the aim of supporting such companies to these small farmers. There is a Ghanai proverb: The words are beautiful, but chickens lay eggs. – On the basis of this motto, we have tried to lay eggs on the part of the Ministry of Life of his time and even now in the process of continuing, i.e., to make concrete projects; not money from the modest development aid that the Ministry of Life at that time had to give simply somewhere, but specifically to support Austrian development workers with very small regional initiatives. I can list a few of these small regional initiatives, which have been concerned with helping small farmers. For example, in Cameroon there is a village where farmers, women, in particular, have been taught, how they can generate their own fertiliser from vegetable waste, so that they can set in motion sustainable production, or how they can convert to organic farming. Another project was supported in Ethiopia. That's where it was about getting local and old coffees. Such projects cost not summaries of money, but few thousand euros, although they have only a regional but sustainable effect. Mozambique is also a destination country where there is support. The ADA is also taking up agricultural projects there. This list could continue to be supported, including projects in Laos, Bhutan and other countries. In West Africa, for example, the rainforest is constantly being wooded. This means that if women want to cook, they have to take long distances to get wood. There is a progressive deforestation taking place, and at the same time, it is boiled in terrible circumstances. Lung diseases are the result. We supported a project by Austria called West Africa Clean Cooking Alliance. These families were shown new technologies, small kilns were donated so that on the one hand they could not waste wood, on the other hand they could cook healthyly. In conclusion: Consideration should be given to the fact that women in particular are often under extreme pressure, and in developing countries they are often extremely discriminated against. It is therefore right that the House should take up this issue and position itself clearly there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18496	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18517	Mr President. Federal Minister! I thank my previous speaker for his statement; I can already understand a lot of terms. I'm also glad to be able to finally help this flicker-leppy there and there. But if you see the global effects, then I don't know if the flickering tape will help or if you shouldn't really put a huge tension carpet. But I come now to the request to speak. I liked three points from this: Food safety and improvement of life bases while protecting the environment and biodiversity. - First of all. Secondly, the great topic of agricultural workers. – In this respect, we have not heard anything so far. And then there is gender discrimination against women and girls, the absence of minimum wages and so on. How does reality look? – Reality looks like a struggle of existence all around the globe on small farmers. That's the one thing. 80 percent of the world's population who are hungry comes from the country. Something's wrong. This is a schizoidal behaviour somewhere, or from the so-called Western countries, a very – I would say – hypocritical behavior. You try to arrange yourself with the people, there and there you take action – knowing that they can't help because otherwise they actually harm us Western peoples. Who is interested in the fact that on the one hand we are not cheap from Africa the things that get raw materials, and people are exploited? – And on the other hand, we go here and give them something small. I want to see that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Subcontinent India. In India, a leader of a group of landless people said: Please give us some land, then we have at least something! How can we cook something or manage something if we don't even have the country? – Most good, most lands are not in the possession of these people. - That's the first one. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point you have to consider is of course that you can see in South America, for example, that the situation there is such that the rainforest is wooded. Yeah, who's logging the rainforest? – That’s the question once. Who then sells these indigenous peoples? – 0.03 percent in Brazil own 45 percent of the country. Over the last 15 to 20 years, 35 000 families have been displaced only because of sugar cane cultivation, mainly people of indigenous people. In Peru, 70 percent, 52 million hectares of the Peruvian Amazon region are already divided into oil conveyor blocks, which are also located in nature reserves and indigenous land. Among the population concerned are 350 000 indigenous people. I could go on for a very long time now. The final sentence – which is very important – is: What are we doing in Europeans, where we are interested in dams, in oil, where we are taking raw materials? The land of Grabbing has already mentioned Mr. Berlakovich, where China – rich states, please – buys up land everywhere, for example in Cambodia and other countries, of course, because of raw materials. What are the Europeans doing? – Of course you don't do anything else. While the world community is thinking about rising food prices and nearing hunger disasters, the clarification of land law issues as a solution component is too little international attention. Greatly we have to get it! The little one won't help us. These are peanuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18594	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18615	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my express thanks to the members of the Committee on Human Rights, who have initiated this request. The discussion so far has been very encouraging, because it shows that there is a focus based on our own experiences, which perceives the importance of small farmers in international development in rural areas, and tries to somehow focus and support the importance of international policies. Mr Federal Minister, you are getting a real back-up from Parliament. In this context, I also mention the 2008 World Agricultural Report, which clearly states: The solution to the question of hunger is not a question of genetic engineering, pesticides or an investment offensive that has always been prepared in mechanization, but it is the question of supporting small farmers around the world. That's the challenge! I also think it is very positive that this consultative committee of the UN Human Rights Council is referred to here, which has argued and described five reasons for hunger in its statement. This is, on the one hand, the expropriation of farmers, namely land expropriation, forced removals. We forget that a survey, land titles like us, that all of this was first introduced; the Franciscan Kataster, the corresponding survey, rights for municipalities or for private property owners. In Africa, Land Grabbing is politically organized in a large style. Companies have authorized 80 million hectares, Investment Fund et cetera. So these are local challenges for politics and small farmers to secure survival in some form. That's one of the central points. Discrimination of women and girls has been addressed; Mr Ex-Federal Minister and Mr Berlakovich have said that correctly. The microprojects you mentioned at the time are really an absolutely exemplary, right way. Unfortunately, this has not become the principle of Austrian development cooperation, Mr. Federal Minister out of service or colleague. But that would be the task. This would now be the task of Mr Rupprechter to ensure one thing: that he also uses this back-strengthening, in an inter-ministerial way, so that Austrian development cooperation is clearly given a stronger focus on small-scale projects. In the last 20 years, the volume of investment in rural areas has declined dramatically in international development cooperation, Minister of State. You have to say the following: The European Union is not with us on this point, yet not in all respects with us. We have a pioneering role here; if we take it seriously, we can also move forward. And here I am looking, besides taking you to your own resort, to actively support this 2008 world-wide agrarian report from an Austrian point of view. This is one of the most exciting reports where 400 agricultural researchers worldwide have come to the decision: Yes, it is agricultural agriculture, multifunctional, ecological agriculture, which we must strengthen internationally. I believe that this is also an opportunity for Austrian agriculture and for you as a minister to be actively involved in this report at European level and also in your own place of business. We will, of course, support this report and this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18682	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18704	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and before The televisions! This is actually an ideal time; I should also like to thank the Committee for this statement, which we will, of course, support. It comes at the ideal time, to the TTIP discussion. I think it is really also the time to show that this is not a third-world topic. This is also a topic in Austria. Let us remember the times when surplus was discussed, we have surplus areas, we need to build biogas plants. Here I took a page from the ÖBf newspaper „WALD“. 47 percent of the total land area in Austria is forest. Let's add the lakes and the mountain areas, then we know where the surplus comes from. Then we know where the 200 percent export increase rates come from. They come from the rainforest. There the population is burned down, there with the most brutal violence the population is driven out. There is grown in monoculture soy, but please, completely silent, palm groves also grown in monoculture. The modern means in Europe is palm oil. Palm oil is found in cosmetics, palm oil is found in detergents. Palm oil is found in food substitutes. We have palm oil in block heat plants. This is the true madness that happens on the back of the environment. We know that each year a larger area than the entire area of Austria and Switzerland is being co-edified to rainforest. And we wonder about climate extreme? We wonder that the earth is coughing when we cut the lung? – These are the real effects, and that is why we should hold this discussion in Austria as well. Over 150,000 small farms have closed. This applies to rural areas, which is the thinning of rural areas. This is the loss of purchasing power and the crafted population, which the enterprises so need. Those who have grown up on such a small farm have been able to gain practical practical experience, already prepared for the professional life, we are missing today. These are the problems we need to address. That is why I would like to thank you for this statement, but please do not delegate to the Third World, but I would also like to pay particular attention to what we can contribute to it – even here in Austria – and I would like your support, Mr Minister! Soy from 400 000 hectares Area and products of 250 000 hectares Palm groves are almost imported from the rainforest. There's also talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18759	Now comes Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18780	Mr President. High house! Let me also briefly comment on this motion for a resolution concerning international declaration on the rights of small farmers. 2014 is the United Nations Year of Farming Family Farms. The situation of small farmers is particularly difficult in developing countries, but also in Europe. Small farmers are the support of agricultural production worldwide. They make the main contribution to local food sovereignty and crisis-resilience. 80 percent of the agricultural area in Asia and in Sub-Saharan, Mr Steinbichler, are processed by small farmers and gardeners. Small farmers usually operate with locally adapted varieties and thus make a very sustainable contribution to biodiversity, and with their traditional regional economies they also represent a valuable part of biodiversity. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The global problems and challenges are diverse, and the main problems that have already been addressed are: Poverty, urbanisation, land tombing, lack of access to investors and markets, and especially lack of education and innovation. One of the most serious problems is that the poverty of small farmers and small farmers is female, because more than 40 percent of small farmers are female and they usually have a multiple burden to point to. On the current discussion at the UN level, Austria's attitude is quite clear. We are working, in the sense of the motion for a resolution, on the current preparation of a UN declaration. We say yes to an open, non-prejudicial discussion on living and working conditions and on concrete ways of improving. We say No to imbalanced statements, which are without any benefit to the farmers concerned. I assure you that in my field of action I will always be advocates for small farmers – no matter where they live. By the way, I would like to point out that in this House a few days ago, we adopted the Market Regulation Act with a very generous and very sensible scheme for small producers, which can at least benefit 35 000 Austrian small farmers. Unfortunately, the representatives of the opposition voted against the Novelle Market Rules Act. You will have to explain this to the small farmers! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We do that anyway!]] Thanks to the majority in the House, it has been possible to implement this sensible measure and from 1st century onwards. January next year to 2020. With this, the government parties have made Austria a little bit more viable. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18820	Mr Buchmayr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18841	Mr President. Mr. Minister! With reference to this motion for a resolution, I should like to give a positive example of the social situation of small farmers, namely the organisation of FAIRTRADE. After FAIRTRADE, the difficult situation in the cocoa market and the extremely low income of cocoa farmers has led to a significant increase in the proportion of child and slave labour in West Africa. Poverty is the main reason why children are exposed to dangerous working conditions on plantations. In addition, the children come from countries such as Burkina Faso and Mali, which are sold to the growing countries and live and work under devastating conditions. The majority of small-structured family farms in West Africa have to pay very little money. These families live below the poverty line of 2 US dollars. Around two thirds of the total of 142 000 small farmers live in Africa. In order for them to be able to live on a sustainable basis by their work, In addition to social premiums, producer organisations from FAIRTADE guarantee fair prices. Recent studies show the positive effects of FAIRTRADE producers in the fields of harvest, income, standard of living, housing and education. This is just an example that school should make, and this shows how it can be very positive, as a consumer, to influence the entire miscarriage of small farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18881	Mr Eßl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18902	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very good motion for a resolution on international declaration on the rights of small farmers. We know that the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed 2014 as the International Year of Farming Family Farms. Worldwide, there are more than 50 million of these rural family farms, and not only in developing countries, but also in the developed countries, including Austria, these small-scale family farms are the main forms of agriculture in food production. For me and also for many others, an investment in these rural family farms is an investment in a sustainable and secure future for food production. However, we must note that these rural family farms, especially in developing countries, face massive problems. Despite their great potential, they lack capital, advice and knowledge of appropriate agricultural technology, as well as suitable farming and pasture areas. There are also problems in developed countries. So what should we do now to help these small farmers? – The The first and most important thing is from my point of view to enable them to have a good education. The second is that farmers must be able to generate their income, which is linked to food security. To generate income means to maintain a performance-oriented share of the yield in the value chain. Related to reasonable food prices are reasonable prices for agricultural products. – Here’s the appeal to the trade chains: A rejection to the cheapest price strategy that some trading companies are forcing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also a matter of allowing farmers to pay for the ecological and public services. Of course, the income situation in some developing countries is particularly dramatic. We know that agricultural workers, but also farmers in West Africa earn less than one euro a day, in India income is not much higher. Of course, it is not so dramatic for us in Austria, but I must also point out that the incomes of farmers are not above average. And the third point I would like to point out is access to and handling of land and land. The previous speakers have already mentioned it: China is buying huge areas in Africa, the Western Europeans are buying land in Eastern Europe, agricultural companies are upgrading! There are also rich people who buy land and land as a pure investment in Austria – I would like to point it out specifically – and farmers There is no opportunity to improve structurally, even on conditions which can be achieved through the proceeds. That is to say, in my view, it is important to strengthen ownership, to strengthen agricultural agriculture in the basic transport laws and to enforce them at European level. This seems to me to be a very essential point, because otherwise, in a few decades ago, we might be back where we were: that there are large landowners whose reason the farmers “must” manage. In Austria, we have a goal: comprehensive management by farmed family farms. Let us help that this is also being implemented internationally as a goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18963	This is what Mr Muchitsch has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good to be allowed to speak here on a motion for a resolution by SPÖ and ÖVP, to which all the political parties in the Human Rights Committee have approved. It does not work well if one has to deal with the contents: how people around the world – whether agricultural workers or small farmers – find structures in which they are simply exploited. We know many examples, for example from South Africa, where agricultural workers have to work under unworthy conditions: They have no access to toilets and drinking water during work; they must not wear protective clothing and are exposed to pesticides; workers are also stopped and accordingly influenced not to establish trade unions. This is a major international problem. Globalisation has taken a foothold not only in the economy but also in agriculture. This globalisation in agriculture is now not only an international problem, but also a national problem. That is why I am saying this because in Austria too, more and more small-structured farms – not to mention farms that are still cared for by the family – are increasingly difficult to survive, and accordingly also come under the wheels. As internationally, the motto is: The big ones destroy the little ones!, for example, by destroying animal factories – in the course of structural change, animal factories, as we hear again and again, also in Austria – continue to disregard biodiversity, environmental and animal protection. [[Call the Greens: Right!]] I'm showing this by means of two examples from my home, from the Southwest Styria. If an animal factory disposes of hundreds of gallons of garbage “irritably” into a stream and then dies 4,000 fish, the different species, then it is simply not to be supported; on the other hand, you have to do something. No one has answered me the following question: How can a pipe that starts at a pit end with a brook on the other side? – It was an “irrdom”! The second event took place 14 days ago: 1 800 pigs are suffocated in an animal factory in the South Styria; it seems that an emergency supply for ventilation has not worked. There's one thing we all have to be really clear about here: In earlier times, when there was only the small-structured agriculture in this country, these two incidents would not have happened. [[Abg. Jewel beater:... Bullshit!]] It is all the more important that we all support this motion for a resolution together and try to support agricultural workers and agriculture not only according to international criteria but also according to national criteria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19034	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution on the International Declaration on the Rights of Small Farmers annexed to the Committee's report 197 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 30.) [[20:05:17]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 516/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Franz Kirchgatterer, colleagues on slavery on the shrimp world market (198 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19089	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19116	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution calls on the Federal Government or calls on it to promote international cooperation against trafficking in human beings, particularly in the field of labour exploitation, to strengthen the protection and rights of victims and to implement and comply with human and labour standards. I would also like to explain to you why we will adopt this motion for a resolution unanimously today. It is about the fact that in the shrimp business there are inconceivable states. One must know that Thailand exports around 500 000 tonnes of shrimp and is thus the world's largest export nation for shrimps. The low price we all pay as consumers for these shrimps in our shops is largely based on slave work in ghost ships. You have heard right: on slave work in ghost ships. Ghostships are ships that do not have a license; this only works because in Thailand corruption is almost unsuspected on the agenda. Slavery must be imagined in such a way that people who have become victims of trafficking in human beings work under inconceivable conditions on these ships. This means that people have to work up to 22 hours a day – 22 hours a day! – that they are continuously at sea for some 18 months, that they are chained to the ships, that they only receive sporadic food and drinks – one knows of reports that on average they are a bowl of rice per day. There are also people who rebel against having to work under such circumstances. But these people must expect death, that is, they are four. These are inconceivable conditions! There are tortures, and of course, because of these conditions there is also suicide on these ghostships again and again. The International Labour Organization ILO assumes that in Thailand about half a million people are enslaved, that some 300,000 people work in the fishing industry, in the fishing industry, and about 90 percent of them are migrants, because these people become the most often victims of trafficking in human beings; they are sold by the traffickers to the ghostships by around €300 to 550. That is why I think it is really very important that we too, on the part of the National Council, decide together on this motion for a resolution, because we simply have to fight against it. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ, the representatives of ÖVP and Greens, as well as Mr Dietrich, Mr Hagen and Mr Riemer.]] If you imagine that this is not a story I have told, but that it happens every day in Thailand, then we can only act together against it. I think there is a political responsibility – possibly with sanctions or even with this request that we will decide today – but, ladies and gentlemen, we, as consumers, also have an influence on eliminating these unsustainable conditions: simply looking more closely at them, also being annoying again and again, where these shrimps, these shrimps come from, under which conditions they are produced, and of course, by ensuring that there are product labels also in these products. I would like to thank all those who today have approved this request so that we can send out a strong sign from the Austrian Parliament to the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19174	The next speaker was Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19205	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated viewers on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! My colleague has now described very clearly what poor people are going through on the slave ships in the Asian waters. I do not want to repeat this again now, because it is really ghastly. Above all, it is tragic that this is a report which one would think we left behind 100 years ago; unfortunately, these are still facts. Furthermore, this report is not an individual case, but it is unfortunately one of many about incredible conditions around the globe. At the end of May, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has a shocking report on forced labour and sexual exploitation in the 21st century. ==References== The inventory shows that 21 million people worldwide are doing forced labour, of which 5.5 million are children. 2.4 million people will be victims of trafficking in human beings. - That's a terrifying finding. Trafficking in human beings is one of the worst crimes of today, it is the modern form of slavery. Women are forced to prostitution, men and women are exploited under worst conditions, and children are needed to beg. Forced prostitution, illegal organ trafficking and forced labour are also included. Trafficking in human beings is always aimed at the systematic exploitation of people and is unfortunately a highly profitable business area for the perpetrators. Currently, according to ILO report, a profit of 150 billion dollars is generated from business with the true man, only 99 billion of which are generated by forced prostitution. We Europeans too are not exactly the glorious pioneers when we would like to see ourselves, homework is also enough for us to do. Austria is therefore deeply involved in the fight against these crimes. The Austrian approach to combating trafficking in human beings includes national coordination, prevention, victim protection, law enforcement and international cooperation. Austria has already launched the Task Force on trafficking in human beings in 2004 to coordinate and intensify Austrian measures against trafficking in human beings. At international level, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Austrian Development Cooperation are making an important contribution to combating trafficking in human beings in the country of origin, because the global networking has given and increased the international dimension of trafficking in human beings. If everyone works for himself within national borders, then we will never be able to effectively combat trafficking in human beings, so there is a need for close international cooperation, and there is also thanks to God the necessary mechanisms. With our unanimous decision in the Human Rights Committee, we would like to call on the Federal Government to step up international cooperation against trafficking in human beings. I would like to express my sincere thanks to my colleagues for their unanimity in the Committee. In the course of the discussion in the Committee, we have come to realize that we would also like to set a cross-party sign of solidarity towards the girls abducted by the Islamist group of Boko Haram in the north-east of Nigeria. These young women were kidnapped and threatened with slavery by forced marriage. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] At this point, I would like to thank the committee members for being supported by all the parties. Finally, I would like to address a sentence to NEOS – I have seen that no one from NEOS is on the list of speakers, neither to the previous nor to this item on the agenda: [[Call the FPÖ: Because they don't have a speaking time anymore!]] As a human rights spokesperson of the ÖVP, I would really be very pleased if NEOS would also make its contribution to the human rights debate. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19270	The application which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19343	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19364	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear High House! I join my previous speakers: Of course, this is a very good request, and it is really sad what is happening on the world seas. It is a good request, but I think it cannot stay with Austria; it is nice that we here in the House will decide this motion together and unanimously, but we must carry it out into the world. The international community is in demand, and we must ensure that something is done internationally. If little Austria does something, it is a beautiful symbol, but unfortunately the unscrupulous slave dealers will not be able to stop on the world's seas, in Thailand and in all parts of this world, where they still exist. But we also need to think about it. We should not incite these unscrupulous slave dealers by acquiring such products. But I can and also do not want to point to anyone with my finger, because likely few are able to recognize such shrimps, such – under quotations – “evil” shrimps that are produced under slavery. So it's up to us. It is our responsibility as the representative of the Republic to ensure a label that makes it more visible to Austrian consumers so that they can see that these products are probably not products – I just say this – of slave-free production and can make a free decision. But we also need to raise awareness: back to regional and seasonal products! We need to raise awareness of the fact that sometimes one also buys human suffering if you only look at the lowest price when shopping – it's not always cool. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, however, I would like to give you something else: The poorest in our society – and these are also more than 200,000 children in Austria and especially children's families, families with three or more children – can usually afford nothing else. I don't think that's the biggest shrimp consumer in our country, but these are exactly those who have to look at the price and just buy the cheapest. You have no other chance. That is, here we have to catch up, we have to support the poorest of our society. [[Abg. Oberhauser: That's not real now, is it?- Oh, my God!]] - No, that's real! – No, not shrimps for everyone! Get rid of the taxes! so that we can ensure that these people can afford high-quality, high-quality, good products from Austrian production, which have not been produced under inhumane conditions. [[Abg. Oberhauser: with shrimps! What's going on now? Shrimps for everyone?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Oberhauser.]] – Well, you don’t have to eat shrimp all year round. I said anyway, these are probably not the shrimp users, but you just have to create a consciousness... – Yes, even for the shrimps! Thank you very much. [[Call:For the shrimps]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19437	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19468	Ladies and gentlemen, of course this joint request concerning slavery in the shrimp market is an important message and an important opportunity to discuss the absolutely compelling and necessary steps towards the implementation of environmental and social standards in global trade, which is the underlying and underlying challenge of a concrete example. It is not in the narrowest sense about shrimp production – it is also completely unecological, using high levels of antibiotics, which I would like to say once again. This is mainly fishmeal. This is produced monopoly-like. And it was explained in any case, under what conditions, under which one actually finds himself in the 18th century. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I would also like to remind you that it was and were Austrian cultural creators who have shown rejections in the international globalized economy. I would like to remind you of one thing, Michael Glavogger. In “Workingman’s Death”, one of the central documentary films, he reported on the incredible, inhuman conditions in the field of the working world in the global context, presented them, lived for this aspect, and really made them a topic, he and others. Unfortunately, he died and therefore also thanks to him in this context. Through these documentary films, public awareness has been heightened. This is an example we're showing here, but it's generally about really bringing working conditions in international trade to a level to prevent dumping, dumping on the back of women, on the back of children and ultimately also at the expense of food quality. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this initiative by the Committee on Human Rights. We need more fair trade instead of, as it were, dumping on world markets. And we should be more united in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19517	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19538	Mr President. High house! Let me also briefly comment on the motion for a resolution on slavery on the shrimp world market. I would like to stress that trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious violations of human rights and human dignity and is one of the worst crimes worldwide. It is always shocking to see what abominable things people are able to do to their like. Unfortunately, trafficking in human beings is becoming one of the most profitable forms of organized crime. Austria is particularly affected by its situation in the centre of Europe as a transit and destination country of trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation as well as slavery-like conditions in domestic and child trafficking are also a European phenomenon. Global and international cooperation is of particular importance in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the International Organisation for Migration, the Council of Europe and not least the European Union make important contributions. Since trafficking in human beings can only be combated at global and international level, Austria is the Contracting State of all relevant international law. instruments and is sustainable in favour of a relevant international legal framework against trafficking in human beings and any form of modern slavery. An important part of the Austrian measures is aimed at helping to improve the situation in the countries of origin. In this context, I would particularly like to point out the work of the ADA in the area of Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, the global restriction of trafficking in human beings must be of particular concern to us. For this reason, Austria has recently adopted the Additional Protocol to the ILO Convention on Forced Labour aimed at strengthening the international legal framework for the prevention of forced labour. In the sense of the Austrian position, I therefore strongly support the motion for a resolution and look forward to further development within the framework of the international process. I am convinced that this will also enable us to make an active contribution to the fight against trafficking in human beings and all forms of modern slavery. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19589	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19611	Mr President. Minister! High house! The trade in human beings, and we have heard this from the Minister of Human Rights just before, constitutes a serious violation of human rights and human dignity. Trade in human beings should be fought primarily at international level. Therefore, international cooperation against trafficking in human beings must also be extended, especially in the course of global operations with shrimps. It is precisely this business that is systematically based on slavery, and according to eyewitness reports – and we have heard from all our colleagues earlier – unimaginable conditions on the slave ships. “I believed I had to die. They kept me chained, they didn't take care of me or give me food. They sold us like animals, but we're not animals. We are human beings." So far a quote from a slave, published by the British “Guardian”, who in a six-month search followed the trail of this inconceivable world trade. Some 500 000 tonnes of breeding shrimp are exported annually, with the world's largest exporters being Thailand and China. For this business, slaves are bought by € 310, whose working day covers more than 20 hours and which are even forced to take drugs to increase performance. In addition, torture goes down to murders. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the question here is: What can we do about it? What can every individual citizen, every single citizen, do about it? I am of the opinion that we can all make a small contribution by raising our awareness of regional and seasonal products. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19650	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19671	Mr President. High house! The last item on the agenda today is “Slavery on the shrimp world market”. When my colleagues read this and referred to it and said: You're talking to the shrimps! I said: No, I'm not talking to the shrimps, I'm talking about slavery and trafficking in human beings. The debate has already shown that trafficking in human beings is happening worldwide in an eerie variety and does not stop in front of our state of Austria. This report on slavery on ships, where people are sold like goods, shows labour exploitation. But it is not only about labour exploitation, but also about prostitution and trafficking in human beings for organ donations. It's about trafficking in human beings in terms of the business being done with it. No matter what expression it takes, everything is cruel, disgusting and repugnant. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am therefore very glad that the Human Rights Committee has not only decided on this one request, but has also given its opinion on other forms of trafficking in human beings, which have been enslaved, and that there is a motion for a resolution concerning Boko Haram, which my colleague Elisabeth Pfurtscheller has already proposed, that we should not overlook the fact that hundreds of girls are kidnapped in Nigeria and that the kidnapper tells us that they are enslaved, that they are used for prostitution and that they are used as a commodity. The West and Austria are not allowed to vote for this! [[General condolences.]] That is why I am grateful for this common expression of consensus that we are loathing it. But it is not only Nigeria, it is not only Thailand, it is not only the prostitution that the Minister has addressed, which is also taking place in our country with trafficking in human beings, but it is also what is happening to girls in India. Another motion for a resolution will be tabled. We support him. Slavery and inhumane behaviour towards women and violence and prostitution or rape in India are not on the agenda. We must condemn this and show that it does not fit the dignity of man, no matter what culture. Man is human!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19724	Mr Riemer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19745	High house! It's basically said everything, and I say it again: Even if all the people in the committee are happy because they adopt so harmoniously requests, it will most likely be so that the world will continue to turn. And hypocritically, at the next buffet, we will take the best shrimps, whatever is offered there, and we will most likely do what we do not know exactly the same, of which the major international corporations also live. I would like to add a little critical substance, a grain of salt, because we have heard today, these animals, the fish are only caught to feed our good shrimps. Then this food group writes, they don't want to defend themselves, they know that the raw material is a topic, but they just don't have an insight. And you know that tens of thousands of ships are on the way on international waters. Indeed, they are the evil ones. We're just eating the shrimps. The next thing we've heard is the story. It's not just about slavery. Who wants that? We must say, however, that there are cultures where slavery is normal, if we do not want it, where children are spoiled and sold, because it is normal. How do we deal with this? - That's my central question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How do we deal with Asia, yes, the whole world, but not Spain, where the vegetables are produced in monocultures, where the agricultural workers are nothing but modern slaves, it's just another expression? They are not released or thrown out, but these are slaves, for which there is a UN Convention on Law. I think it's great that we're doing something against Boko Haram today. That's a good story, but that won't help. We will also bring in hundreds of applications concerning India, and the world will not recover from it. What can we do centrally and essentially? Perhaps another treat – I don't want to stop you, we have something important to do tonight – I want to read something about how CP Foods commends its products that we don't eat, but maybe other Western Europeans: “Most of our production plants are biologically safe. All our feed is free of pathogens, and the parents are also carefully examined. We refrain from the use of antibiotics and synthetic hormones. Through probiotics, we naturally receive the health of the animals in our farms. Vertical production from feed to packaging. This is, of course, reflected in the high quality of our shrimps.” Something serious – the colleague Fekter has already done it –: I would like to make a motion for a resolution. This is about the situation of girls in India. Perhaps some still have in mind the picture of these girls in India who hung up somewhere staring out of the gaskets. [[Quoted print version removed]] And perhaps we will also make a joint request against slavery, child trafficking and organ trafficking, because it will also make a lot of money in the West, which we do not know. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19832	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19918	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution on slavery on the shrimp world market annexed to the Committee's report 198 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 31.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Pfurtscheller, Kirchgatterer, Riemer, Mag. Korun, Dr. Scherak and Hagen concerning modern forms of slavery in the 21st century. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 32.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Riemer, Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Pfurtscheller, Kirchgatterer, Mag. Korun, Hagen and Dr. Scherak on intensifying international cooperation against sexual violence against women in India. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 33.) The agenda is exhausted. [[20:36:46]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-07-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19993	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 565/A(E) to 560/A(E) have been submitted. Questions 1898/J to 1967/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.37 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
