ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8557	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I will open the session and ask you to go to your places. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 7. Meeting and the official minutes of the 8th meeting. Meeting of 17 March 1990 In December 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Heinzl, Amon, Ing. Hackl and Ing. Lugar. I announce that this session will be transferred live to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length, or almost in full length, I must say correctly. [[09:06:02]] Current hour President Mag. Barbara Prammer: We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Perspectives of Family Promotion in Austria” First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8616	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Family policy is social policy. She's a woman's policy. She's a man's policy. But above all, she is a child's policy. That is why the focus of all our efforts and political considerations must be on the well-being of our children. Children are the building blocks of our future. They will later be responsible for our prosperity, our economy and our jobs, and hence also for pensions. They will once be linkages between future generations and thus secure peace in our country. The question therefore arises: What do our children need? – Children need families. Families are the core of our society and do much for the functioning of our state, and the services of the families need appreciation and consideration. Many measures have been launched for this purpose in the past. A lot is still ahead of us. The programme of the Federal Government under the new Minister of Family Sophie Karmasin is indicative of the future of our families. The reorganisation and increase of the family allowance and the reform of the childcare allowance will give our families support and confidence. Children have the right to stable family conditions. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stronach.]] Children need care, education and training facilities. The first years in a child's life are particularly important; they are often crucial to a whole human life. Loving dealing with trusted persons is the basis on which a young person can develop well. The compatibility between family and profession is a necessity and the desire of more and more parents. The free kindergarten year is a great achievement. Our kindergartens are well developed, and with the extension offensive of the childcare facilities of our family minister, much will be implemented in the next few years. But also those parents who choose to stay a little longer with the children are fully appreciated. These benefits must also be recognised and honoured. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stronach.]] The right of children to childhood must be safeguarded in addition to the right to education and training in families, care facilities and schools. In addition to the extended quantitative offer, it is necessary to further develop the quality of care. Dialogue with countries, cities and communities will be important in this context in order to ensure a balanced use of property and personnel resources. Children and families need jobs. Families need income to be able to compete with their livelihood. Once young people have completed vocational training, they hope for a suitable job. For future-oriented businesses, jobs are secured and created. At this point, a warm thanks to all entrepreneurs, to all employees and to all farmers who keep their farms fit and thus contribute to the job offer in our country – and not to forget the public enterprises that are essential when it comes to health, safety, education or quality of life. The working world, like the reality of the families, is affected by constant change. Both areas are often strenuous and demanding, but often very easy to deal with and meaningful. A balance between the interests of families and those of the working world will be necessary in order to ultimately keep the people in our country and also the Austrian economy fit. Children have a right to a family-friendly work environment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of SPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] Children need living and sustainable cities and communities. In many of the more than 2,000 Austrian cities and communities, excellent work is done in the interests of our children and our families. Mayors, municipal and municipal councils and many employees take care of the well-being of the population. Communities are small economic and social units, and they are a guarantee that money is used efficiently and in accordance with people's needs. Multiplicity of offers, growing social structures and, above all, sustainable living costs are trademarks of well-run municipalities. Many public and voluntary institutions and initiatives create quality of life in our communities for families, and this dynamic must be supported. That is why children have a right to well-run communities. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Children don't need new debts. The Federal Government has set itself the goal of balance-sheeting the government budget from 2016 onwards. This means that no new debts will be made from 2016 onwards. Major budget planning and iron Budgetary discipline is essential in order to achieve this objective – an important and necessary step towards sustainable and single financial policy. Children have a right to responsible budget planning. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS-LIF.]] It is all the more gratifying that, despite budgetary scarcity, financial resources are taken into account for the benefits and concerns of families, and it is important to thank the Federal Government sincerely for this. You're important to the families. It's a good investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the end. We live in a beautiful country. Much has been achieved in recent years, but we still need to improve a lot. The current government programme gives us the opportunity to do a lot for our children and our families. I am looking forward to the work of the Family Committee, and it is an honor for me to be able to work with Mrs Karmasin. I'm looking for everybody: We work together in this House, we find common ways for the children, for the families, for all citizens expect this from us! - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8731	Mrs Karmasin spoke on a preliminary opinion. I give her the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8752	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! High house! Family is the most important thing in a person's personal development and the most important thing for a country to secure the future. In Austria, there are a million family households with children under 18 years of age, but with falling tendencies. That means that we have fewer and fewer children; only 46 percent of the up to 29-year-olds want children at all. On average, the Austrians wish for two children, but unfortunately only have 1.4 children on average. That means we wish ourselves much more children than we actually get. This is also due to the fact that in Austria only 31 percent see the country as family-friendly. We still have a lot of potential for development when we think of Denmark, because that is already 90 percent. The issue of family life is not satisfactorily solved in our country, and if we do not manage to strengthen, promote and motivate families, the future will be lost. Family brings something to everyone. Families bring something to the economy, without families, without young people we will not bring innovation to the country, the professionals will go out. We will have problems with the pension system, and last but not least, of course, we lack a family-friendly climate, a climate of cohesion, mutual promotion and trust that will ultimately be formed in the family. I see it as my mission to develop Austria more family-friendly and ultimately to ensure that the children we want are born as well. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Mayer and Mr Stronach on his work.]] We need a family movement – in analogy to the women’s movement – which is a family movement where a ruck passes through the country, that we can bring back more attention and appreciation to families. So how do we see family today? – This is a very important point! Modern family policies or family forms are not based on a life model, a collective lifestyle, but on the freedom of choice and the individual design of family. My concern is therefore to show the whole range of family concepts on the one hand and to appreciate them and, of course, to support them politically. That's a big concern to me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of SPÖ, Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] Let us now come to the political programmes to achieve this. We know from many studies that three topics are particularly affecting families: money, time factor and knowledge. Let's stay in the first area, with that of money. The Federal Government has spent €1.5 billion for the next five years in order to invest in families in this important topic, specifically in childcare facilities, family support and the expansion of school afternoon care. [[Abg. Kickl: The taxpayer, not the Federal Government!]] This is a very important point, because in this period, as we know, the economic tights and scars are strongly marked, but the family theme is obviously treated as one of the most important and future-looking. So that means: First, €830 million will be invested in increasing family support over the next five years. I would like to outline once again how the new model is put together. Very important: The school start-up fee remains at 100 €, also the multi-child supplement, which was already under discussion, and very important now, of course, is the increase modality. We increase by 1. July by 4 percent and then, 2016 and 2018, each by 1.9 percent. That is to say, we have on the one hand increased and, at the same time, made the way for a longer-term adjustment of family aid. This is not a guarantee for the next ten years, but it is the first time that family support is regularly adjusted. And I think that this is a very great success when we go through this review. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stronach.]] I know the family allowance has not been increased for 13 years. Of course, it would have been nice to valorize each year and make an even higher increase, but we also know that the structural deficit is to be pursued, also in the sense of families and children, and therefore we must discuss this proposal in depth, I believe. Second major issue: Childcare account. There are five variants here. At the moment, the income-dependent variant is not for discussion, but the four others are relatively rigid. Once you have decided, that can no longer be changed individually. Our goal is to discuss these models from autumn onwards and to present new concepts in order to make the whole system more individual, make it more flexible to use, perhaps with a longer period – school start keyword – and especially, of course, to increase male participation. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stronach.]] Second important point: Time. We've seen, money and time are the biggest barriers to families. This is about the compatibility of work and family. This is a very complex subject. This is not only about childcare facilities, but also about many other issues that we need to look at here. It is about qualified part-time offers for men and women. It is mainly about the men in part-time, in order to finally allow for a fairer distribution of paid and free work in Austria. We know that two thirds of free work is done by women, and it is exactly the other way round when it comes to paid work. This means that we also want to put in place measures here to correct this imbalance and thus strengthen the compatibility of family and work for the benefit of children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For the extension of childcare facilities. 350 million € will be invested there. This is a more than quadruple of the amount of the last five years, i.e. a huge amount of money invested here, with a focus on the zero to three years. We know that we are still below the Barcelona target. Although a nine per cent trend is detectable, we are still only at almost 21 per cent of the care rate in this group. And we will make efforts to increase this percentage, not only in the institutions, but also in the direction of individual models – analogous to the family models that are already individual today. We also need to think in child care of individual and family-oriented – keyword involving day-parents, grandparents, cross-communal concepts. So we have a lot of ideas and approaches here. [[Abg. New builder: taken over!]] The second major point regarding time is family-friendly companies. Only when companies adapt to the families will we create compatibility, and not vice versa: It is not for workers to become more business-friendly. Our approach here is the audit family and profession as a quality mark for family-friendly companies that achieve demonstrably better effects in terms of fluctuations and diseases et cetera in their companies. So also for companies a special plus if they are family friendly, of course also for the families who work in these companies. It is my intention, in the first step, to provide all the ministries with this quality mark and then also to equip all close-to-state companies with the quality mark to bring them in the direction of family kindness. There will be a Council of Ministers in Bälde for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second big point next to the families is youth. Again, it is essentially about money and infrastructure. On the subject of money, of course, family allowances are included, but also the expenses used for school leavers and schoolbooks for young people. In terms of infrastructure, we talk about the top youth ticket, which is very well started right now. It will be evaluated and we will have to discuss with Mr Bures whether it should also be used for students, which, of course, would be my wish. From my point of view, I can say that we will extend it to the participants in the voluntary social year and set an accent here. In principle, this is a very positive concept. Finally, let me say one more thing: I am very pleased about this task and would like the family and youth speakers of all political groups to work with me on these important topics for the future for Austria and to contribute to a more family-friendly Austria free of ideology and appreciation. First dates are already set, and I am looking forward to a good cooperation, which hopefully results in constructive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8850	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8875	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Values Advisors! Today’s theme “Perspectives of Family Promotion in Austria” is an important one, just as the two previous speakers have already stressed. Money, time and knowledge are three good words that one can certainly hold on to, but the perspective of family promotion is not just about the financial side we need to keep in mind. I actually thought you were going to present your new model today, because I actually read it in the paper yesterday. Nevertheless, we will wait for the government template and then discuss it in detail. 830 million € in the current government period for family support while spending 350 million € on the development of childcare facilities, I think it is the right way to create the right conditions for families. Family aid is one of the essential pillars, but it must not remain the only one, because I believe that family benefits must also be seen in the context of benefits to be provided. On average, Austria spends a quarter more money for families in the OECD countries, but we are not always sure whether this money comes to families, because we know from the reports and especially from the statistics you made in the run-up, that it is often very difficult, very difficult, and that it often falls below the poverty line. We must also be careful not to prefer, with tax advantages, families that already have a good income and can benefit from it. A single parent who does not pay taxes has nothing to do with these tax advantages. I would also urge you to think about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The extension of childcare facilities is one of the most important aspects we have, and we must, as you yourself have said, ensure qualified part-time work. I believe that women in particular are forced to stay at home at the moment, or that they may only get a poorly paid part-time job. This is not the direction in which we want to go, but we would like to have the conditions under which families, women and men are free to decide: Do I want to go to work in addition, yes or no? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Karmasin, if you are talking about families, please take Denmark as an example – you have made it very briefly in your speech – where 91 percent of the population think that Denmark is family- and child-friendly. In Austria, on the other hand, only 31 percent of this opinion is as you said earlier. Of course, that's not what we want, but we want a lot, much more of this opinion. We pump a lot of cash into the families, I said that first. In Denmark, Sweden and Norway, there are approaches to see that one can share the karenz, for example, that the incentive is also given to the fathers, where one creates an extra bonus, so that on the one hand the father's participation is increased, on the other hand, but on the other hand, the compatibility of work and family is possible. There is it is – and that is certainly a goal where we want to go – a right to a crib place within seven months of birth. The incentive for father participation and, of course, also for the Papa month will be even closer to my colleague. Mrs Minister, in one I am not one with you: You have said in an interview that you will have another discussion because the quality standards in childcare are not to be kept by the countries. So that's not your opinion at all. We need perfect conditions for kindergartens! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and MEPs from Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] We must try to bring more men into this profession, and above all we must ensure that we have such framework conditions for fellow Members there that ensure that they can invest their best work in the children. And as long as this is not guaranteed, I am not willing to go from quality even in a slightest point. It is therefore also necessary to make this quality framework for childcare facilities. Childcare pays off is a simple bill: If we invest a lot of money in childcare facilities, we can create 35 000 care places within a few years, this creates jobs, and then money returns to the tax pot. This is calculated within five years; there are clear calculations of the Chamber of Workers which prove this to us. I think it is a good step in the right direction – in the sense of the Austrian families. I will also be happy to support this with my faction and hope that the opposition will also work there.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8957	Mrs Schittenhelm is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e8978	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just briefly to my previous speaker, colleague Lueger: From quality to quality, I only say: Together we can increase quality, especially in the family sector! That's what we're standing for! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In one, as I think, not just easy time, where all corners and ends are saved, with the budgetary goal of not having a structural deficit in 2016, work for ministers is a real challenge. So these are not particularly good start conditions, especially for a new minister like our family minister Sophie Karmasin. Nevertheless: For our family minister Sophie Karmasin it was clear from the beginning that right now, in a tense time, the families need more help and more support. It has not only recognized this quickly, but it has also acted in a very short time and has put appropriate measures on the table. She fought for it, it was not so easy in her own series, and it was successful. Mrs Federal Minister Karmasin has already said it: The family allowance is 1st. This year was raised. I'm doing it in short form: School start-up fee remains – 100 € are a lot of money for the families – supplement for multiple-child families, and especially important: The supplement for disabled children not only remains, but will be increased. But our family minister also wants to make the flat-rate child care allowance easier, more flexible and more individual, because it always criticises it again and again. ==References== This is an essential point especially for parents, but also for the competent bodies that need to coordinate it accordingly. In total, over the next five years, ladies and gentlemen, this federal government will invest €1.5 billion – and some more – in addition to family benefits, a huge sum. In addition to increasing family allowances, there is also more money for the afternoon care for the students, including the childcare facilities of the youngest children aged zero to three years. The sums were mentioned. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that many of you have already been here in the House during the last period and also before, that we have always done the best possible for our families in the past, and here in the House we have taken the appropriate measures together. This is also documented in the last family report, in which very extensive reports are made about family-related benefits of the federal government as well as the federal states. Only one thing is clear: In fact, what has happened is hardly taken note of. Much is taken as a matter of course. Allow me, therefore, to mention a few points that have been decided in the sense of the families here in the house: the family allowance mentioned we want to increase, the supplementary allowance, the childcare allowance, free schoolbooks for all students, free school leavers, apprentice free rides, apprenticeship allowances, parental education, family counsellors and the various transfers for children and families – I do not want to do so too much – but above all the family support measures of the individual federal states such as the free kindergarten in Lower Austria. It has already been said: In Lower Austria, € 87 million is currently being distributed to the municipalities for childcare facilities, and 40 new groups are created and financed. For the establishment of a group, a community can at least receive up to €55 000 for the new construction of infrastructure and then €9 000 annually for personnel costs. I am happy to be mayor, because my municipality of Bisamberg will also be involved in these support measures. We've already built it, and we'll continue to do it. But the fact is that – and we keep forgetting this in our demands, it is always too little, and you still want more and more – that Austria is in the forefront of the European comparison with its monetary family benefits and the extensive achievements in the field. Nevertheless, the courage for the child is dying, although for 80 percent of Austrians the family is the most important thing in life. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that mothers and fathers are required to raise children is one of the biggest challenges in the life of many women and men. They often ask themselves: If I have done the right thing for my children, am I doing the right thing for them today?, in terms of education and care. Did I always react correctly? And precisely in these day-to-day challenges, parents, mothers and fathers are to be supported. Our family minister Karmasin has set out for her future work: the consistent continuation of Austrian family policy, as set out in the family programme, justice in family benefits, better reconciliation of work and family, more partnership, protection for children – an essential point! – and above all, Sophie Karmasin wants to work on the foundation of an effective family policy, namely the recognition and appreciation of the family by society, through us. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I wish you every success and happiness for your challenging tasks!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9045	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9066	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I welcome it, of course, if we are discussing and talking about the topic of family and family support in Austria today, and if we ultimately also highlight the developments that have taken place in this area. If it is noted today that there is an increase in family support for the Austrian families, it is already necessary to highlight what has taken place in the last ten years. We have not seen any inflation adjustment of family aid over the last ten years. That is, for ten years, the families in Austria have really lost. And now you're raising them up and presenting them as if this was at last the corresponding inflation compensation for the families – not at all! An example of your actions, which you have already decided, shows that this is not the case: On the one hand, you decide to increase family support, which does not even cover the inflation development of the last ten years, because nothing has happened, on the other hand you go here and increase the motor insurance tax on cars. That means you pay for a car with 90 hp in the future by 29.4 € more. This shows that you are taking away the increase in family aid from the Austrian families. This only to show once the reality of how “great” your decisions are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why you should not give such a cry of jubilation here, because we have many Austrian families who are really in a situation of problem, above all many Austrian single parents who are really threatened with poverty with their children and who often live on the poverty line and do not end up with this increase. They really have their problems every day and don't know how to get over the rounds month after month. So you have to say, if this is a step, then it is an insufficient step. I say that this increase should, of course, take place to a greater extent if one seriously thinks it is to relieve the families. Everything else is not really honest, or one can also call it a mockery. I say: There is more to be done; that should not be enough! Of course, we also have a lot to do in the area of family policy when, for example, child care has been addressed. – Yes, child care is particularly important. We also need to consider how we can expand the childcare facilities, also optimize child care times, especially for mothers and fathers who are traded, who often do not know when they work until 9 p.m., where their children would go if there was no luck with the grandma and the grandpa. It's going to be forgotten. In general, child rearing is appreciated, whether in childcare facilities or at home with parents. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Head.]] I often see – unfortunately God also in this house – that when child rearing takes place with parents at home, this is not appreciated. Then you go here and say, Well, these are the little homes on the stove! It's just not valued. I say: Appreciation of children's education in all areas! It should also be noted that family support is of course to take place in many areas, with financial support on the one hand, but also with the appropriate childcare facilities and their longer opening hours. This also applies in the field of education, which has been addressed, where there are massive deficits and we unfortunately have to experience God that more and more children, if they have the compulsory education degree, are not necessarily able to find a profession with this training. So this is also a failure of the responsible politicians in this country. At the same time, we have a demographic development since 1969, which has declined. The 1969s was the last positive birth of more than 140 000 newborn children in Austria. Back then, 1969! Today, we have only just over 70 000 newborn children per year in Austria. That is, we are missing 70 000 children and more per year. So there is a dramatic demographic development – not only since yesterday, but since 1969 there has been a negative development. And I have been missing a counter-tax of the responsible political actors for decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where we have to go, because we have to consider: How can we make sure that people who usually want a family, of course, but often break the reality of life and then experience that children can no longer afford to be punished in this society if you choose a second, a third, or perhaps even a fourth child – you will be punished! –, start a family? Then they experience that they do not receive the appropriate support. I would also like to say the following because this has not been achieved today: It should not be forgotten that, of course, through the enlargement of the EU, many people are pushing on the Austrian labour market. There are 41 000 children who do not live in Austria but who also receive family allowances. One should consider the country of origin principle. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In these countries 100 € per month is worth a lot, with us these 100 € less worth. It should be considered how Mr Lopatka, as the Secretary of State for Finance, has already suggested, perhaps to change something in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9160	Mrs Mag. Musiol now speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9197	Mrs Karmasin! I can warmly welcome you here in the House – for the first time really to a subject area. But I would also like to say in advance: I want a family policy, which has real reforms, real improvements for the families in our country. I have heard enough of the announcement policy that I have been sitting here in the House – and already before – of ÖVP and SPÖ, the invocation of how important families are, the incitement, which is not everything to do. If I look at the balance sheet of the last legislative period, then there has not been much. There has been a family policy that has not meant all families in the sense that you have spoken about it. There has been a family policy that has supported good and better-earning families. Mrs Lueger, you have also participated as SPÖ, even if you are now quite clear on what your objectives are. And there has been a family policy that has always promised to withdraw, in the end, to feed families with small improvements – even now in the case of family aid. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I believe you, Mrs. Minister, that you have a modern family image, a family image of 21. By the century, as I do, as many colleagues here in the house do – from the SPÖ, from the Greens, from the Neos, even from the ÖVP, but not all colleagues. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm going!]] And you probably know as well as I do that the real opponents of this family policy, the real opponents of a social family policy, a family policy that allows reconciliation of work and family, a family policy that does not mean just the good and better-earnering families, sit in your party or, even if you have declared yourself here several times as an independent minister, sit in the party on whose ticket you sit here on the government bank. They sit in the countries, these are the mayors; there you almost have to say, these are mostly the male mayors. They also know that most areas where reforms are necessary not only require reforms at the federal level, but also need to be exchanged with the countries and communities. In this respect, the last Secretary of State or the responsible Minister of the Family very quickly w.o. ==References== They often did not go into discussions with the countries. Against this background, I also found it strange – it has already been mentioned – that you have already announced in the quality criteria, which are really extremely important for childcare, where it is about opening hours, which framework conditions are not only for the children, but also for the educators, or in which group sizes are worked, so that you can really talk about an educational institution, that you do not want to act too strictly. I would ask you to think again and take a different course. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can really promise you: I'll take you. Your modern family image, I don't want you to fail, because if you fail, then the implementation of reforms also fails, from improvements to a modern, 21st century. For years, the ÖVP has tried to prevent appropriate family image with the "Beiwagerl" FPÖ, which here also always makes a conservative, backward family policy under the title " Wahlfreiheit". [[Abg. Kickl: With freedom do you have a problem, gal?- Oh, my God!]] I want you to implement reforms, I will actively support you in doing so. But I will always put my finger in the wound, if I notice the following – and not only do I notice that, but I notice the families who do the money before all these compatibility issues every day: Can I afford life? Do I find a shelter? How do I deal with the division of family work in the family? –: If I realize that this is only about announcements and not about the fact that you are also really willing to implement a sensible, socially just and modern family policy, I will also regularly stand up here with the experts who regularly do so and critically criticize you for it. But you're gonna get my advance berry. I am pleased when we manage to implement this together in the sense that we have been doing this for years, but it is also part of it that you are not only announcing, but also implementing it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9261	Mr Vetter. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9282	Madam President. Minister! High house! When you enter the term “family” in Wikipedia, you can read three basic social functions: the educational function of the family, the economic function of the family and the political function of the family. The following sentence shall apply to the ‘educational function’: “The family is a social space for growth, development and security and, as such, is crucial for the development of skills and action potential of the next generation.” And when you read under the word “security ” in Wikipedia, you read: "The term "security" describes a state of security and well-being. Security is more than just security, protection and inviolability; Security also symbolizes proximity, warmth, peace and peace.” Family has a peace function. [[Abg. Rädler: Is Wikipedia Your Bible?- Oh, my God!]] – If one client comes to me and says he wants to destroy the other, I always say: We negotiate hard, but if I have an accident at the next corner, I want the other one to help me. And I would also like to do this here in this hall, if one of us has an accident that gives him every first help outside. And this very essential peace function fulfils the family first. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Security in the family also means the unmistakable rejection of violence and mutual respect: Respect for the parents, respect for the parents of the children. Those who learn respect in the family will one day also not find it difficult to respect the democracy and democratic institutions that are there: respect for the legislative, respect for the judicial and also respect for the executive. Where there is no respect but discord, it will soon turn into hatred. André Glucksmann, a French philosopher, wrote the book: ‘Hass. The return of elementary violence". I quote a few sentences from this: “The hatred judges without wanting to understand. The hatred condemns arbitrary. He doesn’t respect anything, he sees himself as an object of a universal conspiracy.” Ladies and gentlemen! From our side, it is not to hate hatred, but to resist it, to defy it when he wears a mask, and to reveal it to his ridiculousness. How did Antigone say so beautifully in the Sophocles piece of the same name? [[Abg. Kickl: Don't hate it!]] – “Don’t hate me, I’m here.” She's telling her brother Kreon. And with this we are again with the family, with the family that it is worth promoting – and I am saying this today – also in the sense of social peace. [[Abg. Riedler: Wikipedia!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9364	Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9385	Madam President, Mrs. Federal Minister! I have to think now, I think, about Mr Vetter's words. It has not really opened up to me what this actually has to do with family promotion, but perhaps I will come to it today or you may be able to explain it to me. [[Abg. Street: A private body afterwards!]] I would like to say in advance that I was very pleased, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you have already asked the family speakers for a conversation. I was with you. I think this is a very good sign and I would also like to make it clear from our side, from the Neos here, that we want to offer a constructive path together in many questions. I would like to repeat something you mentioned, namely that you would welcome it if family policy could take place free of ideology. I think family policy cannot be ideology-free. Why do I say that? – Mrs Schittenhelm has said that you would like to continue this path of Austrian family policy consistently. But I already see a problem here, namely that in my opinion, Austrian family policy has a certain degree of popularity. We have not agreed on objectives where we really want to go with family policy, nor on which way we are going. We say that we want freedom of choice, and in reality we all want to do a little bit of justice. And I really see that as a problem these days. For example, if we look at Sweden and say that the image of a modern family policy is often tried, then we also have to put on the table, which means that there are both fathers and mothers, but a considerable shorter period of time, going away from the labour market and staying at home to care for the children, this happens very partnershipally, with many incentives of which we still have far too few in Austria. You then have a certain time, a kind of family time, which I would also like for Austria, in order to actually reduce working time together, in partnership. I think that would be a beautiful picture, that would be my picture, but this picture is not ideology-free at Weitem. This is already propagating a family image that we need to agree on. I'd be very glad if we could agree on that. I have to say that very clearly. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF, representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Stronach.]] They have also said – as far as I am concerned, a little too little, but I am looking forward to the Council of Ministers’ presentation – what is planned in the area of family support. A little bit we could get the media out of here. These are very welcome measures. We have also criticised the fact that the family aid has not been valorised for ten years. We are particularly pleased about the extension of child care. I see, of course, that even with this extension of childcare, there is a certain type of pressure. And I would like to ask you very cordially to use this also with the countries in order to actually achieve a uniform quality framework. In our opinion, child care is not part of the competence of the countries, but of federal competence. And there must be a uniform framework, uniform quality standards and uniform training standards. [[Congratulations with NEOS-LIF, Team Stronach and Greens, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] We shall make a request in this regard today. And yes, of course: This also includes a legal claim, in our opinion, from the first year of life – a legal claim for parents to have a high-quality care facility for their children from the first year of life as in Germany. The quality is of enormous importance. That is why I join my previous speakers. I believe that the quality of childcare has a very important impact on the practical possibility of reconciliation between family and work. If you have a care key of 1 : 8 in some federal states when it comes to childcare, i.e. children under three years of age, where science and research actually emphasize that a care key of 1 : 4 would be ideal in this age group, then this is not only a scientific discussion, but also an emotional discussion. I think we really need to invest a lot more. One point I would like to address: the legal framework as a whole. I would also like to say quite consciously that we want Neos to bring the fathers on board; that is, to shape the legal framework. It is welcome that the common care has been expanded. We want to continue one step towards a double residence. I believe that this is really important; if you say that a modern family image is called bringing the fathers on board, then you also have to offer them the legal framework. My credo is: For women too, something will only change in the working world when more men get up and say that is now my right as a father to stay at home for a while. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9438	Mrs Kucharovich has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9459	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators here in the house, in front of the TV devices or via live stream! What does it mean to promote families? - We've heard a lot about it today. Some will probably say immediately and quite clearly financial support, such as the family support we increase by the middle of the year, which is quite, very important for children and young people. I would also like to mention the direct payment of these to young people, because it is very important for young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another aspect that has already been liked today is the school start-up fee. This is a particularly important support for single parents, because there is a huge financial burden at the beginning of a school year. And that is why we are quite clear about this support to be able to relieve a bit of relief. But family promotion means much, much more, from my point of view and also from the point of view of SPÖ, but especially from the point of view of people who are confronted with it every day. I have always been able to find that the main demands and wishes of young mothers and fathers lie in the following areas: a paid dad-month. – My colleague, Mr Lueger, and other colleagues, have already referred to him. From our point of view, this is a very, very essential support for and for families. Many young papas, even in my circle of friends, do not have the opportunity to consume a papa month. But why not? Do companies not want motivated young employees equipped with further social skills? What exactly does it mean? – I personally cannot recognize any contention against it. We live in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS-LIF and Greens.]] Let us give fathers this opportunity to also strengthen them for the karenz. Let us stand behind it as a policy and implement the paid dad-month! We from the SPÖ stand behind it and are more than convinced of it. Supporting families also means creating a sufficient offer – and we have already heard this today – at childcare places, especially in the micro-children's area. I have in my environment some mothers and fathers who are not yet fully satisfied with the existing offer, especially in the rural area. Opening hours are also a real problem. With this in mind, it is rarely possible to really pursue a job of which women and men can also live, and the possible consequences are involuntary part-time jobs and under- and unpaid internships, and for this we are not Social Democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we in SPÖ leave it not only with a lip commitment by simply demanding more places, but we take – and this is very positive – hundreds of millions of € in order to enable the countries and communities to expand and thus to seize the young families among the poor. But – I do not want to ignore this aspect – this also involves special promotion in the early age of the child, not only in the cognitive field, but also in the developmental psychological field. What child doesn't want to spend time with old people? Please show me a child who would reject this offer! Family support also means the expansion of all day school forms. The creation of day-to-day schools is an essential step towards meeting the labour reality of many mothers and fathers, but also to provide children with the best starting conditions and to open up fields that shape them and support them in their development. It would be very unfair and, above all, a pity – don't you think? – if only children whose parents own the necessary change would benefit from a comprehensive school. The school without a school bag is simply not supposed to remain a vision any longer, so I am particularly pleased that the government is taking money to make reality. [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: In this policy there will soon be a school without children!]] Young families – and with that I mean any constellation of family, whether in equal or not gender partnerships, whether with child or children or without child or children – need our support, also in the area of housing. I'd like to hold on to that, too. We force young family-friendly apartments that are affordable. There are best-practice models here that we as SPÖ continue to support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All I've said now was just a demolition going out here in a few minutes. And that means family promotion for me and for us as SPÖ. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I also invite you, namely the opposition parties, who criticise very much, especially the FPÖ, but never make concrete proposals, to form, and to provide further support to families in the context of our political opportunities. [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: You have no idea!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] All of us represent young families together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9570	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9592	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the topic of family and family value has already been stressed several times, it is not often enough to clarify: Family is not a run-out model – against some unknowing calls. Each relevant study and survey in Austria shows: The vast majority of Austrians wish for their family as the appropriate form of life, no matter what constellation. But that desire and reality do not always match is also a fact. For example, the family minister has fixed this to the number of children. What's this about? – That is also, but not only, a climate that is not always family-friendly in our country. That is why I am very grateful to our family minister for having written the improvement of family kindness as a major concern for her flags. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do you recognize family kindness? – There are framework conditions in different areas of life that must be fulfilled. A first framework condition is, of course, the financial aspect: Children cost money, sometimes a lot of money, and the appreciation of society is expressed in financial support. Therefore, the increase in family aid is from 1st. July a very good sign, even if, of course, we all agree on this, we would wish for a stronger increase. But the Minister also looks to the future, and the budget has a very high priority. There is also a new classification, so to speak, by adjusting every two years, at least by 2018. The second major area is the area of compatibility between family and profession: There's got to go a little further. However, I would like to make it clear: It must always be reserved for families to decide who does family work or employment in what intensity. The state doesn't have to interfere. However, there must be good conditions, for example in the field of labour law, in order to improve the regulation of part-time work or also with regard to the solution of the care question and the compatibility of care and family, as well as in the context of child care. For this, as has already been said, the Federation will take a lot of money into its hands in the coming years, for example for the care of the under-three-years, for the classical kindergartens, but also for the day-parents. And if my colleague, Mr Lueger, is concerned that the Minister of Agriculture is not doing well with the countries, I say: We have – thank God! – a principle of subsidiarity. In this connection, I should like to refer to the Upper Austria country: We have a new service and salary right for children's garden pedagogues, which sets out a very clear quality framework and from the entry salaries and the salary curve is so interesting that it will also be interesting for men. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also particularly grateful to the Minister for her commitment to the subject of day-parents. This is particularly important in rural areas, because this is a good support and complement to institutional childcare. In the third area I want to cut, it is about family-friendly businesses. Not the families must be economically friendly, but the businesses must be family-friendly. Thanks be to God very many businesses and are on a good path by putting themselves on the “vocational and family ” audit. This area is constantly growing. These include various tailor-made options, such as special working time models or, for example, in-house childcare facilities. – I can say from Upper Austria that there are already a lot of businesses there, thanks to God. Finally, I would like to come to an area which is not so often in the focus and which has not yet been mentioned, but which forms the direct environment of life of the people, namely the community. – My community is currently undergoing a process in this regard within the framework of the audit “family friendly community”, and I find it extremely exciting what comes from those concerned themselves when they can express themselves on what they want, for example when it comes to children’s playgrounds. However, there are also issues about how family-friendly transport routes are, for example, where you can get anywhere with a stroller. – This is from the people themselves, and I believe that to allow this is appreciation on the part of the legislator. For example, I am also thinking of a case from Upper Austria: A man filed a complaint against child noise in his home environment. – As a result, the country's family representative has made it clear in a law: Children's noise is not noise, but future music. And I also expect the legislation here to clarify it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of families has always been and always is of particular concern to us as ÖVP. We see the family as a place where children experience their mark. In this sense, Mrs Minister, I would like to wish you all the best for your work! You can be sure of our support! I would like to close with a statement by Kolping, who said almost 200 years ago: “The first thing that man finds in life, the last thing that he extends out his hand, the most precious thing he has in life is the family.” – Add nothing to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9680	Mrs Kitzmüller is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9701	Thank you, Madam President. Dear woman designed family minister! If we talk about family today, I can only give you our full support to what you mentioned earlier, because it is mostly about requests we have made in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But at the beginning I would like to ask: What do we understand about family? What is family? – Family is a community between father and courage. T and with children. This is family, and it belongs to the best possible protection, support and support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But if I look at what was said during the ÖVP's election at the last election, then I can say, for example, that Members Schittenhelm and Minister Mikl-Leiter have said that they call for the legal anchoring of the annual adjustment of family benefits to inflation. - Great, isn't it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shit helmet.]] Mr Tamandl also said: We demand the legal anchoring of the annual adjustment of family benefits to inflation. – Now I ask: What's left of it? We have an adjustment to inflation by 4 percent this year and then twice by 2 percent each. Is that every year? I don’t wonder if the PISA study goes wrong when “annual” means“ every two years ” to us! But good: You might be able to see it that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So nothing left of it. On the homepage of the family association, whose auditor is Member Tamandl, annual inflation adjustment is also required and it is found that nothing has happened since January 2000. We know that, and we also know that this means a minus of more than 37 percent. With this in mind, an adjustment is not really possible once, then in two years and then in another two years! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In order to increase family allowances: We have been calling for the increase in family support for years. But what happens? It won't be raised! We have a 13. Family allowance, which remains a school start-up allowance. We predicted that when it was abolished and only 100 € left. And who gets that? – You get it for children between 6 and 15 years of age. And what about the other kids? And what about the students with whom family benefits are now deleted at the age of 24? How does that work? We want well-trained children, and then the family allowance is removed and nothing happens in this area! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hope Mrs. designed a family minister that you are really working here, because you have already said in your election campaign or in your first speeches that you want to work for families. We therefore ask you to do so now, in fact! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It also aims to improve the taxation of child care costs. Federal Minister Mitterlehner took part in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal” on 6 June. In November 2012, he said that he wished to extend the agility that the costs for the afternoon and holiday care of ten to 14-year-olds should also be deducted. This was supported by Deputy Chancellor Spindelegger and also by Mrs Fekter. – Now you hear and see nothing more! Nothing happens! Further point – monthly payment of family aid: At a press conference in Upper Austria, Landeshaupt-Responsor Hiesl stated that it cannot be seen that the family aid is not paid monthly, especially since this would result in little additional costs. The debtor's advice also calls for a monthly payout. In our requests we are also for a monthly payout, because the families also have to pay their rents monthly and cannot say: I only pay every two months, that's better! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To sum up, I would like to say: The EIA statements in this respect were election promises that are not met! And love from us – as I do now say once – Vice Chancellor Spindelegger, who said in the election campaign that he is the chancellor for the families, has neither “the chancellor” nor the“ for the families”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we can promise you: If you really want to implement all of these demands, which you said here at the outset, that you will support them – our freedom demands are known to you, although the Members who have spoken before, of course not yet – then you will get our support. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I hope for a good cooperation within the meaning of our families!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9831	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9852	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to deal with the subject a little differently now and I would rather talk about what it is, as I think, really about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I think most young people in Austria have the dream and the desire to have children once and to start their own family. With this in mind, the question arises as to what we can do in this Parliament in order to support it in order to make it possible. – I think it sometimes happens that the whole responsibility of politics is, so to speak, turned on our boy. I remember a few years ago there was a minister who said that the boys should make fewer parties and have more children. Apart from such donations: For example, we boys are uncertain when the right time is: Are you supposed to wait until the training is complete, or do you have children only if you really have a semi-good job and an apartment? At the same time, however, we want to become very young parents and also have time for life. – This decision is really not easy! But I am sure that the reason for these difficulties is not our Saturday evening progress, but that, in the first place, it is simply and simply politics that is often too outdated, which really does not make this decision easy for us. I therefore believe that we should address this issue of the future here in this Parliament, and that is why I brought along a few proposals, of which – thank God! – some have already been mentioned. I mean, first of all, we need to expand childcare in Austria. This is not bad, as has already been mentioned. But especially in the communities, e.g. in Tyrol, Vorarlberg and so on, child care is partly still quite poor, and in the cities this partly does not work well. Some friends of mine have told me that, for example, in Vienna a child must be registered in kindergarten before it is born to have a chance to have a kindergarten. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I mean, we really need to expand! Secondly, I think it is very good that we will now raise the family allowance. However, many people do not know that the family aid has not really been adapted to inflation for 13 years. This means a loss per year for a family of over €500, and of course this is a whole lot of money! That is why it is good that this should be raised now, and my colleague, Mr Musiol and I have tabled a request to ensure that this is properly adapted to inflation. Thirdly, I believe that it is a central point that we are somehow making the future working world a little more family-friendly. I believe that there really is a need for a rethinking of companies so that young people also have more time for family and children and can also afford children and do not have to fall behind with precarious jobs all the time. Fourthly, I think the times have changed too. Almost all boys in Austria believe that men are just as responsible for child rearing as women are. By the way, there were also surveys by you, Mrs Karmasin, for example in your previous job. These are very good surveys! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Karmasin.]] This is the state of affairs, and I believe that as an Austrian here in the Parliament, we should finally have to comply with this new reality somehow, by also expanding the opportunities for men to take care of it or, for example, introducing a voluntary paid dad-month. I am sure that many of us young men would also take advantage of these possibilities! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Fifth, I also think that we have to start slowly respecting and recognizing new forms of family. I also believe that same-sex couples should have the right to have children, and that we should grant them this right too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: I'm sorry!]] [[Abg. Kickl: What about polygamous life models?]] These were just a few points that would really improve the situation for young families in Austria if we put it into practice. Dear Minister Karmasin! I can say to myself and to the Greens too: You have our full support at all the steps that are going in this direction, and I wish you good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9936	Mr Steinbichler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e9957	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators on the gallery as well as at home on the televisions! The family is indisputably the most important cell in the state. In this context, I should also like to refer to the ORF's education assignment. I think you should show much more documentary films and informative films in the early evening than are currently being sent. And at this point I can also apologize to all listeners of yesterday’s “Report”: If an internationally successful Austrian, who has created a total of 120 000 jobs, has paid 100,000 abroad and 20,000 abroad, and many families, many mothers and fathers, is ridiculous, then I believe that this is unworthy of public television. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I offer Mrs Karmasin the full support for future family work, but still have to replicate the family work of the government of recent years. Ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned that for 13 years the family allowance has not been adjusted for inflation. That is, if today a child is 13 years old, the child allowance is worth 31 percent less than at birth. Who is talking about family equality? Who's talking about family policy? We think this is true of the whole economy, because the lack of adjustment does not mean that the regional economy is lacking, lack of regional education, lack of jobs. That's why you need to change and pick up the quickest! A policy of announcement and a shift into years does not help those who already live at the poverty line. What can they buy from it? In this area, urgent action must be taken, measures that are effective immediately so that families can cope with inflation in some way. I think that's the essential thing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In my opinion, the announced quality mark for family-friendly businesses is not so good. I remember the food quality marks, where it is usually only a quality mark, which no longer brings truth and quality. But this is about the appreciation of the many families and the appreciation of educational work. However, we also see the appreciation given to the Government of Education: As part of the hackler scheme, education is estimated to be only 50 percent. We need a much better account. With regard to rural areas: Many fathers, mothers, grandpas and grandmothers have to do car rides because the connection to public transport is not so good so that the children can be at the various clubs, at the Musikverein, at the fire brigade, at the sports clubs, and also at the club evenings and for further training. In rural areas, public transport links need to be significantly improved, so that rural thinning can also be countered. All regret the thinning of rural areas and the escape to urban areas, but this is of course true if no improvement is made in this area. Mrs. Minister mentioned that at present only 1.4 children are born per family, but we would need 2.3 children per family to ensure that the population level remains the same. In this context, it must also be remembered that there are many young people or young parents who simply cannot afford a second, third child. Therefore, the equipment of the families needs to be significantly improved. Frank Stronachhat always said that we all said that expenditure must be saved, debureaucratisation must take place, that social security and trade unions must be merged so that they can be saved and then the money saved can be used for effective measures. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This money is missing! Now are the families, the drivers the milk cows. Especially the families need the cars, and the motor insurance tax has been increased by 41 percent over the last ten years! This is a huge handle in the money pockets of the families, which then lacks the money. And that's exactly what we criticize. Something has to be done. We from the Stronach team say clearly and clearly and confess to this: The only working and sustainable successful future model for this state of Austria is an intact family.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10050	Mr Mag. Loacker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10072	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP is, of course, full of praise for family policy, for which it has been responsible for years. However, some things are ignored. Family policy can be made in three ways: transfers, care and tax. Austria is doing a lot of things in total, but we have a strong focus on the transfers, and doubling with the measures the government has now planned. You're going to be over-proportional there, and this triangle's going to be in a shabby position. We don't think that's all right. You have also forgotten, in particular you, from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, what the Court of Auditors said in 2011 about family benefits. It was noted that 117 different posts provide family benefits in any form that the number of ministries involved in family benefits in any way is far too high. But nothing happened. It is enough – if I can now focus on it – to look at what happens to the families in the tax field and what a family has to do in the context of correspondence with the financial office. There is not only the family allowance, but also the multi-child allowance, in which your short-term State Secretary Remler has not already been recognized, the amount of the allowance for children, the child allowance, the single-earner allowance, the single-age allowance, increased special expenditure from three children, depending on the maintenance amount, exceptional burden on the costs of childcare if it is required due to the professional activity of single-parents. Since 2009 there has been agility of child care costs. There are also tax-free grants from the employer for childcare. In good German: A family needs a tax advisor so that it can take advantage of all these government benefits. But that can't be the result. It's totally non-worldly. They themselves know that the use of many benefits is only half as much as was planned in their introduction, because the whole is far too complicated for families in real life. We are not yet talking about what the countries have built up to do with parallel structures and support. I would ask no one to tell me, especially no one about the ÖVP, that you are pursuing any goals with this regulatory confusion. It's a mess. If you want to achieve something, a logic has to stand behind it, you need a system, something that is comprehensible and predictable to the families, for many years out. Family planning is also not made quickly over the weekend. Their system, the present system does not serve the growth of families, but the growth of Tintenburgen. Another ÖVP family “Glossy Performance”, which you have produced in the era Schüssel, is the Austrian version of the parental age. Here you have, in the good intention – I suppose you – to protect parents, to shoot completely beyond the goal and to achieve the exact opposite. You have punished all those who work full time as parents, and you have committed a bureaucratic monster to the company. Fathers and mothers in their parents are subject to age 4 until the end of the year. The child's birthday is a special protection against termination. What They have thought of giving this protection of termination to those who work part-time, however, those who work full-time, I don't know, and no one can explain it to me. I believe that in general this is where the protection of reasons must be met and the special protection of termination and dismissal is superfluous. As far as the extent of parental leave is concerned, you have made it too easy and too difficult for businesses. There's no limit up there and there's no one down. Farms are hit by the fact that there is a right to a part-time period of six or eight hours per week. And vice versa, someone can buy the cancellation protection by reducing working time from 40 to 38 hours. You just didn't think about how this could work in practice. I think it would be useful or useful to set a corridor for part time from 50 to 80 percent of 40 hours within which the special arrangements are applied – over and below, simply not. What you've produced there is an obstacle to women's attitudes between the ages of 25 and 35, and what you thought to be protection is going back as a shot. That's why you don't understand the companies and the entrepreneurs – I say this very specifically in this direction – and the families, that's what you see on the tax jungle, you don't understand either.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10133	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:29:30]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10154	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: ‘Dual training system, training guarantee – Austria as an example for Europe’ First of all, Mr. Dr. Cap. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10182	Madam President. High house! We have not chosen this issue by chance for the current hour of Europe. This is a more than burning and current problem. In fact, Austria can be used as a model because we have an excellent balance sheet – as well as Germany – and the lowest youth unemployment. On the other hand, there is, of course, a very dramatic situation in Europe with 5.6 million young unemployed and 27 million unemployed. For us Social Democrats, it is basically the same that everyone and every youth and everyone and everyone who has no job is one or one too much. And we want to do everything we can to fight it. This is also a topic in the current European election campaign, which is that there should be another, a better Europe, which all speakers rightly point to at various meetings. Also in many magazines and magazines, individual representatives, various interest groups, speak of another, of a better Europe. The German “Handelsblatt, Deutschland’s Wirtschafts- und Finanzzeitung” writes in his last issue on the cover page: “Europe’s descent” and criticises quite strongly the steps taken by the Commission and what steps are often taken in Brussels, steps that are not helpful and have made sure that the global comparison of industrial development and value-added in the industrial field towards China, towards many other economic regions of the world, is now under way. Many come to Austria and look at our model, our model of society, our political system, which creates a real consensus here, where employers and employees come to a common denominator, so that we can not only maintain and develop social standards, but also achieve economic competitiveness, which is the prerequisite for the creation of value-added funding basis in order to be able to celebrate decisive successes. As the media are now constantly reporting on the commemorative events or also the symposia on the occasion of the outbreak of the First World War, and as we are talking about the First World War, the interwar and the Second World War, I would like to say: It can be seen that, as a result of these events, there has already been the need for such a common Europe. This is an important and also a peaceful perspective, not only in relation to the First and Second World Wars, because there have been these conflicts in Europe for centuries. In economic terms, it has also been shown that this strategy of caputt saving in the interwar period has provoked this mass unemployment, which was the basis for radicalism, whether left or right, but of course it was the basis for the rise of nationalism and the elimination of democracy, for dictatorship and everything related to it. It is important that we know that we need to do everything and counter it so that it does not come back to such a development, the basis of which is always that there is no prospect of unemployment. The mood towards the European Union, which is a critical to negative one, is also linked to the fact that some do not have a life perspective for migration and uprooting. This is where criticism is expressed to the extreme, because identification with the Europe project is not available to the necessary extent. And in order to recover them, it is important to take the necessary steps in the economic field and also in the political field. I think this can only be achieved if there is really a change, an improvement, a change of policy in the Commission, if there is a change of mind in the Commission as to how to deal with certain things. You don't have to regulate everything to death, but you don't have to deregulate everything either. These famous examples from the banana to the light bulb to the toiletwashing, how much water is to be used for the rinsing, are so classic examples of where the average European citizen gets his head and asks: What are they doing? But what I understand very well is that we should consider whether public investment in the Maastricht criteria should be within. What I really understand is that you should think about whether social housing is not stubbed on neoliberal models, so that you can influence the income limit from which you can move into social housing. These are things where, I believe, it is important that there are new majority groups in the European Parliament, that there are new majority in the Commission too, so that there is a change, a rethinking. For that, I think things often have to be called really by name. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's a long list, and this long list is: Everything needs to be done in order to be clearly opposed to a policy of shattering. Everything needs to be done to create employment and growth. Everything needs to be done that the great economic area is able to intervene in another economic system worldwide – the basis of poverty migration is that there is something wrong in the world economic order. Everything needs to be done that we are working together in the field of climate change – only large units such as the European Union can do so. If you think that the individual Member States of the European Union, individual, small and modest, can reach global solutions, then this is pure illusion. That's the positive. It is therefore necessary to fight for action and results to be achieved here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] As Mr Kickl is speaking in the bank series right now: No one wants a hypercentralist European Union where, so to speak, removed bureaucracies decide. [[Abg. Kickl: That's the question where the measure is!]] No one wants that anyway. This is even criticized, you can read in the “Handelsblatt” that this is criticized, and you can read to various social-democratic speakers, columnists. You may also have some misguided ones who have already formulated it. But at least this is a point where, I believe, one has to start: the solution to the challenge of digital society, the fight for social standards in Europe, so that there is no pressure on countries like Austria. Because we are not interested in putting pressure on our high social standards, our life model, our cultural model. That's what we're fighting about. I believe that it is worth having a national basis for this, a national consensus, because in this concert, in this competition within the European Union for Austria as a whole, it is the best way. And this only works if, as everyone says, there is a better European Union, a changed European Union, and it is now to be fought for! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Vavrik.]] This also includes the fight for a strong currency with regard to the euro area. It's not easy to say: Let's go to some euro, South Euro, North Euro, West Euro, East Euro or Moon Euro, or let's go to some schilling, no matter how you define it!, that's too serious for that. If this goes well, hundreds of thousands of jobs are called into question. So, I think you have to act very massively, and all the steps have been taken. Fight against financial speculation: The banks must at last be productive and do something for the real economy. It cannot be that they borrow by 0.25% from the ECB and then speculate with this money. No, this money really needs to be used for the real economy, so that there are jobs and jobs. This is a sum of points in which the issue of youth employment is the focus. A very crucial point. If we were to put ourselves together here for a long time, we would certainly be able to find many similarities, which we could take out, so that we could really act together and strongly in Europe in the context of the European elections, even in the European Parliament. But this requires change, improvement and ultimately requires a change not only in the European Parliament but also in the Commission. And now the first time is the possibility that the President of the Commission also has a new democratic legitimacy. And I think the time has come for a social democracy to be elected President there once so that it can come to this change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Coming to a conclusion: I think the solution is not a return to the village principle, to the city states, to the smallness, to the maximum, up to the edge of the plate, but not a millimeter beyond. That can't be the solution! I do not think it can be the solution – and I would like to share this with the populists of the various shades – to simply build on moods to say: There is a mood that we use! Then we might even have a mood support, but what is then? What's the next day? What if you have to take concrete steps? What if the challenges really come before us? You can't put your finger in your mouth and start thinking. It's too late then! Rather, one must enter into such a discussion with a clear programme, which is also marked by practicality – and not back to the post-coach of 19th or 18th. ==References== [[Abg. Kickl: Like Mr. Friend!]] Even if she's blue, this carriage, she stays a carriage.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10276	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10297	Madam President. Honourable members of the government! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap has already pointed out in a very detailed and very correct way – I can only stress this – that, in European comparison with the European Union, we can point to a far better situation in the field of youth unemployment and unemployment. Nevertheless, our great concern in Austria is also in the coming years, with sufficient economic growth, to ensure that one does not get used to this unemployment, which is also present in Austria. Indeed, the danger of the constant increase in youth unemployment or the high level of youth unemployment and unemployment in Europe is that such an effect will occur. And especially if young people cannot perceive the opportunity to live in the society of work, then the devastating effects – humanly intolerable, but also intolerable to a society and its social cohesion. I do share the view of those who say that when banking institutions are system-relevant, it is the hopes and opportunities of young people in particular. And if all have met and met in crisis meetings – rightly, as I am convinced – to avert what in 1927, 1929, in the 1930s, has collapsed at the time to help banks to stabilise a similar collapse of financial cycle in Europe in 2008 and in the wake of industry and the labour market, and thus, if it has succeeded in supporting it with protective shields, only partially with bank charges and payments. their right financial instruments, but with high tax resources in Europe – then it is our task to make the same effort in the next few years – not instead of stable financial cycles, but with the same commitment, because for good reason – to ensure that unemployment in Europe goes down and young people in particular, because they are particularly affected by them, get a chance. Well, how are you? . We have made a number of proposals here, which, of course, are not enough now to say: We would have a catalogue, and if we were to implement it from point one to point ten, there would suddenly be no unemployment in Europe, but it is a wealth of measures that are linked to stable finances in order to have scope for investment at all. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] However, these are also measures such as the financial transaction tax which in this House – I am very proud of that – is always referred to in the European discussions – is borne by all parties as a contribution to the question: Where, then, will we obtain financial instruments to provide us with training guarantees or to be able to install dual training? How are we going to finance what we all say is so urgent? Where do we also think of what financing options exist to be able to provide this many right, demanded and so urgently necessary for a society? And I also see here in the statements that our German neighbours' government declarations have the opportunity, together in the next few months, not only to update, but also to enforce, this financial transaction tax issue in all its clarity. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] The same applies, of course, to tax fraud – also an important task for Austria. You know that we are not satisfied with the fact that there is a data exchange between foreign accounts and therefore account holders in Europe. This is the one side to the fight against fraud, but we naturally believe that tax fraud continues to go hand in hand with English trusts, which means that in many areas of Europe, in the fight against tax fraud, data exchange is only a facet of the urgently needed measures. If, at the expert level, the tax fraud in Europe is estimated at € 1 trillion annually, we can see what volume it is about to bring into motion at European level to finance the appropriate and urgently necessary common measures at the right level. So there is not only the call from Austria: Do it as we do with dual training, and make a guarantee of training!, but there is certainly also a wealth of support and instruments through which, we believe, the situation of financing for the countries concerned can be improved. There are, of course, two groups of countries with high youth unemployment: very rich countries such as Sweden – and countries that have almost no budget room, such as some countries in southern Europe. So youth unemployment is not only a phenomenon of those countries that do not know how to take up the next government bonds at low interest rates, but youth unemployment has become a socio-political phenomenon also in so-called rich countries of the European Community, because it has been a very serious problem for those who are newly entering the labour market, of which one cannot live – a development, given that we also have a major task, when it comes to preventing wage dumping and reducing protection provisions for workers in this common Europe. The aim is not to combat youth unemployment by driving jobs from which one cannot live, but, of course, the goal is to tackle youth unemployment in a sustainable way. And this also includes a number of social measures that we know through the social partners of our country, who also know other countries, but which are going through in many areas. – So the fight against precarious working conditions is an important issue when we talk about fairness and the opportunities of young people in the world of work. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. May. Honey.]] Just as we in Austria have the tradition that companies are very proud to train apprentices – unfortunately not all, but many, and in the west of Austria even more so than in the east of Austria, as you can see when you visit companies that are very proud of their position as apprentices – this is not a matter of course in most countries of the European Union. There is a special ambition for this in the Netherlands, for example, and it is also a special honor for the firms which they prefer to hire and retain older workers. This is something we hope for – with and without a bonus malus system, because it is not only a question of the system, but also of the attitude – that we can achieve this in Austria, too, that this attitude, as it is right with regard to apprentices, which we are also very proud of, also applies to older workers. I am therefore convinced that the measures we are planning in Austria, both in the area of younger and older workers in the next five years, should be included in an active policy of Austria in Europe, in an active policy not to look away from unemployment in other countries, but to look at our solutions where we represent them politically together – and I see them across the borders of the parties – make us strong so that people in Europe are asked: What is Austria's commitment to? Austria is at the forefront of the fight against unemployment and youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10373	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. We are going into the debate at this current European hour. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants according to § 74b para. 2 in conjunction with § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10403	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler, for the remarks. I believe they make it clear that Austria has become an essential example in the fight against youth unemployment in this European crisis, in the sustainable fight against youth unemployment. And that's not about it, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria we have a long tradition, namely the tradition that politics and social partners work together on solutions, solutions that are good for workers, for children and young people who are good for the economy and, last but not least, for social peace in our country. And this includes a high level of employment, including well-trained young people, including good opportunities for education and training, but also the support of people who have lost their jobs. Austria has therefore taken a special path in the economic and financial crisis from the very beginning. The Social Democratic Government has already introduced the Youth Guarantee in 2008 because under Blue-Black, youth unemployment had increased by up to 11 percent even in good economic conditions. And in spite of the crisis, we have not stopped this guarantee – for example, in order to get money quickly by perhaps being broken down here; we have not done so – but we have continued the Youth Guarantee and have continued to invest in the future of our youth. We have thus effectively prevented the mass increase in youth unemployment, which unfortunately exists in many European countries. The Social Democrats have also represented this policy externally: through our representatives in Parliament, through our ministers, especially the Minister of Social Affairs, Hundstorfer, and at the level of the Heads of State and Government by our Federal Chancellor. And German Chancellor Faymann, like the financial transaction tax, was one of the few who called for investment at the European level despite crisis, namely investment in growth and employment. Federal Chancellor Faymann has called for vehement funding to combat the rapidly rising youth unemployment and has also recruited vehemently with his colleagues for the European Youth Guarantee and also for the dual training system. With great success, as we have heard – there are many representatives of the other states coming to us to look at our models. Sweden has already announced the adoption of our dual training model, and there is intensive contact with Spain, Greece and Portugal to offer expertise there too. Many foreign newspapers, including the “FAZ”, “The Guardian”, “Die Zeit”, describe Austria as a model. It is also interesting because on educational questions we always look at Finland, that the largest Finnish daily, “Helsingin Sanomat”, writes about the miracle of Austria in connection with youth unemployment. And amazing, I found in the Swedish newspaper “Kristianstadsbladed”, the edition of the 25th century. January this year, read. It shall be reported by the Annual European Forum, which shall be entitled: The EU election and Austria. And for the reason of this title: There are many similarities between Austria and Sweden, but a serious difference, and that is the low youth unemployment. As has been said, Austria has become a model and a source of ideas in employment policy in Europe. We will be determined to continue this course. We will also address this in the upcoming elections. We will continue to fight for an active employment policy, for strong social partners and for a policy that must also be socially fair, especially for our children and for young people, especially in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10445	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10467	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Sozialminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe's policy and internal policy are now no longer separate. We notice: Decisions taken at European level have a direct impact here on us, and decisions taken in the individual national states naturally have a direct impact, especially within the euro area, on all 18 countries which are now represented in this euro area. It is therefore good that we here in Parliament are increasingly dealing with European issues, that we have different formats, whether in the committees or in the current hour of Europe, as we are now holding them, where we are dealing with these issues, because it is also important for the spectators to see how the individual parties deal with these issues. And this will be evident in the next few months when it comes to elections. We did on the 25th. In May the elections to the European Parliament were held, and this was also a direction decision. Here are the political groups that want a better Europe, and there are fact groups there that are actually talking about this project by many statements in Bausch and Arche. What do I mean by that? – I think that the party founder Frank Stronach will also take the floor, and he is in a boat with the liberals, when it comes to the large European project, the euro, which has a direct impact on the workplace situation with us, when his wish is that, as Stronach has formulated, every country besides its own government – yes, we want to do so – and our own laws – we also want to have its own currency 28 times in Europe. – We don’t want that anymore, this step back! That's why we're very different! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] And that's also the big difference to the liberals. Klubobmann Strache has been asked: Are you in favour of withdrawal from the euro? – In the election campaign, when he was still dreaming of becoming chancellors, he meant: I would consider this as a chancellor very well – he has remained in the conjunctive – and I would find partners for a currency change within the eurozone. – And then he strongly criticized and meant the German chancellor – at the time Berlusconi was still in office and dignity – that Berlusconi was right in his criticism that Angela Merkel was a dictator who put the EU under her sparse dictatorship. [[Abg. Strache: So “dictator” I certainly didn’t say!]] I say thank God we have Angela Merkel and the Germans in the European Union who represent this stability course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if we don't have these German locomotives in the European Union, I wouldn't like to be interested in the French and others, but I'm glad that there is this stable factor in Europe – with Angela Merkel, with Schäuble and the other members of the German Federal Government. [[Abg. Blow: Why? Faymann does support the Hollande course!]] And then Klubobmann Strache also meant – even after the election – that the European Union behaved like a globally organized band of robbers. – That is what I mean: in Bausch and Arch of this project, we are shattering. We don't. We say that there are structural defects in the European Union. But that doesn't mean we say that's a band of robbers, but we say that's a good project that we need to improve together. We will also have this direction decision in May. And this is crucial for Austria as an export-oriented small economy for the labour market. Why? – 6 of 10 €, which are earned in Austria, earns our enterprises with the services of the workers through exports. And to this day, 70 percent of our exports go to the euro area. [[Abg. That's not an export!]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: This is not an export! This is an internal market if you want a single economic area!]] And everyone who goes into business will hear from the representatives of these companies how important the euro is to them. Let me give you an example: I was in Carinthia not too long ago in an undertaking in the field of paper industry. I was clearly told by this company as long as the Italians still had their currency, the location was massively at risk. They told me that the biggest economic support for them was the common currency, because now they have security and stability, where over 80 percent of their exports go to the euro area and Italy. Yes, we are for open borders, but of course we also see the problems with open borders, last Friday we saw that. The European Union needs to consider something if these open borders are open to violent professional demonstrators – I say – too. We also have to think about where we are then also incorporating obstacles, closing borders if it is necessary – but not on the labour market. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] We need this European Union with a single currency, with the euro.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10569	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10590	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! It is already very strange and remarkable that in the four contributions made so far, the words “dual training system” and “training guarantee” – the title to this current European hour – do not even occur. There is talk of unemployment – also courageous, in a period when unemployment has reached the highest historical point of speaking about what we want to do. It was also revealing what Mr Cap said, namely that he did not want the high standards that exist in Austria to be abolished, eroded or otherwise abolished in some form. I translate this for the ordinary citizen; that means: They're against social tourism that's supposed to break in. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nothing else seems to be happening – especially in view of various current cases. Then you have said that you want to deal with this problem now and really. – What is that evidence for the previous government, for the last legislative periods? – Did nothing happen earlier or only unreal? [[Call the ÖVP:Acceptance!]] Now make your self-reflection out of the second row, you may have another higher point from which you have the overview and come to realize: Actually, nothing has happened so far!Unknown term type: "%s".? If you are here as the first speaker of social democracy and say that now and really something has to happen, what was there before? – A catastrophic self-certification, but it’s right; we share your view of things. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Nor did Mr Lopatka use his speech to comment on this heading in some form, but it was now a statement on questions of euro policy. This is always the case with you: They say whether the Merkel is, or anything else, anything related to the EU and these things is under a general ban on thinking and opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: No! You didn't listen to me!]] You're always saying, "alternatively." The euro is alternative, one cannot even think about whether there is another thing – but our Federal Party is doing so. Our Federal Party Observer Strache has no swindlers like you, when it comes to Brussels, when it comes to the bureaucracy there, and what your superior whisperers – perhaps also German Chancellor Merkel – are whispering to you. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Are you looking for an exit from the euro?]] – I am not currently in favour of the withdrawal from the euro, at present not. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: No?]] [[Deputies Wöginger and Dr. Lopatka: When?]] – Yes, if this goes down even further, that is quite clear, Mr Lopatka! They will have recorded one thing: that the euro is not all around, and that the perception of the Austrians, that this euro must always be written in front with a “T”, namely “Teuro”, is likely to apply. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] It will probably be possible to think about whether the added value, whether the wealth, or not, was even better in schilling, but it will still be possible to make comparisons! Or is it worth the scams you've ordered that you can't put them off at all? [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Shaves!]] Or are you already focusing on a well-dominated Europe post? [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: As the Schelm thinks, he speaks!]] It almost happens to me, these are the main points at ÖVP and SPÖ, namely that you believe: If we serve, there will be some kind of Vice-President's office somewhere in some bank or other. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call:This is now the revelation]] How much you take seriously when it comes to the European Union shows: There has recently been an EU-wide exchange on the future of justice policy. That's what you think, maybe it's something essential. Who of the Austrian parliamentary parties has participated? – Except for the liberal representative, no one. Now it's about what you've generally been silent about: They're talking about the dual training system and the training guarantee – it's always been good. What you left out at once: They want to have an education compulsory up to 18 years. They do not trust the Austrian young people to take their skills into their own hands at the age of 15. With the right to vote, it is quite different – thank God, young people with 16 – but when it comes to training, they are unmistakable. In criminal law, it is also necessary to touch young people gently, in the absence of their maturity, but no, the government wants training, even with penalties, if it is not complied with. So we have a somewhat different relationship to obligations – and to do so with these penalties; when it comes to rights, when it comes to opportunities, and one has to work with duty and punishment. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Who should pay this penalty if someone does not teach or train? – The parents who are not sitting on the school bench themselves, the youth with his 16 years of age? And if he can't raise the money, will he have a replacement sentence somewhere in the administration? - No! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We are concerned that the education system and the education system – so that at least once it occurs – are getting better in the folk school. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is not a question of teachers in Austria having to re-acquire education in basic knowledge of reading, calculating and writing; that is the real scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10784	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10807	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Yes, it's a bit amazing that you make a current European hour of dual training, but then you don't talk about dual training. – I can imagine why, ladies and gentlemen: The apprentice Pope Blum, which you installed under the black and blue government, expressed his concern – Mr. Federal Chancellor, I brought you a gift –: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] “The falling image of teaching in Austria is homemade,” he says. Just a few numbers that you can then read to all of you: “The decline in apprenticeships is stronger than the demographics,” “13,220 fewer in-house apprentices in Austria since 2008”, the previous government, “6,051 fewer in-house first-year apprentices compared with 2008”, “5,000 fewer training firms since 2008”, 20 percent of apprentices apply in the final examination, “24% give up the teaching before the end”. [[The speaker presented a document to Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I think we should deal with this, not just with the situation, as you have done from the government bank and, unfortunately, also with the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have – which I am delighted to say – stretched out the situation in Vorarlberg. Yes, the companies with us are very committed. I have visited many in the last half of the year: from large industrial companies – Liebherr, Doublemayr – to micro and micro-enterprises, which also try to train apprentices. The problem is – unisono, and there we are in the school system –: The companies are getting less and less skilled graduates of our school system. This is the main problem, ladies and gentlemen. A third of the 15-year-olds – after nine years of schooling – are unable to read meaningfully. How do we train these apprentices? In the meantime, the situation is so dramatic that the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce suspends €1,000 for those companies who are willing to submit these basic qualifications to their apprentices. You must learn to read, write and calculate properly at 15 years of age in the establishments. There's an alarm, please. That is where we should act, and we should not speak beautifully of the situation as it happened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we really want to move forward, we must reform the school system in particular. However, we must also, of course, also look at apprenticeship training, that the apprentices have appropriate training places and that these training places are also controlled. Your apprentice father Egon Blum has pointed out that we have taken a step back because this is precisely the control of training. The dramatic thing about the situation is that the trend is getting worse. The Chamber of Commerce says that we will have 5 to 6 percent fewer apprentices per year, and 5 to 6 percent fewer training firms. I would have liked to hear something about how you would like to deal with what initiatives you want to take in order to stop this trend today, because at the same time we are increasingly in a shortage of skilled workers in Austria. Seven out of ten companies complain that they do not receive the relevant skilled workers. Austrian companies are now chartering aircraft, flying to Spain, to Greece, to Portugal to get workers from there. By the way, I said: We are strengthening the problem in these countries and we are not taking the consistent measures that we should take in these countries. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The green demands, ladies and gentlemen, are clear: The first is the basic school reform, from kindergarten to the common school of the 10th century. up to 14-year-olds. We need a guarantee of training; the obligation to do so makes little use of it, we have already talked about it. You have to do something that reaches over-company training centres. If the dual training system is to remain that success model that it was and that was truly a long time present, then action must now be taken. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] We are currently on our way in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10898	Next, Mr Stronach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e10919	Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators here and at home! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Chancellor! I would like to make a brief clarification: Mr. Lopatka said I'm in the boat, in a strange boat. – I am not in a foreign boat, I have my own boat, thank you. [[Sociability and applause with the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: More than one!]] In my constituencies I have said very often that I am not seeking office, not title, and will be in Parliament only for a short time. In the campaign itself, I have always tried never to be personal or to make people bad. Should this have happened anyway, I'd like to apologize here. I've always wanted to be with the thing, and I may not have done that much, I have to admit. But you also have to understand, I'm now over 60 years old in Canada and with my German, it's a bit happy. In the Styrian I am, I think, pretty good, but that most do not understand me, but it is as it is. [[Rejoicing]] I'm very proud of being Austrian. Austria has given me the opportunity to learn a good profession. And I'm also proud that I'm Canadian. Canada has given me the opportunity to unfold economically. I am very loyal to these two countries, I believe. I'll be a little less in Austria in the near future. I have three grandchildren I'm very proud of. My grandson's 22 years old now, he's with me in the company. I have a granddaughter who's 20, she'll be there in a few months, and I've got a younger granddaughter at the age of 13. It's the best thing for me if I can spend time with them. I've neglected this a little over the last few years and I'd like to make up for it. I want to share my life experiences with my grandchildren. I would also like to mention – I am very proud of it – in my last act as Chairman of Magna I have caused the battery technology to be built here in Austria. That's what I've insisted on, and I'm proud of it. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS-LIF.]] These are many jobs and a great, great future, because we are some leaders in electric cars. I would also like to stress that I am proud of our team, proud of the Stronach team, which is represented here in Parliament. It has good values, and I think it can do a lot to make prosperity and economy work better. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] I would like to say briefly: If the economy doesn't work, nothing works, and it's a shame that we're getting more and more away from the real economy towards the financial economy. In the financial sector, only financial papers that no one can eat will be pushed down and sooner or later fail credit will be left. Who's paying for this? – The citizens. We are far from the real economy, but only the real economy can create prosperity. This brings jobs, and that is quite simple: You have to imagine, you have to be able to make products that you can sell. Products consist of raw materials – called the Commodities – which have quite the same price all over the world. Then you need workers who manufacture these products, and you have to motivate the workers. The most important of all is of course: If the state administration is too large, one cannot be competitive. I give you a practical example: One can have a factory, a company, because the workers in the hall can still work so hard if the administration in the offices is too large, this company cannot be competitive. We are overmanufactured, and that was perhaps the sense of why I went into politics. My friends asked: Frank, why are you doing this to go to politics, and you're gonna mess with dirt and so on? My former Prime Minister in Canada said: Frank, yes, you're gonna fuck, but the dirt drys and falls off. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] It's just a short time. – I have often asked myself the following question: I spent a lot of money, 30 million, could I have used it better for social purposes? But I am who I am, I have a conscience, and my conscience has told me: Be involved, try to change the system! I'm very proud of what I could do for Austria. I have given 150 million as social donations, 4 billion is invested, a lot of jobs. [[President Head gives the bell sign again.]] I'm proud of it, I'm not ashamed, and I hope – it's a little world, you have to have respect for each other – when we meet again, we can shake our hands, maybe a glass of wine – Austrian wine Wine – drink and talk about what could be done better for Austria. Again: thank you very much! That was my last speech today, respectful, I withdraw, and I have told you the reasons why and why. Thank you for allowing me to be here!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11002	Mr Stronach. As you obviously want to say goodbye to our House, I also wish you every good from this point of view for the future. May your wishes, which you have just expressed, be fulfilled! Good luck! [[General condolences.]] Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11032	Dear Frank Stronach! A Farewell also from the NEOS, all good for your next stage! I think you have often brought the Republic to your mind, sometimes to smile, and at least I'm pulling the hat before your entrepreneurial performance. [[Congratulations with NEOS-LIF as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear fellow citizens on the gallery and in front of the screens! Back to the topic of this acute European hour, namely “Dual training system, training guarantee – Austria as an example for Europe”. A valued word in the foreground: Yes, we are the better Finns! In Brussels we are now regarded as the better Finns, we are being courted there. The dual training system is a lighthouse in the insurance against youth unemployment. And, of course, many countries want to know how we did this. We owe this to, among other things, the social partners, who have done so well in their best years – and that is also a matter of respect for the social partners! However, the high time has long passed – not only for the social partners, whose parts of designers have become some blockers, but of course also for the teaching. We already have to look carefully at how we can keep this success model fit for the future. We know that the teaching is under pressure from many sides, we know that the image of teaching is not the best. And we know that, obviously, not only the social partners, but also the ÖVP and SPÖ lack the imagination when it comes to dual training into the 21st century. ==References== What would NEOS do now would we be in the government, Mr. Federal Chancellor? What would we do if we were in government? – We would at least put on three points in terms of dual training. We need very firm improvements – and you also have this in the government programme, but the measures with the necessary determination are missing – in career and professional advice. It's a tragedy when we look at the Austrian school system. In the AHS upper level we have drop-out rates of a quarter, of 25 percent. A quarter of the young people starting an AHS upper level do not finish. If we look at this at the BHS, the higher education schools, we see that 100 percent start and we lose a third on the road. And when we look at the middle-level vocational schools, we see: There we lose more than half. – So, and now imagine, you are 15, 16, 17 years old, and we are the meeting of these young people – half of this hall would be school dropouts! This is not easy in a phase of life, where we know anyway that people don't have it very easy with themselves. This is a difficult phase, even a phase of self-finding. We have known for years and decades that we have a massive misguided conduct in the Austrian school system, and this misleading becomes even stronger because, of course, the weak years are now coming and the schools are trying to absorb the students from teaching. Therefore, the number of apprentices will decrease dramatically. There are HTLs in Vienna for example, which have a drop-out quota of more than 70 percent. They now make zeroer classes so that they can put in as many students as possible, of which they do not care if they accompany them at the end or not. Incentive systems are completely false in education policy, and the value-unit allocation to schools is completely wrong: as many as possible, no matter what happens to young people. We have to change that! This is also an appeal to the Minister of Education. We NEOS would increase mobility – out of the 325,000 apprentices, only 350 per year go abroad, to international professional training – and we would, of course, implement the vocational academy, i.e., anchor dual training in the tertiary sector. All of this will not come because you lack the economic understanding in the government – unfortunately. And I quote Christoph Leitl, he says today in the “Small Newspaper”: “I sit on Neos and Greens, they have jumped on our train. () I am suffering from this policy that ignores the change of the economic world." [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Go! Abbreviated! Incorrect quote!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Colleagues of the Economic Federation! You have the opportunity to reveal yourself today. We will also submit applications for the minimum-coast, the company tax, to the GmbH. And we will also make a request on the subject of profit-free payment. I want a vote to be taken by name. We have 19 people who want a name-named vote, we need another green, another liberal, so we can do it. I want a revelation page: Are the Sunday speeches by Christoph Leitl, or will you actually follow your boss at the Hohen Haus? That's what we're going to see today. Good for you – and I hope you're not at the toilet or somewhere else!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11102	Mrs Oberhauser is next spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11123	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stronach, I agree with Mr Strolz. Respect for your economic work, what you have done as a life's work! I would have preferred that you would not have damaged this life's work with some words, I say now, which has just appeared in recent times: Your image of women, your image of abortion and professional killers are things where I think you might have damaged your reputation in Austria more than you would have deserved with your life's work and with your economic work for Austria. [[Deputies Rädler and Dr. Fekter: What is this?]] In this sense, Social Democracy wishes you a healthy further way of life. Stay as you are – but I think you stay away from Austrian politics, that will do your job better! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That was unnecessary!]] On the issue of unemployment in Europe: Mr Stronach, you said so. It is the economy that creates jobs. And it is the social partners and the social partners in Austria who are also trying not to block this – as you have said, Mr Strolz – but also to take clear steps. What we have seen in the question of training, in the interaction between employers and workers, between young people and the trainers, shows that the path is the right one, but that further improvements can continue to be made. The model of dual training is an export hit. That's not a question. Many countries envy us about this real duality between learning and craftsmanship. I am with you and also with Mr Walser, who has already said in advance that we have significant problems in training, namely in schooling. That means that we have to start much earlier on the question of computing, language, reading. We know that it is not just businesses that take the money in order to train young people, but that it is sports clubs, for example. I know of some associations that are already starting in youth work, more or less teachers who are trying to learn to read, write and calculate with the young people during the training breaks. I am not sure whether it would be the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds alone, but a rethinking about the training goal, that is, what school should bring to our children, would also be necessary that we should perhaps re-adjust it. On the question of how many people in higher education schools, general education schools, are pushing: This is, I believe, not only due to the advertising technology of schools, but also to the understanding that parents have. So I come from a generation where it was still very important that the children study, go to secondary school, that is, go to gymnasium. I am the first and only one from my very large family who did the gymnasium at the time. This story has gone through. This value of teaching, the value of a course is missing. There are skilled workers who are missing. But if you look at what a skilled worker deserves today, some intern does not come to this system after a university. That is, one has to bring about a rethink in the parents' minds to say: It may be the teaching, it may be the common training! It doesn't have to be the school degree of a higher school, a college degree, but it could be the teaching! I don't know who of you on YouTube has been listening to this video of the German Poetry Slammerin, which has gone through all kinds of channels. That's where a young woman says: “One day, baby, we’ll be old and think of all the stories we could have told.” She then talks about the situation of young people for five minutes – she is a German. One of their sentences is: “My life is a waiting room, no one calls me.” That is what we experience all around Europe: that many young people are in the waiting room for a job, stand a perspective and feel that they are not calling them up. And in the situation, the European Union is now doing nothing but taking money into its hands, i.e. trying to extend this training guarantee which we have to extend to the European area. There are 6 billion, 6 plus 2 billion coming from ESF funds. It is another 6 billion – I believe part of it has already been promised – from the European Investment Bank to invest money in regions where over 25 percent of unemployment exists, in order to share prospects, in order to offer a chance to come back to life. We know that in many countries young people are forced to stay at home, no longer be able to start their own homes or return to the children's room because they can no longer afford to move somewhere. And what happens when we have a generation of prospectless young people, we see that when we look at news: That's unrest. There was youth unrest in Sweden, a very rich country, simply because there is no prospect of unemployment. Not to mention what was done by budgets in Greece and in many countries with the policy of austerity, with the “health” in question, i.e. with the to-de-spare budgets, where young people, where the labour market and everything were completely ruined. I believe that it will be a great task for the European Union and for those responsible there. I also believe that we should develop more within the framework of a social union – and hope that we can take this path with the next elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11173	Next come Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11206	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dual training is a success model for our young people, because we owe this training model to our low unemployment – we have heard it today – compared to the horrors of other regions and states. I can speak here of our state of Upper Austria, we are the apprenticeship state number one, with 26 000 apprentices, and our youth unemployment is 6 percent. However, dual training is also a success model for our economy and therefore for all of us, because with a qualified training, both in the company and in the vocational school, we manage that we have so important professionals for the future for the further development of our companies and for our economic growth. That is why our model also finds great appeal in Europe and in the world. And we are spreading this in Europe from the representation of interests. The Vice-President of the WKÖ is also Vice-President of Eurochambres, and she presents this to all 44 Eurochambres members who show great interest. Some, I think, have still not fully read the government programme, because the importance of this issue is in line with the development of the dual training system also in the government agreement. I see the first milestone in compulsory training until the 18th century. Year of life. We have 10 000 young people who do not attend secondary education, no teaching, no school. I am not of the opinion of Dr. Rosenkranz, I believe that these are lifelong social cases, and they do not want and can we afford in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are currently in Upper Austria – Mr. Dr. Walser, I do not know with what numbers They handle them – 2,000 open teaching places that we cannot occupy. So that the companies don't want to train, there's no talk about that. In this context, the preparation of young people for dual training is very important, and that is why the government programme also focused on vocational orientation, including involving external experts from the economy, as well as a personal analysis of strength. I consider this potential analysis to be very important for professional choice, because first of all we will save ourselves costs for future retrainings and second, it brings motivation for weak students who have permanent problems with parents and teachers in their everyday school life due to bad grades. These students will probably learn for the first time in their school career that they too have strengths that can be further developed. But also the Polytechnic School PLUS, decided in the government programme, is for me a very important entry into the dual system. In the future, modules will be created to re-learning basic skills computing, reading, writing, as well as modules for social competence – ranging from conflict resolution to behavioural rules – are needed, above all, to actively support the search for teaching places, as at the ninth level there are already five to twelve. Although the dual training system enjoys great recognition abroad, we have image problems in Austria. But it must also be said that in Austria we have excellent vocational schools such as the HTL, the tourism schools and so on. A step in the right direction has already been taken in the past with the teaching with Matura, another will follow, with the Matura with a shortened teaching time. This is of course also useful for the three-year vocational schools. A major concern is also the change from the over-company to the occupational teaching. Over-company training should be a springboard. As a result of demographic development, we need young people in the enterprises, and we will also need to talk more about the mobility of apprentices in the future. These were just a few points from the government programme. You see, we do not rest on our laurels, although we are the leaders in vocational training across Europe. On the contrary, we are also in cooperation with the social partners and the industrial associations on a proper, modern way for the further development of the dual system, for the future of our youth and, above all, for the security and development of our economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11263	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11284	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, to my previous speaker: At least she didn't miss the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gisela Worm.]] It was the only one of the government parties who spoke on the subject of dual training and mentioned Austria as an example for Europe. You have rightly mentioned that the government programme is considering the further development of dual training. But you have not made any specific points because you probably do not know. These are just keywords that are not filled with content. In addition, you have also addressed the image problem of teaching. I'll tell you one thing: Her ÖVP Minister for Economic Affairs Mitterlehner was significantly involved in damaging the image of teaching. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Why did one make the image of teaching bad? One has abolished quality assurance after half of the teaching time, and one has subsequently softened the protection of termination – and a number of other things more. So don't pretend you didn't blame it, as if you didn't see it in the image of the doctrine, including the Greens! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the actual item on the agenda: It has already surprised me, the SPÖ brings a current European hour with the theme “Dual training system, training guarantee – Austria as an example for Europe”, and then, including German Chancellors, there are four speakers of social democracy at work here, one speaks of Europe, what is so great in Europe, how good Europe is and that we cannot live without the euro. The dual training system, where Austria is an example of Europe, is not mentioned in any point, not even in the ten-minute speech of Mr Cap or in the ten-minute speech of Mr. Federal Chancellor, was a word to hear about it. So in school, you'd say, Missing theme, set it! You probably know what kind of note that would take. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS-LIF.]] A word on Europe before I go into the subject of dual training: Everything in Europe is supposed to be so great, and we cannot live without the euro. I have to do work twice a week in Switzerland, I live right on the border. I have to tell you, the Swiss look really pathetic, to starve. They don't have the euro, so they'd have to be awfully bad! – The reality is different: They have the lowest unemployment, much lower than we have, they have had the highest economic data since Switzerland existed last year. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer leaves the meeting room.]] The Swiss have not only the lowest youth unemployment, but also the lowest general unemployment and, despite crisis periods, make a surplus of between CHF 1.5 billion and CHF 2 billion per year in the budget. – So much for comparison with Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] And now on the topic of dual training system: Do you know – because the Minister of Labour is behind me – what does dual training mean? [[Interlocutory calls at the FPÖ, which point out that Federal Minister Hundstorfer has already left the meeting room]] – dual training means: parallel training in enterprises, accompanied by vocational schools. That is what this government has adopted over the last seven five years with great respect. You broke the image of the teaching, you abolished an extremely successful flower bonus, which in the meantime also considered the greens to be successful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] And you have the whole thing by ÜLAs, AMS training workshops and, and, and, and, replaced. This leads – now I come to the jumping point – that you always rely on statistics that do not vote in the back and in the front. As long as we are not able to accept the truth of the situation here in this House itself, as long as we do not work seriously on solutions, at least not this Federal Government – and that is the serious mistake. Now I'm bringing you a comparison: In the case of youth unemployment, they are estimated to be officially 40,000 young people. There is a report in the press, from the end of last year, which clearly speaks of 78 000 young people who have neither a job nor a training. So that's twice as high as what you're officially saying in the statistics. And then always compare with our great neighbor Germany, which is not bad economically, and say that we are even better than the Germans. Germany has ten times as many inhabitants as we do, namely 82 million. The Germans have ten times as many employees as we do. And now I'm telling you the effective figures at the end of last year. I come to unemployment statistics: The Germans did not have a total of 2.9 million unemployed at the end of last year. Austria had 340 000 unemployed, and now I leave the AMS students outside at the end of the year. If you take this one to ten now, in relation to the number of employees or the population, then Germany would have had real 6.7% unemployment at the end of last year and Austria 9.5%. Congratulations, that is the success of this federal government! However, this also shows quite clearly that in this government programme, in which you are probably addressing the development of dual training, you have not planned any measures to relieve the economy, to give incentives to the economy, to train young people more and more. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] From a reintroduction of the Blum bonus, which has proved to be a success, you are more distant than ever before. It has not only failed and fell asleep in the last seven years, it will not continue for the next five years – unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11403	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11426	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! With the theme ‘Dual training system’, and that in the context of an hour of Europe, you have given up on all of us to create a spatula – a task which, I would say, has been suboptimally solved in the previous debate. So far, it has simply been a herb and beet debate. One is talking about issues such as the character, development and deficits of dual training, i.e. a highly national area, the other about something and the third a little about Europe. I find this to be very unfortunate, but it was foreseeable. I am also responsible for the fact that we cannot really take something out of this debate. This is also a pity when we would have to discuss a whole series of very central points in Europe. Unfortunately, Mr Federal Chancellor, I have not heard anything or very little from you until now. I would like to address two points. One is the currently under negotiation free trade agreement with the USA, whose content will have massive consequences for the people of our country. It will be about the extent to which the level of our consumer protection can be maintained, for example, and where we need to be levelled down – the chlorinated chicken meat tag; You may know this argument. I have not heard anything from the Federal Chancellor here yet. I do not know whether you are involved and informed in the negotiations. I believe that this is a high level of deficit which is becoming apparent here. We need to know about the negotiations. We need to know how you position yourself in this matter for Austria in Brussels. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – This is a European theme, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you don't realize that, I'll ask you: Where do we start? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second important European policy issue: the Competition Pact. In recent months, I have repeatedly tried to get a position from the Federal Chancellor on this subject. It wasn't possible. Well, under this title, politics is now off the table, but under another, it will come back. What's that about? – There are forces in Europe that want to increase the competitiveness of Europe, by individual states, by reducing our social levels, by reducing wage levels, and by reducing public services. And I would like to know how you, Federal Chancellor Faymann, will position yourself in Brussels on this question. What are you doing to counteract this swallow that is pressing on our levels? I miss positions from you, I miss a debate. We could have discussed such a thing here today. Too bad, sorry you won't take the chance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Well, you want to talk about the dual education system, which you hardly did. We know there are deficits. There is a need for reform in support of businesses in order to train them. We have a problem with quality assurance. Some have already been mentioned by Mr Walser. However, I would like to address one more point. If you say that the dual training model is, in fact, our fight against youth unemployment, which is almost sold as the ideal instrument in Europe, then I would like to draw your attention to something. Youth unemployment is largely at the interface of education, education and the labour market. Within this over- In Austria we have the apprenticeship training or the training guarantee measures. That is why we have really good figures for the unemployed in the age group of up to 19 years old, including in European comparison. But if you look at the numbers of unemployed in the group of young people aged over 19, for example in the group of 19 to 25 years, then the figures do not look so rosy, but they are very worrying. We had an increase of up to 20 percent last year. You're not saying that. The teaching only partially combats the problem of youth unemployment, but in principle it simply shifts the problem back in age. You must look at that, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF.]] As I have said, we cannot afford to talk about Europe's policy, labour market policy and education policy over and over again. I think it's gonna take action at last. We Greens are prepared to cooperate, to make proposals, in the field of dual training reform, as well as in the fight against unemployment as a whole. But above all, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like you to become more visible and audible in Europe, and I would like you to have a European political debate with us here in the House and not stage a debate on any evasive issues and a herb and beet debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11514	Next word is reported to Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11536	High house! Federal Chancellor! Mr President. The dual training is basically a very good model. I've seen it myself. At the crafts championship in Canada, I was there where the Austrians have always had a very good place, which is very enjoyable. On the other hand, we know that dual training, as good as it is and once it has worked, is not the same as it works today. I also know this from the Magna period, because under Frank we had to build our own training centres and training facilities because simply the quality of the graduates did not fit in the free market. As we all know, the biggest career at Magna has made the toolmakers and the technicians. And there it just needs a certain technical talent, but also a skill. Unfortunately, the schools are no longer quite contemporary. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As far as the guarantee from the government is concerned, I am a bit skeptical because I am always skeptical when the government gives guarantees whether this is the case for jobs or for training places. Policy can only create framework conditions. Whether they are competitive, this will only show the free market, and only then can one measure politics. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Everything else, in my opinion, is completely realistic and at best a cosmetic measure to somehow compensate for the declining offer from the firms as far as apprenticeships are concerned. But it would be much more important to ask why the offer is declining on the part of businesses. There are two main reasons for this, as I mean, and one is the superfluous bureaucracy. The establishments are so overloaded with regulations, red tape, etc. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. The second is also the quality of training. 25 percent of all compulsory school leavers cannot read meaningfully. Yes, what should an entrepreneur do with a young person who lacks the basic building blocks? So my diagnosis is: In Austria we have a completely missing educational policy and a missing economic policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On education policy, I say quite clearly: Politics out of school! We need school autonomy. Parents need to influence who becomes the school director. He must be able to recruit his teachers, not prescribed as in the planning economy. I am also involved in the diversity and competition of school types. Competition is always good and increases quality. I am a proud graduate of a gymnasium and can tell you when I came to Canada as a 22-year-old, I was able to learn about education in general, because there is no one in the water above. The gymnasias are good, but we need competition. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And what economic policy is about: Entrepreneurs must be relieved. We from the Stronach team see ourselves as the guardians of the social market economy and free entrepreneurship. That alone is the guarantee for jobs and training, not the government! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Matthias, you mentioned a request you're going to make. I am a team player and would like to stress that we will bring it in together, and I am pleased that we will also vote in favour of the FPÖ's votes, which will result in the tax exemption, so that we can see who will vote for it. And I am pleased to vote together with you Neos, together with the liberals, and, I assume, together with the representatives of the Economic Union, that entrepreneurs may, of course, retain their income tax exemption. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of FPÖ and NEOS-LIF.]] This would not only be good for entrepreneurship in our country, but would also be a good sign of a functioning democracy. This shoulder clasp can have a model effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11630	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11651	Mr President. Estimated members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! If the subject, which was only partially dealt with, is the current European hour “Dual training system, training guarantee – Austria as an example for Europe”, then it is easy to agree at first glance. It is true that this system, which was developed in the mid-1960s, brings all the benefits that the colleagues of the government parties stress over and over again. The dual system is good to adapt the supply to the demand on the labour market of companies. However, this is only limited if one considers this in the pan-European context. While aspects such as practical work, training and well-founded theoretical knowledge in the professional world are such as it represents us today, there is no doubt that it is important tools in order to be able to exist on this very complex labour market. Because it is true that well-trained young people – that's not a secret, that's clear to all of us – have an advantage and find easy work. At second glance, however, it quickly becomes clear that these measures, as provided for in the dual training system, will only become effective if the basic conditions for them are met, namely a training place. Without training, all of this does not help, and we can still have such good training systems and try to import them, it will not work. This situation, which does not exist anywhere in Europe, is particularly evident in those countries that have been plagued by very strong youth unemployment. In these countries, we are primarily dealing with economic and structural problems, but not so much with functional difficulties. And it takes macroeconomic access to solve this. What we need – I say clearly – is a European shoulder closure. We need a common economic area that leads to a common labour market. What is the situation in which we are in Europe? We've heard this more often today. The youth unemployment rate of up to 50 percent in Spain does not result from a mis-elected training system, but is an expression of a structural crisis, and ultimately it is the second phase of the financial crisis we are facing here. If the labour market is increasingly collapsing in these countries, jobs are getting less and less, even a proposal of a dual system is nothing that is really helpful, at least not short-term. We need other access. Indeed, all the Member States of the European Union have a duty to put in place: one, by using and implementing more coordinated savings measures to reduce deficits, the other by closing their shoulders and finally living European solidarity. It is no secret if I tell you that we love Neo's Europe, because we love people in Europe. We Neos are the party in the Austrian Parliament, which says the most clearly. [[Abg. May. Honey: Love makes you blind!]] To love means to want to be part of it. In this context, I would like to mention an extended instrument here, and I am somewhat surprised that this has not yet been mentioned by any and none of my previous speakers, namely a programme presented last week by the European Commissioner for Education, the Erasmus+ programme. Under the name Erasmus+, all international offers for students, students and apprentices will be summarized in future. The budget is growing by 40 percent to € 14.5 billion. Although it is less than the Commission has proposed – it wanted 17 billion, it did not go along with all the states – it is something that is absolutely supportive and brings about what we want: greater mobility within the European Union. A total of 3 million people have participated since 1987, the year of the Erasmus foundation. The aim is to increase this figure to 4 million by 2020. Erasmus works and is a well established educational initiative with solid results. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We welcome the expansion mainly because the focus is placed on apprentices and so that Europe no longer remains a project of the elites, but is something that comes to the citizens. Europe belongs to us, we shape it together! - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11694	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:57:22]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e11720	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12001	I also say that the First Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12019	Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, asked for the written question 502/J from Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance, to be dealt with in an even greater amount of billions for the hypo-Alpe Adriatic and again less money for science and education. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12040	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12065	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 “Vienna hours” was set according to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure agreed to give the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 95, FPÖ 88, Green 74 as well as Stronach and NEOS-LIF per 39 minutes. For the duration of the television broadcast in ORF 2 after the current European hour until 1 pm, the following statement was agreed: a round of speakers with 7 minutes each and a member of government with 7 minutes, thus a total of 49 minutes. The number of speakers in the first round is as follows: FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, Team Stronach, NEOS. Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television transmission time in ORF 2. In the event of delays in the session procedure, the President, in agreement with the political groups, shall ensure, by shortening the speaking time per Member of Parliament, that the member of the government is still speaking in the context of the television era. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you very much. [[12:00:01]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 81/A by Mr Dr. Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (20 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12125	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12152	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In December 2013, the new or old Federal Government was presented in the National Council, with the introduction of which of course some change became visible. We have experienced it: For example, the Ministry of Science was abolished. We have experienced that, if one wants to do so, some personal-political cosmetics have taken place, a small new decoration of the display window, by some change in staff – Mr. Vice-Chancellor is no longer Foreign Minister, but there is a new Foreign Minister, there is a new staff occupation with Mrs. Karmasin as a family minister – but otherwise it is not really new. If I judge this overall, I have to say: I wonder what the coalition negotiations took for so long, because nothing had been done except fees – otherwise it cannot be summarized. We have an old federal government, where, although Mr President Fischer said, we should give the new government a chance, but, well, I really wonder to what extent it needs a chance. I mean, you seem to have needed the longest warming phase in political history, because you have been in the government since 2006. It's an old government! I wonder what new opportunity you need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since 2006, you have had the opportunity to move on in this country of ours, and unfortunately nothing has happened to God, you have to get it quite open and dry to the point. There would be a lot to do, but I say, unfortunately, one must fear that red and black side will simply give a squirrel as before, and until now we are going to experience this squirrel. We see Lethargie, we can perceive a lack of work, and I have to hold on to one, Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann – he has already gone –: The former Chancellor Gusenbauer was one who, compared to you, sprayed before work if you gave a direct assessment of the work. Then, in the middle of the month, you had a clause in Waidhofen on the Ybbs, which meant where you could again experience the following – that is, the same as at all government classes – the great declarations of intent. There were great explanations of intent, what will happen, but nothing is in sight from a litter, from a large or a medium throw! One already gets the impression that both the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor and administrator are acting. Today, they manage to some degree political misery in our country. This is an administration of the crisis, an administration of the state of affairs. The administration will stay inflated! This is pure administration, and one does not experience a desire to design and change, and one does not realize, above all, that one would realize that we have massive problems in our country, as we have already seen in the field of dual education, in the field of teaching, and how we perceive it in the area of unemployment, which is always beautifully spoken, although we have record unemployment. This is evident in many areas. Where is the necessary comprehensive administrative reform which the Court of Auditors has publicly requested in so many respects? – Nothing is in sight! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They operate a hole-to-hole policy, where you do not plan any administrative reform again, but, on the contrary, try, with new tax increases and new tax charges, to continue to get the money out of the hands of the citizens by creating and bringing something further into the hands of those people who work month after month as a service provider in this country and who are already suffering from maximum taxes. So if you think that you can somehow ensure a future capacity for our country, then you are completely wrong – the opposite is the case! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One may also be excited about how the measures you have announced will then be implemented, because I say regarding the announcements that we have been experiencing since 2006 that you are talking about announced measures for older workers and about wanting to do something for young people in our country and about launching alleged labour market offensives. Yes, it needs it! We need labour market offensives, we need a relief for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that jobs are not only secured, but that we can create new jobs, but I do not experience this in recent years. The opposite is the case. And I am very excited about the point where your great offensive for economic growth will finally be presented in concrete points by you. I haven't experienced anything until now except pipers! If you judge your permanent lack of courage and ideas over the last few years, you have to say that you are constantly compensating this lack of courage and ideas with the same leader, that is, how blessed the European Union is and what happy things these have brought to us all; for example, the euro, which is so great. There, the crisis is almost left aside, and we are talking about the big rescue packages. – Nothing has been saved for a long time, there is still a lot more coming to us, and I just say: Hopefully not France will be the next major construction site. I do not want to know how you then explain to us what rescue packages we could somehow save the euro not only theoretically, but also practically. So the crisis has not ended for a long time, and that is why it is also necessary to discuss alternatives, of course. Discussion is important, thinking is important, making comparisons is important. Switzerland is not a country where beggars can be found today, although it does not have the euro, nor is it Sweden. So, even with the Danes it is not. So you have to have an honest debate when you debate it. Yesterday, the great announcement has now also become public, namely those concerning the great savings in the field of executive and security. One wants to abolish 122 police stations, and there is no Vienna at all. That's what I'm saying, please: Good night! If that is your future policy for the country, that is, the shack in security policy, then you will be really bad, I say it quite openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely there that we cannot save at an increasing rate of crime, in a development where we would need an increase in the number of executive officials, because, compared to the year 2000, we today have fewer 3 000 executive planning posts, although many things have taken place, such as the enlargement of the East, the extension of the Schengen area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] There have been measures where we should not have reduced 3,000 officials, but where we really need more executive officials today than in 2000, but there are 3 000 missing! And instead of starting to hire and train new ones, you're making another security-political hit. So no citizen has any more understanding of this! It's a shame that the Federal Chancellor isn't here personally. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I also missed the fact that he was taking a clear position on the left-wing extremities of last Friday. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has not lost anything in our country that maroding violent agents and destroyers pass through the city, but then no critical and renouncing words take place. I think that's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12271	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12286	I know, the closing point. – This shows that the Lord Federal Chancellor is apparently blind on the left eye.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12313	Next is Mr. Klubobmann Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12335	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The discussion about the Federal Ministry's Law is not so crucial in itself from the law, because I believe that it is important to divide the competences – whether it is now that we transfer art and culture from the Ministry of Education to the Federal Chancellor's Office, that the women's and equal opportunities affairs from the Federal Chancellery to the Ministry of Women and Education, that integration into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs changes, and that this also changes its name, namely, “Federal Ministry of Europe, Integration and External Affairs”, that the area of family and youth is taken out of the previous Ministry of Economic Affairs, and that there is now a minister for families and youth in a ministry of its own, and that research and science are not dissolved, as some have claimed, but come to a ministry that is summarized to the Ministry of Science, Research and Economy – the more essential in the assessment is not what the subject matter is combined. That's a little scurrile about the internal debate: Every area needs its own minister!, is always demanded by every member of the opposition, and At the same time, there is a demand that, at the end of the day, there should be less ministers than before. At the same time, one cannot have both, so one will always have to sum up any subject matter, and ultimately whether they are good or bad, depends not only on the political issues, but also, of course, on those who act. And trust in the people who have been selected is absolutely there, and therefore I also believe that all these issues can be dealt with well. Nevertheless, we have succeeded in having two members of the government, i.e. two State Secretarys, less, and thus creating such a symbolic reduction of the government. But not only does new governance mean regrouping the issues but, of course, re-government also means addressing new questions and giving answers in terms of content. An essential project in this legislative period will be to abolish the silence of office, namely the change from the silence of office to the information right of citizens. The principle of freedom of information and thus also transparency is to be enforced, which is also a quantum leap in public administration and in the management of the public. New governance, however, also means sparing, which is also reflected in the following: Only if we discuss the saving of half a billion euros in discretionary expenditure today will this be a political objective, which cannot be achieved alone with the red light, but only through sustainable structural changes. At the same time, however, it is also important that, when making such structural changes, one does not shorten in a staff area where people are needed. This concerns teachers – we will continue to need the number we now have in the future – and this, of course, also concerns the executive officials, i.e. the police, where we have also committed ourselves to the fact that there will be no service posts, no police officers any less. This is a very, very important principle, because it also leads to the fact that safety for the people is not reduced, which is more guaranteed by the police than by the guards themselves; we need policemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] New government also means to organize the way between federal government and countries wisely, not according to this old domestic policy game: Who is stronger and who is the winner?, but according to the rules: There has to be progress and victory for all!, namely, through the separation of competences so that there are no more double-tracks, but that it can be decided efficiently and quickly at the level and that those double-tracks that we all complain so often belong to the past. However, new governments also mean eliminating double-tracks between the ministries, and therefore new governments also mean creating an office of the Federal Government, where many administrative and administrative matters that have so far organized each ministry – and the ministry, which is adjacent to it, has also organized for itself – will in the future be organized by an office for all, with which the processes can not only be organised more cost-effectively, but also faster, simpler and comprehensiblely. New governance also means setting accents here in Parliament, such as the whole question of democratic reform. We also want to deal with this in a committee of inquiry, which is also concerned with the involvement of citizens in the political process, during this legislative period. It is also a matter of content. Because this has been mentioned – and I would like to say something to Mr Strache in a matter of fact: A 350 million package for older unemployed people shows that we have identified and handle the problems in the labour market, so that it never gets as far as it is in other countries, namely that the labour market is in a problem situation. And on the other hand, in the case of young people, we do it by means of training guarantee and training obligation that young people come to the labour market early and we do not have to fix the problems later, when they are 20, 25 years old, to much more money. In the same way, in the field of education throughout the whole field of all-day school forms, it is also an essential point for the integration of society, but also for young people to be prepared at an early stage for all the opportunities and opportunities offered by the education system for them. This is a discharge for the families in the school sector, if we offer school forms throughout Austria all day, but also a discharge for the students, because they can be better embedded in the whole system. That's why one also sees: The Federal Ministry Act is only the technical cover for the implementation of really many important political projects that we will be discussing here in the House in the near future and which will also guarantee one thing: that Austria can continue its way well.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12407	Mrs Maurer is next spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12428	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Government! [[Call:Member! Only Eastermayer on the government bank]] Of course, I would like to talk to Mr Mitterlehner now, because I think he should hear the concerns about the combination of the Ministry of Science and Economics, but well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] I have to deal briefly with what you have just said here, Mr Schieder – even here. I find it quite surprising that you are now saying that there is a symbolic reduction of the government, and for that – for a symbolic reduction; that is, not for a real savings, but for a symbolic reduction – put together the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economics. For a symbolic reduction, the Ministry of Science is abolished as an independent ministry. That's kind of weird now, I have to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They want to decide today to abolish this independent ministry. I will tell you again today why this is a very big mistake and why we Greens will not agree to this Federal Ministerial Act either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] In all your brochures, in all your Sunday speeches, at your reception, which has already taken place, you emphasize the importance of science and research – however, you have to say that fairly, anyway, only under the one aspect of economic usefulness; overall social development is already too short in all your speeches. This fits quite well with what the great fears of this combination are. The Community's excitement is still great and is therefore entirely right because the independence of research and science is at risk. ==References====External links== We also see that this is confirmed on a continuous basis in December. Unfortunately, Mr Mitterlehner is not here now. He says the concern is unfounded because he wants to maintain independence, but the interests of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Science are not compatible, and I really wonder how he wants to do it – he cannot split up. When you look at what's going to happen to us now, who's one of the big players in this area: This is the Chamber of Commerce. And what does Mr Leitl, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, say on all these questions? – For example, he has just said in the past that basic research is not so important anyway and that we need to promote it only at EU level and that we in Austria should focus on applied research. In concrete terms, he has even proposed a so-called third solution to finance basic research on the EU, to finance a third-party applied research in Austria, and another third directly to what he called production transfer. Thus, public money is intended to directly finance prototypes and products with which you can go directly into the economy. This is the position of Mr Leitel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] Mr Leitel also said that he would not want to shorten the FWF anyway, but he would also want basic research to become more application-oriented. – Mr Mitterlehner will be confronted with such things in the future, and Mr Leitl is also his counterpart to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I'm very excited about how he'll manage this. We will measure him by what he has to say about basic research and what he does for it. It is also true that, to my great amazement in this budget commission, although the subdivisions 33 and 34 are the research pots in the BMVIT and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, are excluded from the reduction, but not the Ministry of Science. So that's what you've got to do now: First, the independent science ministry is abolished, and then there are also cuts at the beginning! That's your message, how this government wants to deal with science and research? So I'm sorry, can't you be serious?- Oh, my God! We know that this place has been underfinanced chronically for years. We urgently need an increase in resources and no reduction! Mr Mitterlehner first said that he wanted to replace these cuts with private money, then he said he would not replace them, but would like to make it in addition to public money – only now the public money will be deleted. We are talking about €42 million, which are saved there, but which are urgently needed. Where will these 42 million be saved? – This only concerns things like non-university research, especially the humanities, social and cultural sciences. They will not benefit greatly from private sponsors, too, Mr Mitterlehner has already announced this in the press hour. So, I wonder how Minister Mitterlehner wants to deal with it. I shall measure him by whether he works for these non-university research institutes, which have already been severely restricted in the past, or not. But just as it looks, he'll have no other way. Then Minister Mitterlehner said that he would correct these cuts by repossessing deposits, so to speak. However, the reserves in the Ministry of Science are for the most part reserved for the FWF, for MedAustron, for very large projects. This means that very few millions are available. Then he also said that it was about administrative restructuring. -Excuse me, but we have known for many, many years that there is no big money to get in this area. So everything in everything can be said: The fears that we already feared on 17 November. It has been confirmed in the last six weeks in December. Then: Not only is the Ministry of Science abolished – only because of a symbolic reduction in the government sector – but 42 million are still saved where basic research is located, research in BMVIT, applied research in the BMVIT and the Ministry of Economic Affairs is excluded. Is that your signal, Mr Mitterlehner? - You can't be serious! For this reason, of course, we will not agree to this merger. And we will observe you very, very carefully, how you deal with basic research and how you will fight for it in particular – I expect you – that the science budget will be expanded and not further reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12489	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12510	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Strache meant nothing except sprees. - That's where he's subject to a huge error. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: It's not true!]] The Federal Government, of course, wants to do what it calls for in the public sector as a whole, even in itself at the beginning, namely, to act sparingly. Yes, there have been savings here. And as for the second error of the opposition, I must say: One has never thought of savings in the reorganisation of science and the economy, but the savings made concern the two state secretariats, and they are known to have been settled in other areas. And with that, the Austrian Federal Government is in a European comparison – please listen, colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Less headlines and more concrete proposals!]] – This means that we have one of the smallest federal governments in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That can only be an argument for bad policy! That's really cheap!]] Only in micro-states such as Malta, Cyprus or Estonia do you have fewer ministers than in Austria, and then with our neighbours Hungary, and that's it already over. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: But better for that!]] But there is a limit where one can no longer save, because then the individual ministers will no longer be able to deal with their task. So I'll tell you: It has been done sparingly here, but it has been done in such a way that ministers can fulfil their duties. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] Next, on the statement: There's nothing new, old looks the whole thing. – Mr Strache, then your parliamentary group looks ancient! I tell you why: because half of the ministers are new to us. And that's something new! And I'm asking you: What else would you have done? - I'll tell you that right away, you just have to let me talk. [[Abg. Strache: What is new about the contents?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] - They don't have a party book! Col. Pilz, you have other concerns now, I have read your blog on your Green Youth. I hope they listen to you! That would be good, because you have professional demonstration experience, there you are the real expert. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: You're out of youth!]] So when you exchange, look at what you need to exchange! The party book doesn't need to exchange our new ministers, because they don't have one. Your colleague Karmasin doesn't have a party book. The Minister of Justice has no party book. That only to your knowledge, you should have missed it! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: And you?]] -I have a party book. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I have always had one, and that also distinguishes me from you, because you have also exchanged the party book! But that is a matter of character – if we discuss it now, Mr Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Since when do you have a party book?]] In your blog yesterday, you have reasoned that you are grateful for having exchanged the party book so early. But I think you've had another one before the SPÖ's party book. But that would be another story. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now back to the Federal Ministry Act. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] - I meant your student past. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: I've never been to the ÖVP!]] - Yes. Maybe it's still coming! You can be broken. Mr Pilz, it is not forbidden to be failed. But now back to the thing! What is not new to this federal government – and that is a good thing – is that you keep it where you have professionals, and then you can put more pressure on it. On the one hand, Reinhold Mitterlehner is a minister who has a special, important role in the future. Then: It is the main task of the Federal Government to do everything that Austria continues to have the lowest unemployment in Europe and, more importantly, the lowest youth unemployment. And the other, which is not new – that is the only one of the ÖVP Group within this government, where the field of responsibility has not changed – is the Minister of the Interior. But it has already been criticized here today. Mr Strache, your group is always calling for reforms in the administration. And your group is very often referring to the Court of Auditors. Hanni Mikl-Leiter is now doing exactly what the Court of Auditors calls for. And yesterday, the President of the Court of Auditors also confirmed that it is right to bring the police out to the people, rather than, as it were, populating the police as many places as possible. That's the point! [[Abg. Strache: The Court of Auditors says there are too few executive officials!]] Read what the President of the Court of Auditors said yesterday, where he supports exactly this procedure! [[Abg. Street: There are 3 000 planning places missing in the executive!]] – This has nothing to do with the planning stations for the time being, but it has to do with the fact that the police who are there are being used optimally and that those who are in use do not have to be on their own. We know how dangerous this commitment is often. And this reform is the first major reform of this new federal government! I'm glad it's our minister who's the starting point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now also a sentence on the Federal Ministry's Law relating to science and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Today, Switzerland has already been mentioned several times as an example. Switzerland is a model for us in the field of science. Do you know what Switzerland has? – A Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Research. So the Swiss do exactly what we do in Austria. By the way, we had exactly that in the past. Has anyone been excited when the Minister of Transport was with one or with Minister Scholten? – I didn’t hear from the Greens that the excitement was great! I have looked into the parliamentary protocols. Mr Kogler, if you have the evidence, show it to me! I didn't notice. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But the Scholten was not Minister of Economic Affairs!]] Now it fits into the party-political discussion, to exasperate yourself about it, so do what you always do: On the one hand, you demand that you proceed efficiently and as best as possible, on the other hand, changes, if there are any, are criticized, no matter how they are. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Scholten has had a different science affinity than she has Mitterlehner!]] We also have one in our group which, out of personal concern, will not vote in favour of this law today. That's what I'm saying here: I understand that in this case! But I do not understand when party-politically motivated is done as the Greens do today. This federal government has strong personalities – and they are the decisive ones! In reality, the Federal Ministry Act is only the framework or basis on which they will work.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12768	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12790	Mr President. Minister! High house! This discussion really gives a little reason to think. If the Federal Ministry Act is regularly amended at the beginning of a new legislative period, then there is hope, as an administrative reform is obviously possible, if only you really want it, because this is a reform of the administration at the head of the government when you create ministries when you put together ministries, come new ministers and have to go old ministers. This is in principle, let us say, a normal political process. But of course it is also a symbolic process. If you create a ministry, obviously because you have to divide the ministries by sex, then this is one thing, but if you put science and economy together in a ministry, that's another thing. It just has a strong symbol character. And especially in view of the problems we have in the field of education and in the university field, I really think it is a problem to break the head of the Ministry of Science, so to speak, and to assign this area to another ministry. However, I consider the question of so-called economicisation to be going in the wrong direction. One cannot say on the one hand that universities should get more money, but on the other hand, all this should have nothing to do with economy at all. So that's a little inconvenient. However, there are so great problems in the field of education and universities that I believe that the original regulation, that there is a minister of its own, should have been maintained. In the university field, we have the question of the restrictions on access which the old Minister, if I may say so, has devoted himself with a lot of heart. He's got it. Even attempts to use loopholes in the law to allow for study fees. It is about how training is as good as possible, how to put pressure on universities to make the selection themselves at the beginning, so that there are small teaching units, if there are no restrictions on access. These are major topics where it is better not to put together a section head with the rectors, but to emphasize the importance of having a minister in these matters responsible. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When talking about the direction of research, I have to say: Yes, this is also a problem in our country! If I buy some tennis shoes over the Internet and then come from China because we're just researching on the completely wrong side, then I mean: The universities are also part of our society, and also the applied research and industrial research can and should have their respective place at the universities. Or: If we have young people who, when we ask them what they are doing, say: Yes, I'm being trained in Austria, because here the education is still good, but then I go abroad, I certainly don't stay here!, then we also have to ask ourselves if we're not doing a lot of wrong if we're actually training for someone else. At a time when we have to look very closely at the money in which we have to look very closely at where we spend something, we also have to ask ourselves the question: In what direction are the universities going, in which direction is researched? And then you might also be able to ask yourself alternatively: Yes, does the State University really have to have priority? Can we not also allow more private service in this area to serve our society in wide areas? I would like to take up one comment made by Clubobmann Lopatka and which has somehow affected me during my entire current speech, namely that one can vote differently because of personal distress. This is certainly a particularly interesting reason. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Loacker.]] After all, we are all subject to the free mandate, and that in a government group personal concern should, so to speak, be a justification, an excuse for another vote, is a truly interesting, perhaps forward-looking perspective. Think, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties, whether you may not be personally affected at any vote and would like to make a little more use of the possibility of free mandate in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12857	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e12878	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So we won't have our own science ministry for the next five years. I said that I felt that this was a mistake in the last session. In order to satisfy the respective alliances and the interests of the countries within the ÖVP, the ÖVP has simply reduced the importance of science. And the SPÖ just watched. And with this underestimation of science, Austria will have to live for the next five years. Understanding I can't do that. I shall therefore put forward another amendment in this respect. But now to the point I really don't understand at all: In order to create synergies, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Science has now clearly been brought together. I would like to take you to the floor, especially with regard to synergies, and ask you why the research agendas continue to be divided into different ministries. I have broken my mind in recent weeks about whether there will perhaps be a meaningful consolidation with regard to research agendas. In the short term, I had the hope that this synergies effort, which is here, will also drive you in this context. Nothing like that happened. The splitting remains so. And what I understand less is the fact that you still want to see the university area shared. The educational universities continue to be an attachment to the Ministry of Education, although you wanted to create meaningful synergies. In this context, one cannot even talk about synergies in the conventional sense, but simply about a logical and long-term overdue step. We NEOS demand that the PHs be perceived as what they are, namely universities. And that's why they also belong to the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics, as it will probably now be called. In Austria, the PHs take over one of the most important tasks in the Austrian society, namely the training and education of future teachers, and therefore also the PHs and their autonomy must be strengthened and should have the same importance as universities and colleges in Austria. The government programme 2008 to 2013 states that: “Pedagogical universities have a central role to play in the education and training of teachers and are to be supported by the further development of their tasks and structures and a modern and performance-oriented right of service and remuneration for university teachers.” However, there is no longer any reference to the central role of the PHs in the new government programme. To date, the educational universities have not been given the opportunity to truly develop into independent autonomous universities. However, if the education of teachers should have the importance to it in a knowledge society, then it is precisely these autonomous universities that need it. The experience of providing the appropriate framework conditions for such a development is clearly in the Ministry of Science. And in order to finally put an end to the communication problems between the two ministries in this context, it would have been an easy thing to include PHs in the new Ministry of Science and Economics. In order to be able to develop precisely the synergies that have just been spoken of in this context, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And now I'm bringing in another amendment, namely: Amendment by Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on Amendment 81/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986, as amended by the Committee's report (20 d.b.) The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: Amendment 81/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986, as amended by the Committee's report (20 d.b.) is amended as follows: 1. In Z 1, § 1 para. 1 Z 13: ‘(13) Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs,’ 2. In Z 1, § 1 para. 1 The following Z 14 added: “(14) Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs Science and Research.” 3rd. In Z 18 the word ‘science, research and’ is replaced by ‘scientific, research’. 4. Z 21 Not applicable 5. In Z 23, the word ‘science, research and’ is replaced by ‘scientific, research’. 6. Z 28 reads: ‘The previous section M of Part 2 of the Annex to Section 2 receives the following: Name ‘N’. 7. In Section N (new) Z 1, the last item is: ‘Scientific research and international mobility programmes, the European Research Area and European Framework Programmes’;
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13012	Both the motion for a resolution which has just been tabled and the amendment tabled are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13149	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Ostermayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To the Federal Ministry Act, everything has been said by the two clubmen. I therefore spoke because Mr Klubobmann Strache accused the Federal Chancellor that he would not have distanced himself from violence and was blind to the left eye. I have known the Federal Chancellor for a long time and can confirm to you that he is neither left nor right blind. He looks good with both eyes. But there are certain things that you don't have to stress regularly. We do not have to distance ourselves from violence, because no one would seriously come to the idea that we would approve of violence. We also do not need to distance ourselves from hate postings at regular intervals. We also do not regularly hate people against each other; neither would anyone blame us. We don't provoke, and no one would blame us for provoking by the event of a ball. On the contrary: We are commemorating together and warning of the violence that has tragically occurred in the last century. We commemorate the beginning of the First World War 100 years ago. We commemorate 1927 and February 1934, i.e. 80 years. We commemorate the beginning of World War II 75 years ago and the persecution of Jewish fellow citizens, Roma, homosexuals and other minorities in the Shoah. We have learned that economic disasters can lead to social and political dissent and, in future, to the end of democracy and major conflicts of violence, to wars. Therefore, in 2008, we have put in place many measures to prevent the warning of some well-known historians from Great Britain, Germany, from all over Europe, namely that the 2008 economic disaster could be similar to 1929, if not countered accordingly. We have, in part, jointly decided on economic packages and have put in place many measures to counter them. Of course, the mood is not particularly euphoric due to the crisis. But there are also voices such as Peter Michael Lingens in the “profile”, who say that in many areas we have come through the crisis better than the economic locomotives of Germany or other states. I think the task in the last legislative period was to get through the crisis as well as possible without harm. The task of the current Federal Government is to get out of the crisis as well as possible. That is exactly what is behind the government programme: many steps to help improve people in this country at the end of this legislative period. I know that there is always the expectation of the great throw. But from my experience and historical point of view, democracy has always been best driven if it has put in place many individual measures in which the population could also be taken. Our actual agenda, the Federal Ministry Act, is the result of this government agreement, these government negotiations. For my area I can say: I look forward to the future competence for art and culture. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13238	Mr Karlsböck was next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13259	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the high house and at home in front of the televisions! Mr Minister, I have to address your comments very briefly. The German Federal Party has only found that until now, the Federal Chancellor has not expressed any negative views on these transactions. That's it. You refer to ‘we’ in your opinion. Who Is “We ”? Are you talking about him and himself or about the entire federal government? It was meant by the Federal Chancellor. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer: The part of the Federal Government is and you are chairman!]] But we are now discussing the Federal Ministry Act. That's what I want to address. Ladies and gentlemen! The world consists of symbolism, and in the field of science, research, technology, integration there is a lot of emotionality. We have several levels to highlight, and our criticism has two facets: on the one hand, the atmospheric that opens up here, and on the other hand, the technical. Unfortunately, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka is not here. He said that there had been savings in government. To this end, I would like to insist on the following before I come to the specialist: We currently have the situation that we have a minister who has a lot to do with two key ministers. Mr Mitterlehner has had a lot of work to do. It is fair to say that it is not easy, of course, to have a little bit of free hand on the agenda in such a super-ministerium, especially in the field of government. Everyone working in this ministry also wants to get in touch with the Minister. It is therefore also important to do a lot of representative work. This means that a minister has two ministries to care for, and of course there are also synergies: There is now only one cabinet, a cabinet speaker, an office and, above all, only one van. On the other hand, the former Foreign Minister and current Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance have set up a ministry where three people are responsible for this, one or one and a half of which was once responsible. This means – in order to present it symbolically now – three cabinets, three secretaries, three cabinet heads, three press speakers, and above all – and this is the symbolism – three vans. I'm just telling you: There is in no way a need for savings or savings for people. On the contrary, the following mentality is shown: Actually, I'm overwhelmed with this ministry anyway, I take two assistants to it. We also need to listen internationally to the ridicules about the fact that Mr. Vice-Chancellor does not come to the very important meetings to which he should go, but lets his ministerial officials – not even the State Secretary – go there. In a technical sense, we are opposed to a merger of the Ministry of Science with the Ministry of Science, because, when it comes to a merger, we naturally want to see synergies. We want to see that there are actually pro-competent effects when shifts of competence take place from one side to another. But this is not the case here either, because science and the economy de facto exclude each other. The merger is concerned that, in the future, the important basic research of purely economic interests or pragmatic objectives will be subordinated to applied research. We have nothing against applied research. We also supported – and I will stress this again today – the technical universities and the areas that are going in this direction. Education, however, is simply more than training, and all the arrogances of the Federal Government to education as our future remain, unfortunately, empty words when science is neglected in the humboldt sense, if it is no longer possible to go into the broad and to counteract the often accused loss of thematic sovereignty. Research and teaching are free, science and teaching are free. – This is in our federal constitution, and I believe all the Members here are a hundred percent behind this statement. However, if we take education seriously, we must put it on a solid foundation, free from economic constraints, such as the need to recruit third-party funds at any price. Managing basic research in an economic ministry is a contradiction in itself. If there is already a combination, we therefore call for our own Ministry of Education. We are also submitting a motion for a resolution which follows the criticism of the professors at the end of last year. That's what it says – quote –: “The abolition of the Ministry of Science is a clear sign that research and teaching in Austria do not have the support necessary for their contribution to the country’s future.” To do this, it is very simple – also symbolic – to have a corresponding representation in the government. That is why, in summary, the aggregation of the agendas of education, science and research is of the utmost importance, not least in terms of the use of synergies between these areas. In addition, this has proved its worth in the past in Austria. Close linkage and coordination of the fields of education, science and research is an essential prerequisite for optimising and improving the quality of Austrian education. You can still underline this with a number: Of 45 European countries, 38 have such a merger, such a merger of these agendas in a Ministry of Education. Our request is as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13318	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore immediately under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13407	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13428	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to stress here again why this has happened. Why is the Federal Ministry Act now being amended? – This is actually just the outflow of what is common in the government agreement, the ÖVP and SPÖ. This is what is to be done quite simply and how the work is to be divided in the future. I am saving myself the division, because it has already been carried out by many of my previous speakers. Nevertheless, I would like to address four points which are particularly important to me in this law. The first is the abolition of the silence of office. We have always said that it is important to us that the population know that the citizens know That's what the government is doing. This should not be done somewhere behind closed doors, but should be open and transparent. This principle of freedom of information is therefore to be implemented for citizens. The second point is the harmonisation of distributions of competence, with particular reference to the fact that there should not be competitive situations between the federal government and countries. We have already discussed this in the current hour on the topic of family support or family support. On the one hand, we have said that it is good that families receive so much support, but on the other hand, these subsidies are partly so complicated to obtain from the federal government or from the country that double-tracks belong to them. This should become more transparent in the sense of the citizens. So I see absolutely no disadvantage in this. My third point would be effective action. Let us start with this at the Federal Ministries! So far, every Federal Ministry itself has been responsible for the organization of Kulis and desks. Now there is to be an office of the Federal Government that takes over these things for all ministries. Considering how to simplify work processes, it can be seen that the quality of work done does not decrease, but that efficiency is increased and synergies are used in the sense of the population. I can be particularly proud of the fact that the city of Vienna is recognized worldwide in the field of E-Government and is also cited again and again. This is not only so in Europe, but really worldwide. We are, of course, required to further develop this, and this, of course, needs more and more consideration. I do not see what Mr Strache has said, for example, at all. He said there was nothing going on at all, the administration was being bloated. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you could tell the colleague that we have created an administrative jurisdiction. The administrative jurisdiction has been since 1. Valid for January this year. This is one of the biggest reforms we have made over the last hundred years, one of the biggest reforms for legal security for the Austrians. We expect faster and faster decisions, on the one hand, in the interests of the citizens, and, on the other hand, of course, of industry, on the other. It can't be that it's gonna take forever for an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur to look for a notice. It should work faster, and this, of course, should also attract companies to engage in Austria. I think it's a good base we can build on here, and it's up to us what we're doing from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13480	Next is Mrs Mag. Brunner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13501	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Watchers! It is up to a government to face up to the problems we face over the next few years, to face the challenges that we must face. And precisely with the Federal Ministry Act, the government shows who is to take on what tasks. One of the greatest challenges of this century is surely climate change and the energy transition, the conversion of the energy system to a renewable, decentralised, civil energy system. It is important to rethink systems, to act again, to reassess themselves, because it will not be possible to create a renewable system with a fossil way of thinking. Unfortunately, the government did not do that. Energy is still being created fossil, the environment does not matter. The reasons are varied: fossil lobbys, political indifferences, the safeguarding of power, but also a massive structural deficit, a structural misconception. The energy evenings are at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the environment is in agriculture. This is not suitable for a forward-looking energy policy. There is also a very concrete example of how to establish this disproportionate relationship, namely the implementation of a European regulation on trans-European networks and energy projects, which is very large, especially fossil energy projects. The Minister of Economic Affairs has declared himself responsible without the participation of the Ministry of the Environment – that is, without having to play a role in the procedures for the approval, in the design of these procedures environmental interests and citizens' participation. I don't think that's possible. This will be an important fight for us here in this House. We will ensure in the Environment Committee that environmental interests and citizens' participation in the approval of such giant projects are not missed, but – on the contrary – expanded. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Klubobmann We are not here now, but he has accused us as opposition that we are for every subject – Ah, but! [[Call the ÖVP: It's here! There he sits!]] Mr Klubobmann, you have accused us that, according to our demands, each department should have its own ministry. I do not call for this, I have a proposal for the merger of disciplines. I am in favour of the merger of environmental and energy agendas, because I believe that we can only address the energy transition and climate change in a holistic way. That's not going to be enough either. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Agriculture, too? What about business?]] It could remain if the appropriate focus were there. I was just saying that the combination of environment and energy will not be the only way. Ordinary climate and energy policy must be the task of the entire federal government. I call for this from the entire Federal Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, to play an essential role. But the combination of environmental and energy agendas would give the Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for many things, but often does not have the necessary means of implementation, at least once for the energy sector the necessary skills. I firmly believe that Austria can and must take a pioneering role in terms of climate change and energy change. I see it as a task of Austria to take up this role as a model. But this would also be a huge opportunity, a huge opportunity for Austria to position itself internationally well. That's why I stick to my demand: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13554	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13575	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We decide with the Federal Minis- Teriengesetz the distribution of competence within the Federal Government. This has been discussed intensively, but essentially it is a formal act. It is, of course, the Federal Government's concern, how it distributes and assigns the tasks. Finally, we all work for the people, the citizens of our country, not for the sharing of competences within the Federal Government, but for the tasks of how the topics are dealt with. And then our federal government insists that Austria is well governed and well-worked for the people. That is the decisive! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, I would like to keep a few things on the distribution of resources, because this has also been discussed here again. My clubman Dr. Lopatka has already said that not the number of ministries has been reduced, but only the number of heads within the Federal Government. In times when it is generally a matter of savings, it is also a sign because the Federal Government is beginning to save itself and the number of government members is falling to an acceptable level – we are not the largest government, as has already been said. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] It is crucial that: The number of ministries has not been reduced; each ministry continues to exist in its own right. Only individual ministries are assigned in combination to a Federal Minister, a Federal Minister. And so there is also this combination in which the independent Ministry of Science and Science is conducted in personnel union with the independent Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Federal Minister Mitterlehner. If you know the Federal Minister Mitterlehner and his work – he is just like me from the Mühlviertel – you can say that these resorts are in good hands. Minister Mitterlehner will do excellent work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the number of ministers is limited, it is also necessary to make restructurings. These were also carried out. I think it is absolutely essential that an own Ministry of Family and Youth was created. Today morning, at the appearance of our new family minister, we have really seen that she has a lot of energy, a lot of strength, many ideas go out for our families, for our society. So that was a very important and right decision for our society. I should like to make one more amendment from Mr Wittmann, Mr Mag. Mr Gerstl on the report of the Constitutional Committee (20 of the supplements): ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to The report of the Constitutional Committee (20 of the supplements) on Amendment 81/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986, is amended as follows: 1. It's going to be (a) in Z 4 in Section 17b, paragraph 17b. 26 Z 1 and (b) in Z 11 in the renewal order Each time the turn ‘up to 19’ is replaced by the turn ‘up to 21’. 2. In Z 11 (a) in Z 16 the turns of the "Society of Monument Protection" as well as ", the Austrian Phonothek and the Hofmusikkapelle" are removed; (b) the following new Z 17 and 18 shall be inserted after Z 16: ‘17. Matters of monument protection. 18. Public Bookkeeping and the Hofmusikkapel.’ (c) the names ‘19’ to ‘21’ are assigned to Z 17 to 19. 3rd. In Section E.Z.6 of Z 14, the word ‘youth welfare’ is replaced by the term ‘child and youth assistance’. Reasons The amendment aims to modernise some of the facts in a conceptual way. (ii) to ensure that the Community's financial resources are used as a basis for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13705	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13730	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, you are right or right if you say: Saving is right and important. However, saving right at the right places would be even better. In that case, you saved in the wrong place by saving the Ministry of Science, but also in the police reform, if I may address it. If you save 122 police stations, that's the wrong way. First, they have to make structural reforms and then save. That would be the right way. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Science and research are a prerequisite for a functioning economy, ladies and gentlemen, especially as a good economy. The saving of an independent science ministry is therefore a completely false sign for Austria's economic location. This decision by the Federal Government signals that you did not understand the need of science and research for a functioning, good economy in Austria. Fix this wrong decision, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government and ÖVP and SPÖ! We from the Stronach team, the new economic party, will give you the opportunity to fix this error with our motion for a resolution which I shall subsequently make. [[Abg. Pendl: To super!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, support Let me ask you this question. You're doing something good with Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13790	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13854	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13875	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated citizens on the gallery here and in front of the screens! NEOS is a citizen movement, a movement that stands for active citizen participation. Every citizen, every citizen can think, talk and decide with us. We select our candidates by pre-election. We work out our programme with broad involvement of members, friends and interested citizens. Only in this way will politics become interesting again, only in this way can we let politics – and this is our conviction – become a positive place with design power again. Well, why do I remind you? – Because the government, the SPÖ/ÖVP government is apparently not of this opinion. You once again damaged this place politics. They have no interest in involving citizens. They prefer to go through laws, as last in the tax-amendment law 2014. A full two-week assessment period was provided for. This does not allow for a serious discussion of the subject. Open public communication with people in this country looks different! [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] In doing so, I say, you violated the recommendations of your own constitutional service. The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office recommends an assessment period of four to six weeks – not two weeks. If it is not voluntary, then we must legally anchor the assessment period and thus the involvement of citizens and civil society in that country. NEOS therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you are not afraid of democracy! Trust the citizens in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e13942	Ladies and gentlemen! The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14000	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14021	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, the colleague Schieder said that this Federal Ministerial Law is not crucial to the work of the government. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: No! You didn't listen to that!]] That you want to play this down, my colleague, is clear. I have listened very closely to you, Mr Schieder. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Then quote correctly!]] And I have also listened to your colleague, Mr Lopatka, of the ÖVP, who spoke of savings in this request for the Federal Ministry's divisions. Yes, why is there then, I ask you and ask you, two State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance?- Oh, my God! [[the speaker turns towards SPÖ and ÖVP series]] It's so new, ladies and gentlemen, like getting dressed in the weather house. This form of government, ladies and gentlemen, is really a pattern of the great coalition. It is not about the foundation – and this has been claimed by some members of the government parties – of a structure to address the challenges of the future, but it is mainly about the internal coalition balance of interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: It is ultimately the people in the ministries who decide!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are concerned with covering lines between the coalition parties on the one hand, but also with covering lines within your own parties. And this clairvoyant, ladies and gentlemen – it is better not to express it – the ÖVP has sacrificed a whole ministry of the future, namely that of science. In order not to disturb the regional balance, it was not a Carinthian, but a Tyrolean Minister of Agriculture. Within a short time, he had to decide, otherwise it would have become another. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not the criteria that are really suitable for the selection of members of a federal government. But also the SPÖ, Mr Schieder, had to hurry to bring this government to the stage, because you wanted to share the basis with you too, inconveniently. In an original vote, your members wanted to vote on your government participation, but this democracy has, of course, been unpleasant to you. That's why you also had to get the whole thing over the stage quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! It was not about the creation of this government to find the best minds, but about questions such as: Is he coming from the West? Is he coming from the east? Is he coming from the south? Is he an unpleasant man or a woman? Does he represent that or that clientel? Is he stupidly more than 50 or even stupid, Mr. former Minister of Science, over 60 or thank God below? That, ladies and gentlemen, was the criteria by which you have compiled this federal government. If these criteria have been agreed, then one has quickly formed a ministry or a State Secretariat. If these criteria did not vote, we simply abolished it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The insatiable forethought with which they have carried out this is also the reason why we will not approve of this request for amendment of the Federal Ministry Act, both liberals and many other Members of the High House, including Members of the Government Party. This form of government, ladies and gentlemen, is no sign of new governance. It's the old, draped big-coalition knit patterns. They have had in mind many interests in this form of government, but most recently only the future of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14118	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14140	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, who are watching us! The personal games, the Bundesländerspiele, the alliance games, which have led to strange abolitions, mergers and new compositions of different ministries, have been discussed several times. I would like to address a ministry in which such a strange merger has taken place, namely the new Ministry, which is to be responsible for foreigners abroad and for foreigners in the country. And that, in our opinion, is a fatal sign. In fact, we have been further: two and a half years ago, when after years of calls, petitions, appeals, demands were finally created an integration unit. This is what we have here in Parliament and also in public honoured accordingly, by saying: Yes, integration is cross-sectional matter, but also at the same time: Yes, integration has to do with all of us, and above all: Integration has to do with people living domestically and not abroad. And now this federal government is going, explains the theme of the future “integration” as a personal hobby of the young politician Sebastian Kurz, this agenda is un- to the arm and says: You're going to be Foreign Minister now, so please take it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's not going to work, because these are very non-special areas. The Section for Integration, which you have created, which was simply taken into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will unfortunately be a foreign body and remain there. But what is at least as bad is the fatal signal that comes from this fusion, signaling people, namely migrants and migrants and their children and children: Actually, you have nothing to do with the domestic, you are actually a foreign matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Integration has to do with living together, has to do with working together, has to do with going to school, and above all has to do with bringing this country together and together. Migrants and migrants are, even if they have one or another citizenship other than the Austrian, no foreign matter. And just to say: We are doing something for foreigners there and for foreigners there, which is actually something that affects people living here and their children and children abroad. And that's, as I said, a fatal signal. That alone would be enough not to agree to this Federal Ministerial Act. Unfortunately, there are a number of other reasons that many previous speakers have raised. That is why we will not be able to agree to this Federal Ministry Act. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14213	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 20 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Excuse me, I just see, the wrong pages have been presented. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the draft law in 20 of its supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment or amendment tabled by Dr Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Dr. Strolz, colleagues. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment concerning paragraph 1. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment to paragraphs 4, 11 and 14. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 18, 21, 23, 28 and 29. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the integration of educational universities into the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on the creation of a Ministry of Education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Franz, Mr Hagen, Mr Hagen, on 'Self-Employed Science and Research Centre'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on the legislative establishment of a four-week review of government documents. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[13:21:13]] 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 98/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the salary law 1956, the contract staff law 1948, the Richter- und Staatsanwaltungsdienstsgesetz and the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz (17 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the State Contracting Teachers Act 1966 and the Land and Forestry Law on Teachers of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Land and the Laws (18 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14403	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting on point 3. I call on the rapporteur, Mr Singer, to present a print error correction on point 2. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14428	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! "I will bring the following print error correction to the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 98/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the salary law 1956, the contract staff law 1948, the Richter- und Staatsanwaltungsdienstsgesetz and the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz (17 d.b.) before: Article 4 of the draft law annexed to the Committee's report shall be deleted immediately after the entry into force of paragraphs 1 and 2. The following paragraphs 1 and 2 shall remain unchanged.’; This correction has become necessary because the draft law in the Committee was based on an overall amendment which has not been duly taken into account when making the decision in Article 4. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14455	Thank you very much, rapporteur, for these remarks. Mr Lausch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14479	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to make a motion for a resolution by Mr Lausch and other Members on the appropriate increase in salary and attracting public services: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Chancellor's Office Minister, is invited to ensure that officials of the public service have a modern working environment and an appropriate corporate culture, in particular a salary increase above the inflation rate, each with 1. January of a year shall be ensured.’ [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what we would be doing. I would like to start with these salary negotiations, which concern the public service. It was colported in the press that this would be an average degree of 1.88 percent. Of course, you can't say that. This would only have been so if, as is usual – and was always or most common – one had retroactively with 1. In January, the salaries of public servants were increased. But that's not the case, it's only with 1. ==References== So you come up, you count it up to the year, on a slippery salary increase of 1.57 percent. Of course, from today's point of view, it must be said that, when the Public Service Union negotiated this in December and could not agree – since then the trade unions have changed a little; that was your predecessor – an offer of 1.7 percent was presented. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Ostermayer]] If one had already been completed in December, that would have been better for our national servants, for the staff and they would have gotten more, because then it would have been the increase already by 1. Well, yes, as it always is. Now you've applied this trick. There is nothing that can be blamed on the Chancellor's office, because he did not actually negotiate badly for the Federal Government. But it is questionable whether his entry was so good for the public servants now. [[Abg. Pendl: Very good!]] Mr Pendl, one thing you have to say: It is very interesting that red and black staff representatives in the Federal Offices have been running around in the past few days – they are getting less and less – and the staff are questioning how satisfied they are with the salary. Why do you do this when he's been so great anyway, colleague Pendl? – You have bad feedback all the time, I can tell you now. You can believe it now or not, it is. It is no one so stupid, can be pulled over the table and has not understood that here was completely, very badly in the sense of the federal servants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why do the red and black personnel representatives do this now in the Federal Offices? – Because 2014 are personnel representation elections. You will of course get cold feet again, see yourself abandoned from your red-black so-called government policy and try to save what can be saved now. They know very well that in November 2014, they will be entering the next stroke, just as they did in the National Council election for the two system parties Red and Black. The citizens can't be sold stupid anymore, you should take note of that. I also believe that the Chancellor's Office Minister – new to the office – has done nothing good by trying here to pull the officials or government officials over the table by closing with 1.57 percent and increasing the number only by 1. March's coming. That is really incredible, but unfortunately God is. We will refuse this request for this reason. Of course, we want – and this is also seen in our request – that the public servants – no, wrong, Mr Pendl! – reward properly and appropriately and are not fooled with a hat trick: [[Abg. Pendl: Zero-earner round!]] 1,88 is colported and 1,57 are it. This is not the way to deal with public servants in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14553	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14633	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14654	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Sometimes I mean, there is something like a selective perception or one forgets what has been in recent years. A few issues have been raised today, Mr Lausch, to which I have to say something. I have had the honour of having to conduct salary negotiations with a responsible blue chancellor and with a blue finance minister. So don't tell me what's already been done for payroll. And if Mr. Klubobmann's street is here and says how weak we're standing at the police, I can only remind you: Under your government participation, FPÖ, 3,000 executive planning posts have been rationalised. Thanks to the Faymann I and II government, we have already brought together more than 1 000 planning posts in the last government and more than 400 administrative staff from the post office. [[Abg. Listen, you're lockin' the guardrooms!]] This federal government looks at its staff, and let us not be mistaken here, Mr Lausch: What is true is true! That is why the Federal Government deserves respect and thanks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it is a long tradition that I always thank the public officials in the context of the discussion on salary negotiations for their commitment. And don’t just say “Bund”, it was negotiated for federal, state, and local authorities! I do not forget the level of the Austrian local authorities and thank all the colleagues who are here working for the Austrians. This must also be possible in the context of this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also thank both members of the government – each of us knows that there has been a change – both at the Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek, but of course also at the new Federal Minister Ostermayer. I believe – and Mr Lausch, I have already said this in the Constitutional Committee – that in the past years we have already brought all the facets of salary negotiations behind us. You just need to look at that. But the fact is – and I am glad about that – that social partnership has been taken into account for the smaller incomes. It was completed with a median value, i.e. within the mass of staff – with a special arrangement for local staff, as there are even smaller income providers there – we have a spray from 2.5 to 1.5 percent. It must be said that this federal government – but also the negotiating partner, the union – has also looked at those who are more difficult in society. In addition, I believe, the social compensation which has also been taken into account here is also used. I'm really looking for things to be the way they really are! I should also like to make an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] Anyone who is familiar with this content knows how future-oriented this amendment is, as this Federal Government is already taking into account those who in reality are not yet enjoying it. That is why I really invite our fellow Members to agree, because it does not mean zero. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e14722	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15069	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15090	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there were difficult negotiations, but on 17 May, it was not possible. There was an agreement between the Public Service Union and the Federal Government in January. It is a degree which refers to the year 2014, starting from March, but also to the year 2015. In 2014, the lowest salaries are increased by 2.53 percent and the highest salaries by 1.55 percent. This means that lower incomes are increased by 1 percent more than the highest salaries. The conclusion is therefore higher than the inflation rate for small earners. And for 2015 it was agreed to pay the full inflation rate plus 0.1 percent from March onwards. That is to say, full of cost-effectiveness. On the one hand, the Federal Conference of the Public Service Trade Union approves the salary conclusion by a large majority, and on the government side it is pointed out that the salary conclusion for 2014 is almost budget neutral. So it has succeeded in achieving a fair increase and a budgetaryly acceptable result. wage negotiations are always about compromises. The example of negotiations with the official union in the last two rounds of negotiations shows what good results can be achieved when both sides move together. That is why I join with Mr Pendl's thanks to the government negotiators, Minister Ostermayer and State Secretary Danninger, with all the employees, and to the representatives of the Public Service Trade Union, chaired by Fritz Neugebauer, for the very constructive and objective final rounds of negotiations, which eventually led to the positive outcome of the negotiations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The work and services of the public service are always seen very differently in the public. For me, it is clear that an OECD study, the Economic Cooperation and Development Organization, has been summarized in the Standard: "Austrian officials are not the privilege riders as they are often presented in the public debate. The domestic state apparatus is not as inflated as it is often claimed, and citizens are generally very satisfied with public services. () The figures on citizens' satisfaction with their administration are remarkable. The work done by the police, the school system and the justice system has significantly improved Austrians than the citizens in the other OECD countries, and the health system is satisfied with even nine out of ten citizens, which is one of the highest values of all industrialized countries. () The figures on remuneration and employment in the public sector are also interesting. In Austria, 10.7 percent of employees work for the state (including federal states and municipalities), while in the OECD section this figure is 15.5 percent and has not changed much since 2001. Ladies and gentlemen, a very good witness is being given internationally to the public service in Austria. Thanks therefore to the snowplowers, to the nurse in the nursing home, to the teacher, the policeman, thank all the public servants of the federal, state and local authorities.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15142	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15163	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! The salaries of the public service are adjusted this year under the inflation rate. They also say loss of real wages. That is, the average of public servants has less money in the wallet than last year. Now I don't know, Minister of State, whether I should blame you. You are the representative of the Republic, who in this case is acting as an employer, and you have not negotiated on the trade union side. It's clear to me that maybe that wasn't your job. Nevertheless, one should not ignore one thing: Public service must remain attractive, and the attractiveness of the public service is of course also an attractive payment. When we look at the past few years, we already see that now more often the salaries in the public service have been saved. In 2010, there was an adjustment below the inflation rate, in 2011 a steady adjustment on average under inflation rate, in 2012 again a staggered adjustment on average of inflation rate, last year, 2013, a zero wage round, this year you are again on average under inflation adjustment and next year there is inflation adjustment with a narrow disk extra sausage on it, which is the plus 0.1 percent. In other words, the public service has made a significant contribution in recent years to rehabilitating the budget. But you must not lose sight of the goal. And our goal is to get the best in public service as well. We want the best teachers. We want the best kindergarten teachers. We want the best financial officers. We want the best doctors. We want the best nurses. – I cannot list all professional groups, it applies equally to all. And therefore, the payment with this claim, that we want the best, should also be in a certain relationship. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm here to reorganise the budget. You have to ask the question why the budget is to be rehabilitated. What can a nurse do for the bank package? What can a teacher do to ensure that there was an economic package? What can a financial officer do to ensure that we have inherited the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank with the giant budget hole? - Nothing. In the medium term, therefore, it will be very useful to put a little emphasis on public officials. They all have to pay their rent on the 1st of the month and dispute their livelihood. No question, you can at the moment thank God most of the time, but a reasonable salary development, which is in relation to the inflation rate, is in my opinion already a command of the hour if we want to keep public service attractive. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will nevertheless agree, because a rejection would mean that the officials will not get anything at all in the end. But the appeal for the future, the goal is to keep in mind the attractiveness of the public service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15212	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15233	Mr President. Minister! High house! I'll take it right away: We will agree because the officials have got something to do with it. They have already had a zero wage round in 2013 and of course suffer the entire service life under it. We must not forget that there are not only officials with high salaries, as you can see on average, but there are also small contract staff who do not even earn €1,000. Ladies and gentlemen, this is grossly negligent if we do nothing here. You have to say that quite clearly once. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As of March 2014, according to this draft law, salaries are on average increased by 1.88 percent, with lower incomes receiving 2.5 percent. This is the right step for us that the little ones who already have low salaries get more and the big ones, who sometimes earn more than a national council member, get less. That's where the little ones should be made better. That's the right procedure. This was also the case in an earlier government that the small salaries were raised above average and the big ones were not at all or little. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the executive in this context. The executive service law – you know – has been a major concern for me for a few years, and that has its reason. If I then return to the Executive Service Act which I have already filed during the last legislative period, since he has lost his validity after the end of the meeting, I would like to justify this as follows: In Austria, we have the worst conditions for executive officials, salary and pensionable. Let's look beyond the borders: In Germany it is country case, in Switzerland canton case. When I look at Liechtenstein, Baden-Württemberg or Bavaria, which borders Austria, or when I go to France or Italy, I see: The executives are much better off than we are. That means they have higher salaries. With us as executive officer, we have the salary of an auxiliary worker, but we have to do the work of the prosecutor's office in the first instance. This is an injustice, ladies and gentlemen. - That's not wrong. [[Abg. May. Gerstl: Not all!]] Mr. Col., take a look at this. I'm executive, I'm sure I'll know. The next problem: We have executive officers who have a basic content which is very, very low. Everything is based on allowances. If the overtime is now saved and you actually have to do overtime, because you cannot survive at all, then explain how you, as a single earner in Bregenz, want to pay a three-and-a-half room apartment that costs more than €1,000 for your family with €1,200 net – and that as a thank you for holding the skull. We've seen this weekend when the left chaots hit the cops, and everything comes out. I think the money used there would have been better invested in executive officials. I would like to say that this system of allowances is extremely unfair. If you get sick, you'll get the €200 net. It can't be. Ladies and gentlemen, feed a family with €1200, if the apartment costs more than €1,000, so you are no longer viable. This should be changed, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Executive officials in Austria should currently retire at the age of 65, everywhere in Europe it is so that they can retire at a maximum of 60 years, as the service, which is extremely hard and heavy, is taken into account. Finally, I would like to illustrate this by an example of an executive: Here in Vienna he started his service yesterday at 1 p.m. Today at 7 o'clock in the morning he was on duty, and at 8 o'clock he has to stand outside until we finish debate. If that's at 24 o'clock, he'll be outside until 24 o'clock – and tomorrow at 7 o'clock in the morning he'll be on duty again. - Is that fair? Is that human? Is that justified that we are exploiting these people? – I say no!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15302	The application submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15366	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15387	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! We will agree to the request because we believe in principle that these terminology and legislative adjustments make sense. I also like the fact that the Greens are once again involved in the topic of annual working time model. We will, of course, go along with this, which is a very important issue. We will support and stick to every hook that is thrown here. But, of course, in the medium term – I would like to say that too – we do not need a state teacher service right. Why not? – Of course, we want to strengthen autonomy. That is, in the medium term, we need a framework collective agreement in Austria in order to come forward in the field of education. We should free ourselves from this corset, which allows much too little movement in schools. School development needs movement. School is a living organism. At the moment, we do not have a good framework for this movement, and therefore I am pleased that the issue of autonomy in this House obviously enjoys a consensus at least at the level of Sunday's speeches. I am just coming from a vote with Mrs Heinisch-Hosek and the educational speakers. So all the political groups here in the House believe that we should strengthen autonomy. I am pleased, and I think it is also true that we are all now undergoing this exercise of duty. What does that mean? – The Federal Minister has promised that in the next few weeks she will set up a separate group in which we will become active in order to find out what package of measures we can adopt together. This package of measures must, of course, go beyond the government programme. I'm sure you can't leave the subject out there, that's where something has to go! All international studies show that those countries that have invested in autonomy in recent years and decades have made progress. Of course, as friends of self-reliance and freedom, this is a passionate topic of the heart for us. We say that we want to eliminate the flaws of schools, we want to give them freedom of design, we want to give them responsibility, and this, of course, also in matters of service law. What exactly does that look like for us? – On three central pillars in particular, there should be this freedom, responsibility: On the human level, that means there is perso- nal autonomy for schools. The teacher, the teacher, is hired by the school. The director, the director, will be appointed directly at the school on the basis of a public hearing, also on the basis of a joint decision-making of the School Community Committee and the Agency, which would be in the case of federal, country or municipality. The second autonomy column is clearly the financial autonomy for us, otherwise it would be a circumcised autonomy. The third pillar is pedagogical autonomy. Of course, we must have a variety of pedagogical concepts. We want differentiation. This is also the offer to the ÖVP, which is why I think you should do that totally. You always come with differentiation. I'm also confident I've been having a conversation with Reinhold Lopatka. I shall also be tabling a motion for a resolution today, but an independent one, we do not have to vote on it today. I think we should take our time. I don't want to hate it now, the subject is too important. But he took this away and said that he will check whether one can make a model region in Tyrol or elsewhere. I also notice that the SPÖ is open when the ÖVP is interested, and therefore I am just good things that these approaches are also awakened to life. We have to get in the way. We are willing not to exhibit the subject too much, but simply to make a determined move forward without frowning it day-to-day. That would be my wish: More space for design and more responsibility for schools! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15443	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15464	Minister! We are concerned that, like we did in the discussion on the law of the teachers' service, we are submitting here an amendment tabled by Mr Walser and his friends. It has been distributed; I therefore only want to explain it in the basics. In principle, we are concerned that it is clear in the future that teachers certainly have longer periods of presence at school, but at the same time we note that longer attendance does not necessarily mean longer lessons. That's the central point. We want a modern teacher's right to service and pay. The discussion is under way. They have all learned how violently the teachers are being discussed here. I really ask you, in the sense of a joint debate and in the sense of a joint decision-making, to put a little less pressure on teachers and to take a little more action on what is called for by teachers. This is not always identical to what the union demands. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I think we are all well advised when we are looking at the situation in the workplace more closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15506	Ladies and gentlemen! The application is submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the mandates. It is sufficiently supported, has been explained in its main guidelines and is therefore considered to be properly applied. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15779	Mr Ostermayer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15800	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to start with Mr Hagen. I have now looked at what group he belongs to, but I'm sure it was Team Stronach or Team Stronach. [[Abg. Kirchgatterer: That's not so safe! It always changes!]] This is interesting in that I can remember that in the election campaign of the then top candidate Frank Stronach, the annual salaries of public servants are reduced by 5 percent until, in total, 25 percent of the costs have been saved. [[Abg. Hagen: By the administration!]] - No, I don't. He told us about the salaries. There was – I could tell you afterwards the newspaper, it was on a Sunday – a big interview where exactly that is what happened inside. So I'm a little surprised that you're now demanding a clear increase in salaries. [[Abg. Hagen: Not from the high salaries!]] But I am also surprised at other speeches. Mr Steinhauser has, as it were, held the plea that there should be more increase because of the security of purchasing power and so on. I can get him a lot. I would then wish I had a constructive opposition that it would also be said where to save in return. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we believe that we should have consolidated budgets on the one hand and on the other hand make proposals for additional expenditure, then it is always wise to say where the corresponding savings are to take place. Pay or different areas, such as science, research et cetera, play against each other and at the same time demand a consolidated budget, which is a bit transparent. To Mr Lausch I would like to make another comment before presenting the model in detail: Yes, there was a debate level of 1.7 percent in December. Yes, we agreed in January to 1.88 percent on average. For employees, 1.88 percent are, of course, better permanently, because it also increases the basis for future increases in what is then increased. So permanent are 1.88 percent, even if it starts in March, of course for employees the better situation. We had a job, and now we can say that someone who wants something good for the employees on the one hand must be careful that the budget will not be exceeded, that is a relatively complicated situation. I think that is exactly these two parameters that we have had to pay attention to in these - as Mr Singer said - difficult negotiations. It was very, very intense negotiations. I was at the negotiations in December too. Before that, she led my colleague Heinisch-Hosek, and we then negotiated very intensively with each other this evening or that night in which we agreed. But I think we have found a very useful result that we have finally achieved in consensus. Now to the details: It was agreed that from March 2014 to February 2015 all salaries will be increased by 1.4 percent and additional € 14.50 and that the allowances will be increased by 2.02 percent. This staggering, which I have just mentioned, means that the lowest salaries at the federal level are increased by 2.41 percent, about 2.5 percent, and the highest salaries by 1.55 percent. So it's a span of about 1 percent in between. The high salaries are raised slightly less, the low salaries are raised slightly more, also significantly above the inflation rate. This is always the discussion: Are we talking about the inflation rate in the past, or are we talking about the inflation rate forecast in this year? That's 1.7 percent. But I come to another point: We have also agreed on a second part, namely to the municipal staff. Although these follow the model in principle, apart from this division, there is an increase in salaries by 2.3 percent to about €2 700 and then a cover of approximately €62 is taken. This is another form of social staggering. In principle, we have reached consensus, both with the Public Service Trade Union and with the Municipal Services Union. The goal of achieving a homogeneity in the salary accounts as far as possible, we have sought, but we have not been able to achieve very well, because Vorarlberg had already completed that before. But we did it a lot, and if my information is correct, Tyrol has already joined the federal union yesterday. We did something second: For the period from March 2015 to the end of 2015, we have already completed an additional round of consumer price index plus 0.1 percent. As in the past, the basis for the consumer price index is the last quarter of 2013 and the first three quarters in 2014. Therefore, I believe that this is a moderate but generally very positive conclusion for all employees, especially by the fact that we increase the allowances by 2.02 percent. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my predecessor in this area, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, for the negotiations that she has held until December; my colleague Mr Jochen Danninger, who also conducted the negotiations with me this long night; and, of course, the staff in the section, in the cabinets, with me, but of course also with Mr Danning. A total of another note: Those who do not vote actually want a zero wage round, because that would be the consequence if we did not decide to raise it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15877	Mr Hagen spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15901	Mr President. Minister! High house! I'm actually correcting: The Federal Minister described here that Frank Stronach had claimed or said that officials should have 5 percent less salary for five years and this would make up a 25 percent reduction. - That's wrong. [[Abg. Wheeler: 6 percent...!]] In fact, Frank Stronachin told his interview that officials who have become superfluous in their current job and then are no longer needed – that is not the case with executive officials – should have and be promoted a salary reduction of 5 percent a year when they accept a job in the private sector. That has been the correct statement, Mr State Secretary, and that certainly does not concern the executive. [[Call the SPÖ: “Mr State Secretary”?]] – Ah, Minister, sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e15962	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law, which amends the salary law 1956, the contract service law 1948, the judicial and public prosecutor's service law and the state teacher's service law, into 17 of the supplements. Mr Pendl, Mr Singer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a print error correction presented by the rapporteur. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on, taking into account the correction of the print error. Mr Pendl, Mr Singer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 and 2. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on the appropriate increase in salary and the attracting of public services. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, fellow Members, on 'Improving the situation of executives by means of a separate executive duty'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the State Contracting Teachers Act 1966 and the Land and Forestry State Contracting Teachers Act in 18 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment amendment concerning Rule. 1 and 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:07:08]] 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 112/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues concerning a federal law on the authentic interpretation of § 13a para. 2 Tobacco Law 1995, BGBl. No. 431/1995, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 120/2008 (19 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16118	We shall now proceed to item 4 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Mückstein has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16145	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear spectators and spectators! With this authentic interpretation, guests are expected to cross the smoking room in a restaurant in the future. The Greens will not agree to this project for formal and content reasons. First I come to the formal: An authentic interpretation five years after the enactment, which goes so far away from the intention of the legislator, is actually an affront against the rule of law. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Yes! The 2008 Tobacco Act guarantees non-smoker protection against smoking and smoking – with some exceptions – and the Administrative Court has actually strengthened non-smoking protection in June 2013 and has determined that non-smoking people should also be able to reach the bar and to the toilet. So, and now it's about: Actually, you are torpedoing an obsessive decision with this authentic interpretation, at the call of the Chamber of Commerce! In the sole interest of the gastronomy, another exception is now to be created, allowing the gastronomy not to have to rebuild. In this area they have a big problem: It is said that 12 000 gastronomy companies have already invested €96 million in renovations. However, the representatives of the Gastronomy Section in the Chamber of Commerce themselves are responsible for these miscarriages because they have recommended that the gastronomy not force non-smoker protection, but that these conversions be carried out. This project does not bring legal certainty – and that would in itself be the intention of an authentic interpretation – on the contrary, it will bring legal uncertainty. It is already true that 86 percent of the gastronomy does not comply with the requirements and requirements. Another exception will bring further legal uncertainty and further infringements, no question at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Wittmann]] Another such toothless provision is not only designed to increase this bill. It is also deeply undemocratic, because you know two thirds of the population, two thirds of Austrians want non-smoking protection, the absolute, complete non-smoking protection in the gastronomy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No, this is not the new policy you have promised citizens: The Chamber of Commerce is ordering its laws in Parliament! I think that's actually an excruciating thing, and you have to ask yourself: How much power should the Chamber of Commerce have if it is able to rule out decisions of the Supreme Court? [[Abg. New builder: social partners!]] That's exactly that pure lobbyism and this client policy that hangs out to the Austrians! [[Abg. New builder: But there are the greens in it, in the Chamber of Commerce!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nor do I think it makes sense that this issue, which is a health issue, has been removed from the health sector, especially since Minister of Health is Stäger for continuous non-smokers protection. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: what he already said!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] He advocates a general ban on smoking. I am of the opinion, unlike him, that there could be a majority in Parliament to do so if you were prepared to lift the force of clubs. No one wants this unreasonable, prolonged chaos anymore. For non-smokers, complete, absolutely complete protection against tobacco smoking is to be ensured, for good reason. They all know the figures and facts, passive smoking is, according to WHO, a significant health risk. Worldwide, 600,000 people die of passive smoking each year, and many diseases are associated with passive smoking. I don't have to list everyone now, you know. According to the Federal Ministry of Health, 14 000 people die each year in Austria from the consequences of tobacco consumption. One more thing, and that's what hurts me very much: A quarter of our 16-year-olds in Austria smoke! This brings us again to a sad conclusion in the EU. I believe that we do not need to philosophise about prevention and something like that when the policy of young people presents such a zigzag course in such an important matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16247	Mr Wittmann came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16269	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Minister! High house! First: We don't create a law. To your formal objections: We don't make a law! It is the regulation of an authentic interpretation, and I consider this instrument to be a very rarely used instrument. I am now 15 years in this house, and it has not yet been used. I think historically this can be traced back to about 1970. It is a question of authentic interpretation of what the legislator wanted in relation to an interpretation of the administrative court based on his own case law. This option is given in the regulation of § 8 ABGB. That is, interpretations can be made both the supreme court and the legislator. This interpretation that you can cross a smoking area on the way to the toilet was aware of the legislation. We were aware that this must be possible, because it is not different in many places. That is why we can interpret what we were aware of in legislation. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why don't you write it directly into the law?]] We make this interpretation today, and that is something quite different from a law. The second is: The state must also remain reliable! I myself am non-smokers, but I am committed to the fact that people who rely on a law that is based on a law we passed in 2008 can also rely on this confidence if they make investments in relation to this law so that they can also earn back the money they have invested in the law on the basis of this trust. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am fully aware of the fact that I myself would be in favour of a clearer regulation, namely a non-smokers regime. But the state must be reliable, and I am here a representative of the state who must look for these laws, if they are misinterpreted by a somewhat unsuccessful interpretation, to be corrected by an authentic interpretation of the one who made this law. I am in favour of this regulation, even though I am personally and personally convinced that we should discuss the need to introduce an absolute non-smokers regime. But people have to be given the chance to earn back the money they have invested in in a certain period of time. For this I stand, and I think it would be good for us not to throw people into the ruin by interpretations, but to prove here the reliability of the state.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16331	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16352	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker put it to the point: It is about protection of trust and the rule of law! That is why we are here today: not because we are amending a tobacco law, but because of the need for citizens to rely on a law that has been adopted here. This is what we want to ensure by means of this regulation, a hundred percent. This is the crucial point, and there is no difference, ladies and gentlemen, from the Greens who are these citizens. It makes no difference whether it is a gastronomy or whether it is a consumer in the gastronomy. It makes no difference whether it is an executive or an employee in the private sector. Every citizen here has a right to the rule of law, and we want to ensure it in this situation. That is why I must reject your statement, Mrs Mückstein. They are talking about an affront against the rule of law – I am speaking here of the safeguarding of the rule of law, exactly the opposite! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to make it quite clear to all citizens and not just because I would like to make an amendment to this and that It is also necessary to read this proposal as such so that citizens can get an accurate picture of the fact that the Tobacco Act is not now being amended. We decide here that § 13a para. 2 Tobacco Law according to § 8 of the General Civil Code is interpreted authentically to ensure that guests are able to pass through the smoking room on their way to the main room or to other smoke-free areas of the local area, such as sanitary facilities or toilet facilities. To this end, I would like to make the following amendment tabled by Dr Peter Wittmann and my colleagues to the report of the Constitutional Committee in 19 of the Supplements on Amendment 112/A by Mr Dr Peter Wittmann, Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues concerning a federal law on the authentic interpretation of § 13a para. 2 Tobacco Act: The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: ‘The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: In Art. The following sentence shall be added: ‘Art. I shall be applied by the authorities and courts in all ongoing and future proceedings in accordance with § 8 ABGB.’; This is important to us so that an interpretation problem does not arise in ongoing proceedings in individual courts or individual authorities. We are fully aware that § 8 ABGB now applies retroactively, namely since the entry into force. That is, this provision, this authentic interpretation now applies with the adoption of the 2008 law. So that there is no difficulty in interpreting this law, let us add that sentence now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] We want to explain once again that this sentence has become necessary because for four years the authorities responsible for the enforcement of the tobacco law have decided in one direction and all the gastronomy have been able to rely on the fact that, in this form, it is correct how they have invested, and now, after four years of the administrative court has for the first time departed from this ruling practice. This makes it necessary for us to return to what was the will of the legislator in 2008. Therefore, there is no change to the law, but non-smoker protection remains, as provided for in the 2008 tobacco law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16448	The application submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16515	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16536	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We will agree with this authentic interpretation with abdominal pain, but without exuberant enthusiasm, because the Freedom Party continues to stand up for the freedom of choice for the host. It must be easy for an innkeeper to be free in his entrepreneurial freedom whether he wants to conduct his local as a smoker’s house, as a non-smoking local or as a mixed local. That's the first thing I've ever done. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We will agree, because we are very specific in this respect, to the side of the host who, under difficult economic conditions, which have not really been facilitated by this Federal Government in recent years, need legal certainty and legal certainty. Those 42 percent of Austrian host operators who have invested more than €100 million in order to comply with the provisions of the Tobacco Act, which you have decided in 2008, need legal certainty, and we give them today with this interpretation. It's important to me that we make this clear today. The refusal of the Greens to allow this interpretation of the 2008 opinion is quite interesting, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, agreed to this law at the time. [[Abg. New builder: Oh!]] Now, if your opinion is clarified at the time, I wonder why you are doing a child-moving – but we are used to that by the Greens anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have also walked around for decades and have demanded a discount price of 20 Schilling; and now, where we have it, you don't want to know anything about it either, because you realize that the people who can't afford the ride to work are not as good at all. So this double-beddedness really doesn't fall on fertile soil here!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16583	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16606	I am a non-smoker myself and I hope that many people will also have a healthier lifestyle in the future. In North America, by the way, hardly anyone smokes, and the young people don't think that's cool either. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] So I think there will be a general ban on smoking in Austria anyway, because I believe that health awareness is simply going in this direction. That is why, in my view, the issue of legal certainty is much more relevant to me. What are the many hosts in our country to think about? There are constantly any changes in regulation, always associated with a huge effort for the host, where they once have to insert a glass wall, then a sliding door, then a total reconstruction, now the question of the toilets, so the questions do not stop at all. What's next? In any case, one thing is certain: There are enormous costs to the host, and unfortunately there is no legal certainty here of God. There are so many regulations – and now I am again on my topic of bureaucracy and overregulation of all areas of life with us – and they meet, I believe, especially the host. There are not only the rules of the various Austrian levels, but also of the EU level. There is a danger that an EU food card will soon come across our hosts, which will then have to list what is to be found in the European unit gullasch. I mean, that's the wrong way. With so much bureaucracy you simply can't be competitive. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As for tobacco, I would simply like to say: The tokens for various snaps are guaranteed by the host, and I'm sorry. But the real main reason for my speech in this case is a plea for red tape and legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16647	Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16668	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! I do not think I need to get into the legal area anymore, because my predecessors Gerstl and Wittmann have made this quite clear. We know this is about legal certainty for the host who invested a lot of money. But I would like to come back to practice. We know that in Austria we have a very clear “non-smoking law”. But we also know that there are exceptions, and one of these exceptions is in the locals. It is said again and again that Italy, Germany and other countries have much clearer, better laws. If you look closely at these laws, however, you know that there are very clear exceptions in these countries too. The colleague from the Green Group, Mrs Mückstein, said earlier that it is sad that so many young people under 16 are smoking. – They all know that smoking is not healthy; I think we all agree. But it's wrong to believe that the host is guilty of the young people smoking. We all know that we cannot solve the problem through the host. We know that there are exceptions in Germany too. For example, in Hamburg or Berlin, all small locals and beeslsls in which no prepared spei- In this case, the Commission may decide to refer the matter to the Court for a preliminary ruling on the We know that in Slovenia, smoking is prohibited and smoked in all the places in which the food is fed. There are also very clear derogations in Italy, a country in the field of non-smokers protection. A decree has recently been drawn up in South Tyrol, where the legal situation is as follows: Over half of the locals must be smoke-free. You can also set up several locals where you can smoke. In Austria, a restaurant needs an eight- to twelve-fold air circulation in order to satisfy the business regulations. In Italy there is an even stricter edition: Where smoking is allowed, an 18-fold air circulation must be given to do the laws enough. So we certainly have a liberal law, and we know that we do something good for the host. We know the habits of the consumer, the guest, that he is staying where he wants to stay. I am sure that in the future every host will address the consumer. We know that the legislation is such that every hotel, including in Germany, can set up a smoking lounge. We know this can't do the little pub or the little inn. There's a need for equality. As I said, I'm 100% sure: Let's not always try to tell people what to do with laws! We always talk about self-reliance, and you can believe me as a practicing host and hoteler: The host and the hotelier are based on the customer and the consumer. He will do what the consumer requires of him. I would like to thank you very much for this broad majority for the repair and legal certainty of the host. That smoking is unhealthy, we all agree on that. What we take in our hands to achieve that the young people no longer smoke is something else. It's just a trick to get the problem of smoking under control by forbidding pubs and hosts to allow smoking. That's a trick, we agree on that. Nevertheless, we should continue to deal with smoking, but not at the expense of the host! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16723	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16745	High house! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Say hello to God! I think we're waging a proxy war with this smoking debate. There are things to be done that should be solved better. That smoking doesn't do us good, we all know for many decades. That's what the powerful citizens know, the patients know. I do not think there is a need for such bans in Parliament meetings or in other forums or to set up and declare zones where smoking can be done and where not. I think that we should focus on the knowledge and education of young people in particular and do much more there than is done so far. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is not good to work around in a country of powerful citizens with bans. First, there are bans on remedies and smoking, and the next one will be alcohol or any other food or other things that we would like to ban. I don't think that's a good development. A good development would be to tell people and explain what is healthy, what is less healthy and what is harmful. I think the decision to smoke or not to smoke should be made by each individual himself. And if the education, the attitude of individuals is so advanced that they know what is good for them, then they will also decide accordingly. Then we don't need a state that dictates everything with a raised index finger. This is a very bad development! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Legal certainty has already been mentioned several times. I think it should be a Parliament's label, a National Council, that it also grants legal certainty to the people on whom it imposes laws. Among my as well as certainly also your circle of acquaintances and friends are also hosts and restaurant owners who have invested a lot. If people have invested a lot of money in accordance with these strange, suffocated laws that we have developed and now a total ban on smoking, then this is simply unfair and not okay from the legislator! In my opinion, this smoking debate and this smoking law, which is so hateful, is also a symptom of Austrian legislation, which is always being tried to reach a final conclusion with compromises, small derogations and a little squabble. This is always corrupt in the back and at the end it is so that you have to go back to the debate. It's much easier to stand up and say we're making clear laws in the areas where we need them. We do not need laws in many areas, but rather more education, more attitude, more self-determination of the individual. This is the most important thing from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16808	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 19 of the Supplements. Mrs Wittmann, Mr Mag. Hiezu. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment relating to Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:34:57]] 5. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 82/A by Mr Dr. Peter Wittmann, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the Election of Members of the European Parliament (EuWO) (21 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16884	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. In order to make a print error correction on point 5, I would like to give the rapporteur, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl, the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16906	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following correction to the report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 82/A by Dr. Peter Wittmann, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Election of Members of the European Parliament (EuWO) (21 d.b._Other Organiser The last two points on page 4 of the draft legislation annexed to the Committee's report are not 6 and 7, but 18 and 19 with the following content: 18. In § 77 para. 7 is replaced by ‘5 %’. 19. Paragraph 91 will be added to the following paragraph. 11 added: ‘(11) Section 15 para. 2, 24 para. 3, 31 para. 3, 4 and 7, 39 para. 2, 46, 56 para. 3, 67 para. 2 Z 10, 67 para. 3 Z 10, 67 para. 7, 70 para. 2, 72 para. 1 first sentence, 72 para. 2, 72 para. 4, 74 para. 3, 75 para. 2, 76. Abs. 3, 77 para. 7, 91 para. 11 and Appendix 2 as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. XX/2014 shall enter into force on the end of the day of the rallying.’; On page 6 of the draft legislation annexed to the Committee's report, the correct number is not 8, but 21.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16943	Thank you very much, rapporteur. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e16967	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This item on the agenda is about two amendments to the European electoral system, one of which is a change in favour of votes, and the other about a correction in the election of letters. The first part, this change in the preferred votes, says that if you get five percent of the votes of your own party as preferred votes, you will now be preferred. So far, it was seven percent. We welcome this amendment. In the past, there have been very rare cases that there has been a premise. A prominent example is Andreas Mölzer, our member of the European Parliament, who did this. But this obstacle has been felt too great, also by us. That is why we support it. Unfortunately, this change was linked to a change in the choice of letter or correction in the choice of letter. Here we have a fundamentally different approach than most other parties here in Parliament, because we are convinced that the election of letters does not comply with the principles of electoral law. Let us remember the great effort we are making in choosing to deal with them correctly. We have a electoral commission in which all the parties are represented. We have a constituency; you have to go to the constituency to give your vote, So you can't open that up. And then it is placed in the constituency; the constituency is sealed and is only opened at 5 p.m. after the end of the electoral process. So this is a very big effort, quite right. You seem to have concerns that something could happen. You want this to be checked. And this should be quite correct so that the population has the feeling and also knows that such a electoral process is handled correctly. At the time of the letter election, all that I have told you now is not true. The principles of electoral right are precisely that we have a free, secret, unimpeded, personal right to vote. That's not true. We do not know who really makes the declaration of will at the time of the election of the letter. There is a signature with which the one who explains that he has given this voice himself, but if he is influenced, is put under pressure if someone makes it for him, then this signature is also done. So we don't know who really makes this declaration of will. We don't know if it happened secretly, if anyone watched it. We don't know if it was free either. Remember that no posters may be hung up in elections, as they are now being handled, 50 meters away from constituencies, so that we are not affected. But what about the choice of letters? There can be any influence during the election process. So none of the electoral principles is met. Then this ticket comes to the authority, and then it is there. It is not there sealed in a constituency, and it is not members of the Electoral Commission who look for nothing to happen, but we really do not know where it is. She's on an authority, and we don't know what's happening to her. I don't put anything here at all, I'm just saying: The legislator has considered something that he has set such high standards in an election process. The choice of letters does not apply to all of this. That is why we are convinced: The choice of letters should only be possible to the minimum possible extent, namely for Austrians from abroad and those Austrians who are proven to be abroad during an election process. All the others can vote in favour of another electoral commission with a vote that is also available. Then again all the conditions apply: free, secret, unimpeded and so on. Every Austrian has the opportunity to go to a constituency, even if he gets up in the early morning, walks or else does something and travels all day long. Everyone can and can divide. We therefore believe that this is the right way. It is always said that the choice of letters is a success model. That's what I'm asking myself: What is the success of an election process measured? That he's particularly sure? That he's comprehensible? That confidence in him is particularly great? That the standards of the electoral process are particularly high? Or is it just about how many votes are even cast? As I have already explained, the choice of letters on the first points is clearly not a model of success, on the contrary. And if we assume that this will give more votes, I have to say: Not even that is recognizable. In reality, in recent years the participation in elections has been even lower, despite the election of letters, it only increases the proportion of the voters and, of course, the proportion of those who vote under non-safe conditions. How important it is that the population has confidence in a electoral process, you can see in other countries like Ukraine or also in states, sometimes perhaps The third world, which is very likely to question whether the electoral process was correct, where there are then demonstrations and where there is no confidence in the state and where it is said: That seems to have been manipulated. We therefore call on you to go this way with us, to return the choice of letter as such to the minimum and to choose other ways so that the population can give its voice as far as possible, but not on this unsafe path. Therefore our rejection here, because this was linked. We are in the process of further development of the right to vote. There are also very complicated rules now, even in favour of votes, as we have now noted. Many don't know what to do with it. It is difficult even for someone who has to do with it, to see how the preferred voices are to be forgiven. So there is certainly a need for change, as we are involved, just as in other discussions on the change of the right to vote. Finally, my appeal, with us on account of this justified criticism, is that the principles of the right to vote are not respected in the elections to make a change in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17050	Mr Wittmann came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17071	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The reason for the amendment now being made was actually a new EU directive, which brings massive improvement to individuals. So far, the individual had to teach a certificate from his home country that he had not lost his passive right to vote in a country that was not his home country. With this amendment of the directive, it is no longer the individual with his State, but the State in which he takes up his election must now take care of the certificate with the home country. I think that this is a service provided by the state to the individual in order to guarantee the right to vote, and I think this is a very good rule. This is the adjustment that was necessary. In addition, we have reduced the percentage of valid party votes required for pre-arrangement from 7 to 5 percent. This is a significant improvement in the right to vote in personality. At the same time, we have streamlined the deadlines of those in the National Council election and also recorded an emergency notification of the preferred votes, so that we will have the preferred votes on Wednesday after the election and not have to wait two weeks. In contrast to my previous speaker, I think it is a good achievement if the electorate cards can now be placed in every constituency, because that is a service to the citizen who wants to exercise his right to vote. If there is a technical and organisational possibility, I think this is a very good extension. I have the following request to make. [[Quoted print version removed]] In the first point, a linguistic error is corrected, and the second point is the change in the regional constituencies which has become necessary due to the change in the regional constituencies in the Styria – that is, not a substantial but necessary change that has been made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17138	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17197	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17218	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! We will reject these changes in the European electoral system, but we may see a few positive points that I would like to make. The changes in the choice of letter, that the electoral card can now be issued in several places, and that the instant messages allow for a faster achievement and faster publication of the result, are of course welcome. But – and we have said that about a year ago, when it came to the new rules relating to preferential votes in the National Council election order – we think a mere reduction in the preference voting burden is a case of a wrong and far too short-sighted. On the one hand, we have the situation that we are dealing with different obstacles here when we look at the various electoral orders at different levels – European elections, national elections, country elections. However, we have some differences in the various countries too, I would even say that there are scurious electoral orders. As an example, which is probably known to you all, I would like to bring Lower Austria, which is the only federal country with the rule: The preferred vote is party preference. That means in concrete terms: For example, if someone chose the SPÖ and Erwin Pröll gave a preferred voice, then the vote does not count as at all other elections or at all other levels for the SPÖ, but for the ÖVP. [[Abg. Jewel beaters:... a reform! She's already with the notary!]] A recent knowledge of the Constitutional Court of Justice, which unfortunately did not go out in the sense in which I would have wished for democracy, but it is to be accepted. But, of course, it is an inescapable state to have different electoral orders with different interpretations and results in Austria. The new obstacles – 5 per cent in the European elections and then those down to the National Council elections – are of course the result that people no longer know what it's all about – sometimes tick it out, sometimes enter it – and when someone gets a preference vote or not. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] But our core accusation, which we made a year ago and which I am now again presenting, is the question of the impact of these preferential voting systems on the composition of parliaments, particularly on the question of how many women and how many men are represented in the parliaments. At the time, we received very clear opinions from the Constitutional Committee – for example, Dr Ulrich from the Institute for Legal Gender Studies in Linz has clearly demonstrated, the women's ring has also mentioned this and there are numerous international expertise – that such preferential voting systems lead to the fact that the proportion of women in parliaments is falling. Of course, that's not the only reason. I also do not want, so to speak, just to give the preferred voice the responsibility, but it is with one aspect. That is why we proposed a year ago, a possibility that could be discussed, would be to give up two preferential votes and at least one of them should be given to a woman. This discussion has not been continued, but it is already so – and I would like to remind you: We are all committed to the principle of equality and, in the context of this principle of equality, we need to discuss democratic instruments and, above all, voting rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, there will now be commissions on direct democracy and probably on election rights, and I believe that the discussion on strengthening the personality elements in democracy and election rights must be seriously and not simply shortened by reducing or lifting any obstacles, but one really has to ask such questions as: What significance should parties still have? What significance, what influence should voters, members of their own, sympathizers have on the elaboration of these party lists? Where do there need to be clear other rules in favour of votes? The green answer to this is: These must in any case be in line with the principle of equality and should not result in the fact that the proportion of women, as it has been happening in recent times, continues to decline. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17269	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17290	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Our common house Europe is not yet finished, and we are all called upon to build on this common house. This means that the political institutions that build on this House must also be politically legitimate, and that is what the European elections are all about. May. The European Parliament, which has gained more co-determination through various provisions and is becoming more important in the game between the Council and the Commission, is elected. If 380 million voters are called on to shape the fate of more than 500 million citizens, it is important that we also innovation the right to vote, and that is the subject of this novel. It was also addressed by my previous speakers: Taking into account the wishes of the electorate, it is necessary to say, on the one hand, by personalization, that is, yes, I can directly choose my candidate, my candidate – therefore we lower the obstacle to make it more attractive to give preference votes – and on the other hand, by implementing the choice of letter. Of course, the concerns expressed by the previous speakers must be taken into account, but the fact is that, through various professional situations, family circumstances and social developments, the choice of letters makes sense and the aim must be to allow people to vote in order to legitimise the institutions, in the case of the European Parliament. Let me just say what it's all about. May is not about cucumbering. Of course, there is much to be criticised by the European Union, and no one accepts things without When and But, but especially in the commemorative year – 1914 First World War, 1939 Second World War, 1989 East opening – one has to say: Europe is a peace project. This is taken as a matter of course by many people, but the fact is that not far away people in Europe need more co-determination. I can quote a comment from the “time” that comments on Ukraine. That's what I'm saying: The future of Ukraine will probably be decided on the road – the question is only whether with further deaths or without. Something like this: The Ukrainians killed are the first civilians to have been killed under EU flags. This community is worth so much to them. What about us? - Quote. That is to say, we must continue to build this common Europe and therefore also take part in the European elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17341	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17363	I would now like to focus on the preferred votes. Mrs Musiol has given an opinion on this. I think that's the right way. I believe that this reduction in the obstacle is very useful, but one should also do something for this instrument to be more adopted. Since, I think, deficits have also been observed in the last National Council election. It has been a little more complicated and confusing. It was time too short. It may be some threshold still too high to apply it. This should be corrected here, and therefore, I think, this is an order that shows the way in the right direction rather than others. What you have said on the election of preference would be contrary to the free and secret election. That's how I'd see it, so I can't join it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol.]] But otherwise, I am in favour of our agreement now, because in all cases this is a relief, brings more personal right to vote and brings us a great deal further forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17402	Mrs Steinacker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17423	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated EU citizens! [[The speaker makes a candle entitled “A Light for Peace. Peace candle 2014’ and a picture of the flag of the European Union on the speaker's desk.]] In the speaking time I have, I would like to take a brief look at the amendment we have tabled. 40 years of peace, enough reason to be an enthusiastic European. - That's what Alois Mock said. In the meantime, it is almost 62 years of peace and democracy in Europe through our European Community. The European Parliament is our great opportunity to participate as a citizen in this policy. Therefore, my very clear call to all, on 25 May. May to go to the election, to benefit from democratic rights and to vote there – or even better to stand as a candidate for EU elections. I would just like to say to Mrs Musiol: I do not believe that we have a problem with the reduction of preference voting to 5 per cent that women are not elected to the European Parliament, but rather I am sure that many women will take up and that their commitment will also receive many preferred votes. It is up to us to support this commitment. In any case, I will make my contribution to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17463	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now try to bring the vote to a close on time by 3 p.m. I therefore ask for your attention. We shall vote on the draft law in 21 of the Supplements. Mrs Wittmann, Mr Mag. Hiezu. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a print error correction presented by the rapporteur. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, taking into account the correction of the print error. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment which concerns the amendment to paragraph 14 and the insertion of a new paragraph 16 and the resulting amendments to the following paragraphs. If the amendments are approved by the rapporteur, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, which have not yet been voted on, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. I am now interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17547	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:00]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance concerning even more billions for the Hypo Alpe Adria and again less money for science and education (502/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17586	We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 502/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17839	I give the floor to Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek as an applicant for the reasons for the request. This must not last longer than 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Club Chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17860	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Finanzminister! Today we have the opportunity to talk urgently about one of the largest financial debacles in the Second Republic, and it is the first opportunity for the new Minister of Finance Michael Spindelegger to speak and answer Parliament here, how he intends to deal with this financial debacle. Mr Spindelegger! They are now the fifth Minister of Finance of the ÖDP in a row. For more than ten years now, the ÖVP has been shaping the financial policy of the Republic of Austria and thus also the handling of the Republic of Austria with this largest financial debacle in the Second Republic, namely with the Hypo Alpe Adria. From my point of view, it will be possible either to bring about a trend change here and to make a very clear commitment to the fact that the past policy was extremely wrong and only maximized the damage, and perhaps to take a new course, which is not only fairness for the banks, but above all fairness for the financing of education and training in Austria – or simply to continue the path that has been taken so far. We know that we are talking about a sum that will now account for € 10.11 billion; a four-member family in Austria is thus burdened with over €5 500. Just to avoid misunderstanding: The root of the evil is, of course, the liberal system in Carinthia, but today we are discussing the handling of the black finance ministers and the further planning – and from my point of view that is planless to this day – of this problem. I would like to turn back briefly in history, to bring the chain of serious failure in this area to the fore again. From 2003 to 2006, the Minister of Finance was on an ÖVP ticket Karl-Heinz Grasser. He has re-structured banking supervision and made his closest cabinet staff the head of banking supervision. No wonder that when the hypo-blaze was blown away in Carinthia, this inconceivable growth of the bank with all the criminal processes that have been done around it was quite intense. Next came Wilhelm Molterer, 2006 to 2008. I say it now in a certain evil: the inventor of file blackmail when it comes to banking interests. Just at the time when it actually became serious and interesting in the Causa Hypo Alpe Adria, the Banking Investigation Committee was turned off. The red BAWAG was negotiated in the Committee before, and then turned carelessly. Previously, there was the transfer of blackened files to the Banking Investigation Committee. And then came Josef Pröll, 2008 to 2011, who is responsible for the emergency nationalization of the Hypo Alpe Adria, of which we know today that it was a harmful solution for Austria, where you refuse to do so to this day – but perhaps there is a change of course here – to actually explain, first by an investigation committee, what actually happened on that night of emergency nationalization, with which the Minister of Finance was extortionable, or second, to allow Joseph Pröll's charge to be charged to the Court of Auditors. A clarification of these processes is necessary, and if you do not allow it now: They won't stop the story, it'll be clarified sometime. The Bavarian Landesbank was able to buy itself free with 825 million, the country of Carinthia with 180 million and the Graz mutuals with 30 million €, and the Republic came to a huge liability mountain. As I said, you may be able to delay the investigation, but do not prevent it. So, and then in this chain of serious errors and in the chain of failure, the control failure then came Maria Fekter, 2011 to 2013. And it has been proved – not only have many experts said, but also we in Parliament have repeatedly pointed out – that this bankruptcy, which has taken place here, has further dramatically increased the damage to the Republic of Austria, to the tax-paying people. These years of slowing down tactics in terms of hypo cost the tax-paying people, the entire population now € 1 billion, according to Johannes Ditz. Here again, I would have been interested in how you evaluate this statement. For months, the refusal to finally bring about a resolution bank, to outsource the lazy loans, to finally reduce capital requirements in order to sell the good parts of the bank. Their refusal, by Maria Fekter, was also one of the reasons why hypo-supervisory councillor Johannes Ditz threw the towel. Today, we know that this was also due to electoral tactics, which are clear reasons for voting, namely simply concealing the famous budget hole in the election campaign. The budget hole was nothing but the bank hole, and you have actually taken it up to further increase the damage to the people of Austria in order to lead an undistorted ÖVP election. This is not new, however, because many things that took place in this election campaign have taken place under the motto: The truth is not reasonable to the population, but is to be kept away from it. I recall the promises: no new taxes, no detachment of the economy; we are never talking about that. Now, at once, tax increases according to your own statements, Mr. Finanzminister, are alternativesless. And I've already been very surprised, because this sentence that was always attributed to Margaret Thatcher: There is no alternative! to hear from a black finance minister in connection with tax increases, that already has something remarkable. So this tactical change of direction is obviously a principle, but today and here you have the opportunity to take a new direction, namely to take responsibility here at last and show a way to solve this problem at last. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we are not good things, even me. I have the legitimate suspicion and the concern that you will continue this course, and that the tactics, if possible not a good decision for the tax-paying population, for the total population, I say to make that you want to continue this course, that you continue to rely on delaying tactics and that you will not put the facts on the table in full transparency either. Just today you have announced that there will be another billion euros for the Hypo Alpe Adria. It is particularly remarkable, on the same day that an independent science ministry is abolished, to announce another billion euros for the Hypo Alpe Adria. This very meeting also shows your completely wrong set of priorities over the past years, the lack of love for the education system, the lack of commitment, really with all the strength – and that, in my view, is the most important task for a finance minister in this and the next decade – to be freed for research, for development, for education, for schools, for universities. This is the key and key question for innovation and security for the young generation in the next decade. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So is a decision now being made on how to proceed? Is there soon a decision on how to deal with the Hypo Alpe Adria? Following this urgent procedure, the budget procedure will be decided, and the budget for the bass will be astounded public, including for us Members, still the old sum that Maria Fekter has hired, namely the cost of the Hypo Alpe Adria for the year 2014 at € 133 million. I find this very strange and very remarkable. Where is the required transparency, also required by the Federal Constitutional Legislator, on matters of careful budget planning? At the same time, you'll announce a billion. So this is going on, this game of concealment, the delay, the lack of transparency!Unknown term type: "%s".? And please also give a proper answer to the wear costs: 1 billion € in additional damage to taxpayers by pushing the decision! You have the opportunity to do so today. So, and then we come to another very remarkable Causa, namely the Causa of the opinion of the consulting firm Oliver Wyman. This isn't the one from the Rolling Stones for the elderly in this house. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: It's called Bill too!]] It's called Bill, thank you, exactly! That was the wrong word for you now, I think, but good. This study was obviously commissioned by the Ministry of Finance – by whom else? That means she was financed from the tax pot. Now let me explain why this is not possible to disclose and discuss a study financed by the tax pot. Why is it hidden? – I thought these things belong to the last century that citizens are simply not treated at all. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] According to the survey, exactly one variant in this study is to prove to be the most favourable for the taxpayer and for the budget, which does not come exactly as a variant in the narrower selection. And now you have to explain this: There will be an opinion commissioned, that will not be published, that will not be discussed publicly, the Members of the Budget Committee will not get it, the Task Force variants will not be discussed, and then exactly this most tax-efficient variant will be excluded. So that means that this path is further undertaken, that it does not really matter how much the damage to the taxpayer is, but that it is only about statistics, about the beauty of statistics, about the beauty of the Maastricht deficit?- Oh, my God! I believe it is clear that the lazy loans and the costs of the Hypo Alpe Adria are now clearly assigned to the Republic of Austria, by all market participants. That's no longer a question at all. But what makes me so affected and so angry in this causa is, I say it again: The main task of the Minister of Finance is to ensure that our future is assured. And future security means investment in education. And if, on the other hand, we hear the first plans of you in the matter of budget provisorium, namely to reduce discretion expenditure, to cut down on science, to cut down on research – today again a call from the Council for Research and Technology Development, which recently points out that there is a gap of €400 million per year that is missing in order to achieve the self-esteemed goals of this Federal Government in the field of science and research – then that is very, very unfortunate. This is extremely unfortunate, for what can we actually give our children and our youth other than a good education? Certainly not another drag at the Hypo Alpe Adria. The whole budget is subject to financing. The entire Government Convention is subject to a reservation of funding. That is to say, everything that is positive in this government agreement on education, the development of all-day forms of schooling, the promotion of language, the transition from kindergarten to folk school, all of this is subject to a reservation of funding. Is this 1 billion € for the hypo also subject to financing reservation or is it simply fixed? That's the dilemma we're actually standing in front of. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And the dilemma continues. It is not only the lack of will to make financial resources available here and to use every effort to open up budget resources to make important future investments in this area, no, it goes further: As a politician, in that sense not as a finance minister, but as a politician, as an ÖVP party leader, they prevent important innovations in the field of education. There has been an inconceivably exciting discussion at the beginning of the year, namely that the federal states are starting individually to drive forward alternative models of the common school as model regions. What can happen if the federal states come from themselves and say, let us try to try out the common school for the 10 to 14-year-olds in a whole federal country like Vorarlberg? There's consensus there. There is even the Freedom Party for doing this once. Why Blocking Not only with the failure to provide missing resources, with a completely missing savings course, but also with ideological scams, are you still making these important innovations in the field of education? – This is another debate, and we will continue to do so at another time. But I am deeply sorry that exactly these innovative impulses, which come here and which are so important for a development in the area that is probably the most important for the people in Austria – there is, I believe, no area where dissatisfaction is greater than in the field of school and education – are so strangled by you. Eternal damage! Now I also take a little bit of SPÖ into the duty: To go to the dive station here and just not to say anything about these topics, because you don't want to interfere in any way with these now finally restored coalition peace, which is also very unfortunate. All right. We will discuss this even further. As Minister of Finance, Dr. Spindelegger, you have the opportunity today to comment in detail on these very central questions: When will the Wyman opinion be published? What way do you choose to proceed? Why Choose You're not the way that's the most tax-efficient? Why will you be unfaithful to your own Sunday speeches, where you have always stressed the importance of education, research and development? You have also done this in infinitely many election speeches! And now, in reality, the opposite is taking place. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then we still have an extremely indifferent tax increase package, an extremely imaginative package from my point of view, because I think that in Austria, with an objective view of our tax structure, one can very, very, very agree, that the tax structure in Austria is going straight after a reform. How many times have you talked about reducing the additional wage costs, reducing the factor of work? How many micro and micro-enterprises are moaning under fiscal shocks that are no longer necessary at all? How often did you say the word “down the entrance tax rate” in the election campaign? What about all of this? Now the population is faced with a €1.2 billion tax increase, without any structural reform being started. Mr Schieder is already in the opening holes to answer that question. Then I'll give him one more question: Why does the SPÖ have the whole election campaign to preach about: Inheritance tax on inheritances over 1 million, then we finally have money for education, money for the workers and money for care!, why did you not have the courage of the SPÖ to take that up? [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: They were always against it!]] Just as Haslauer of the ÖVP has once proposed, we are trying to ask the richest one percent more in Austria and invest it in a tax reduction, especially for the smallest workers. So that is inexplicable to me why precisely these discussions have not been taken up by SPÖ. I'll get you together. Mr Finanzminister, you can now continue this path of the chain of serious failure of the ÖVP Finance Ministers over the last 10 to 11 years, you can further delay the solution of the problem, you can continue to choose the most reasonable variant – or you can make a real direction decision here and now. And the second central point for me is: Finally, open the way for proper funding of our education system and also for innovation in the education sector!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17946	Mr Spindelegger spoke in response to the question. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e17967	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the questions, but let me make a few preliminary remarks. The truth is – you are right, Mrs Glawischnig – that we all inherited a huge debacle from the past, from Carinthia. A debacle that becomes the most expensive process of history in the Second Republic. That is clear, and I agree with you. Because what then took place as a result of an all-is-permanent multiplicity of the political Carinthian leadership is the reason that today's taxpayer's invoices are presented to the taxpayer about lazy loans, about projects that are not eligible for funding, and above all for liabilities of a federal country to an incredible amount of €25 billion, ladies and gentlemen! And this responsibility must also be taken over by those they received at the time. That's clear. I fully agree with you. ==References== In December 2013, the financial unit took over. I have immediately taken all the necessary steps so that the task force we have used can immediately start their work. This task force consists of all the experts in the country who can deal with questions of this kind: the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Hypo Dr. Liebscher, the current Governor of the National Bank, his Deputy Governor, the Chief Financial Market Supervisory Officer, the people from my resort who have to do with it every day, but also experts. This task force I have ordered to submit a final report immediately. ==References== A final report was presented by the Task Force to the leaders of the Federal Government this year. We've got this Monday, 27. Januaryen, the Federal Chancellor and I, with the relevant experts of the Task Force, discussed the results and also made a clear decision, namely that we follow the recommendations of the Task Force. And the recommendation number one of the task force is that we provide a participation model with the banks, where the cost of this debacle is de facto dealt with in a equity fund. I believe that this is, in principle, also a very reasonable solution, because, like at European level, where resolution units are intended to make an annual contribution to the provision of banks when banks are in difficulty and thus no longer burdening the state on their own, this development is also the right one in Austria with a prelude to the mortgage. However, there are, of course, conditions that need to be met: First of all, we need to negotiate with the banks themselves. They must declare themselves ready to contribute to such a fund. Secondly, it must also be clarified with Eurostat that this question is not fully attributed to the State, otherwise we have no advantage from it. And thirdly, the Bavarian Landesbank must also agree. These conditions are now under way, with negotiations, with clarification, so that we can hopefully make a decision in the next few weeks. If this is not the case, so if one of the conditions is not met, the next variant proposed by the Task Force will take place. We have here a cascade of four different options that will be examined, and we will stick to what the experts have proposed to us. But what I absolutely reject is that what you are now blaming me and my predecessors in your urgent request is de facto the responsibility of the Minister of Finance or the former Minister of Finance not to have acted here. Ladies and gentlemen! This is green polemics, but that has nothing to do with the facts. I would like to make that clear once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Decisions cannot be shaken out of the sleeve. If you would always like to claim this and also express it in your urgent request, namely an insolvency scenario would solve everything, I can only refer you to what the experts have also presented to us in this respect, that this is not the case, but that we have to prefer a different solution, which is always under the order to bring about the most favourable for the taxpayer de facto. A second preliminary remark to the budget – also a statement in your request – is: The fact that the structural financing needs we have up to 2018, which is 18 billion, of which almost 13 billion are to be spent on the federal government, are not addressed is simply a skim. That's not true! Of course, all these measures will be addressed, ladies and gentlemen, but they will only be available in a budget 2014, in a budget 2015 and in a framework by 2018, which I will present to the House at the end of April. Of course, there will also be measures that will result in structural changes in Austria. But painful. I am already excited about whether, when it comes to pension issues, a green party is ready to join us and take responsibility, because it is necessary that we take all responsibility, and I hope that the other groups in the House will do the same. The fact that you are now blaming us for not finding that in the legal budget procedure, you seem to have not fully understood the legal budget procedure. This is the transition until a budget has been decided in 2014. I can not now present all the measures in the budget commission by 2018. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There is also a federal financial framework!]] This is of course natural, but until the 2014 budget is decided, there is a very suitable basis with this legal budget procedure, that we can meet the necessary challenges. Above all, in the legislative budget, reference is made to the fact that we have a new structure of the Federal Ministries and that we also have a basis for new ministers to assume their respective responsibilities. I come to the individual questions I would like to answer. Question 1: In November 2013, the Federal Ministry of Finance commissioned an assessment by Oliver Wyman on the impact of the outside assessment of the economic impact on economic scenarios for the reduction of Hypo Alpe Adria. Four resolution scenarios were examined: the maintenance of the existing structure, an institution solution, an investment solution involving the Austrian banks and an orderly insolvency of the Hypo Alpe Adria. Benefits and disadvantages of all these scenarios were shown in the assessment, with no final assessment of the decommissioning scenarios. On question 2: Contractually, a restriction was agreed with the creator of this assessment. Oliver Wyman views the chosen analytical, methodological and conceptual approaches and insights as his intellectual property. Clients are therefore obliged to protect this interest in presentations, methods and analysis techniques. Therefore, without prior written approval by Oliver Wyman, the BMF shall be prohibited from transmitting, making such documents available to third parties. Question 3: To this end, I would like to inform you: We have made this assessment available to the National Bank after the agreement of Oliver Wyman. In December 2013, the National Bank gave its opinion on this issue. Question 4: This assessment has not been passed on to other organisations, but has been taken into account in the Task Force. Question 5: As already stated, the forwarding is subject to strict rules, but of course any solution will require legal measures which will be submitted to the Financial Committee in the course of parliamentary treatment and will be discussed in great detail there. Questions 6 and 7: The Wyman assessment contains a qualitative assessment of the individual models, but a detailed quantitative analysis of the costs of each model is not included. Question 8: An analysis of the impact on the budget deficit and government debt ratio was not the subject of the assessment, so there is no explanation either. On the question 9: The volume of emissions due to Kärntner's national liability is as of 31. At a value of more than €12 billion in December 2013. Question 10: Specific documents, who holds the securitised liabilities of the Hypo Alpe Adria, are not available to my ministry. These are bonds that are traded. There are no central registers for this either. That's why you can't answer who did that. Questions 11 and 12: The significant follow-up effects of a hypo-Alpe Adria insolvency have been very detailed by the Austrian National Bank. However, I am looking for understanding that I cannot give concrete figures in order to safeguard the interests of the institutions concerned and of the other Austrian mortgage banks. On the question 13: The Bavarian Landesbank would definitely lose its existing refinancing lines in the Hypo Alpe Adria in the amount of over €2 billion in insolvency. Legal qualification as equity within the meaning of the Capital Replacement Act is currently subject to a dispute between the Bavarian Landesbank and the Hypo. For this reason, there is also currently a repayment barrier of the said refinancing lines. Question 14: ==References== In September 2013, the European Commission adopted its decision in the aid procedure Hypo Alpe Adria. According to the European Commission’s decision to grant aid, the marketable parts of the bank must be sold while the remaining non-profit parts are to be settled in an orderly process. The marketable units of the hypo must be sold in a transparent bidder procedure within the time limits set. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The SEE network is expected to run until 30. ==References====External links== If, by the end of this period, parts of the marketable units prove to be unsaleable, then the processing of these units must be carried out. For the period up to the conclusion of the sales process, Austria has promised and guaranteed a number of restrictions on new business, in particular with regard to risk control, in order to increase the chances of selling subsidiaries and to minimise distortions of competition. The Italy subsidiary of the Hypo, HBI, had to be put to work and has started the new business since the middle of 2013. Question 15: The conditions laid down in the Decision of the European Commission of 3 December 1990 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products and on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products In September 2013, the hypo-task force was set up. If a final decision is taken on a model, there will of course also be discussions with the European Commission. On the question 16: Of course, the intention of a bail-in and thus a burden sharing of the creditors is also included in the considerations of the task force. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who? Minister! “In what way” stands at 16!]] Questions 17 and 23: First of all, the relevant decisions must be made on the future design of the Hypo Alpe Adria. In line with this, the necessary funds will be taken into account in the draft Federal Financial Framework Act 2015 to 2018 and in the Federal Financial Laws 2014 and 2015. The around 133 million €, taken as an annual effort in the preparation of the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017, i.e. old, in which UG 46 is spent, essentially include a dedicated contribution from the revenue to the stability levy, as well as the funds for FIMBAG. This corresponded to the information at that time and is obsolete today. Questions 18 and 19: The next Federal Financial Framework Act for the period 2015 to 2018 is currently in preparation. I have already said that we will do so in accordance with Parliament's timetable from 29 December. This year we are dealing with the subject in Parliament. This is also true for the Federal Estimate 2014. As I have already done today, 1 billion € for the hypo will be estimated as an amount under caution. Question 20: The Task Force Report is a decision-making basis for the Federal Government. It is now necessary to hold these talks with the Austrian banks – I have already referred to them – under the leadership of the Head of the Task Force. On question 21: In the context of the European Commission's requested Burden Sharing, the Task Force also took into account all the possibilities of including the old owners of the Hypo Alpe Adriatic in the loss suffered. Questions 22 and 24: The Federal Government has the goal of achieving the medium-term budget target, i.e. the medium-term objective in 2016. The budget plans for 2014 and 2015 and the payment planning by 2018 will be drawn up in the coming weeks. The result and the various measures to achieve the budget objectives will be adopted on 29 October. ==References====External links== Questions 25 to 30: It should be foreseen that, since the entry into force of the second stage of the budgetary reform, the term “expenditure expenditure” in the Federal Budget Act 2013 is no longer used, so that the related expenditure can no longer be used as a reference size. For this reason, the total budget allocation provided for in the 2014 legislative budget framework was assumed from the total expenditure, excluding those whose payment, for example, is limited in laws and/or laws, such as staff expenditure. In essence, the non-to-binding exception catalogue largely supports the commitments of past years. Based on the fact that these are reference sizes for commitments in Section 3 of the 2014 legal budget, these commitments were estimated at around €500 million. Of course, the allocation of the commitments provided for in § 3 of the 2014 statutory budget budget according to sub-divisions is always addressed to the budgetary management bodies and must also be carried out on its own responsibility from there. Questions 31 and 32: “Model regions Joint School” are not a joint project of the Federal Government. Accordingly, there is no additional funding for this either. Questions 33 to 36 as well as 38: The specific allocations for projects such as flexible school entry phase, hourly quotas for individual funding, language intensive courses or specific resources of schools are, of course, the responsibility of the relevant minister and are also made or not made there, depending on the budgetary coverage. On the question 37: However, in addition to the €80 million so far annually, €80 million per year from 2014 will be foreseen for the expansion of all-day school forms. This will also provide the means to implement what is planned in the government programme on projects. Question 39: The quota for special pedagogical support needs to be set in the context of the next financial compensatory negotiations, which are also to be seen in the context of the comprehensive additions made available by the Federal Government over the past few years. At present, the federal government provides annual funding under § 4 para. 8 Financial compensation law amounting to € 25 million for structural problems and for children with special funding needs. On question 40: The budgeting of FERNSEHFONDS AUSTRIA from broadcasting and television charges is maintained to an unaltered extent. The budget for the Austrian Film Institute was increased by 4 million to 20 million in 2013. This corresponds to an increase of 25 percent, so that the future security of the film location also represents a corresponding increase in funds. Ladies and gentlemen! If I can sum this up: It is now up to us to make decisions regarding the Hypo Alpe Adria on the basis of the negotiations that are now being held. I assume that we will have a further report on the ongoing negotiations with the banks during February. And I assume that we are still deciding on a budget procedure today so that we can have the basis for the next step in this country for orderly finances. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18120	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18149	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! You don't have it easy; I agree with you. You have explicitly referred to the December day on which you took over the financial unit. I would also like to mention that in the new year you have tried to get in touch with the financial spokespersons, originally to hold a call – more or less unfortunately, but as expected, overtaken by the reality of the Hypo Alpe Adria. This is likely to be the main issue now, as we have just agreed. I don't know, I don't want to hide that either. However, I have already told you in this phone call that if you act as if the world had just been invented, it would certainly be possible to collapse in front of you if you were to look at this inconceivable – and as you yourself say – the second Republic's biggest financial debacle. That's true. However, it must also be remembered that it was not. Eva Glawischnig has already mentioned that there are a number of finance ministers, all of them from the ÖVP involved. I also told you that, first of all, because of a reasonable division of work here in Parliament, we will not be able to pass on to you between the government and the members of the opposition, which we consider to be real circumstances and developments, and also to ask for the right thing to do; also with regard to the failure of your officials to do so, which are, at least, all of your party. The following must also be said: The present head of government, that is you, but also the Federal Chancellor, whom I would like to involve here, you have always been sitting in the government, even in the last legislative period, when you have clearly received from us – and this is all proven – the evidence that has been omitted in this causa, which has led to damage, namely, the billions of damage. You can clearly point out here to this sector and think of Carinthia. [[towards FPÖ]] This is not wrong as far as the cause is concerned. But it is an art of its own that red and black in the Federal Government lead to a blue-orange damage from Carinthia in this way. In any case, we will also deal with this. But the overarching issue that we want to bring in here is another one. This is a risky attempt for a urgent request. We also discussed it, I admit. They have, addressed to our club lady, said that this plant is now already polemic, so according to the motto, as so much money for the banks and there actually little money or ever less, and can be proved, for science and education. What does that mean by “polemic ”? - You might say that's populist. I wouldn't even let that happen. It's just popular. It's popular, but at least so right. It's exactly what's been working and driving us for years: How can it be that very few profiters are being helped with a very large number of billions in a very short time, while a great many are left to hang in the fields of education and science for quite a long time? – That’s already the clamp and the connection that this is about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And the third thing we discuss here is: Why is this the only move which this Federal Government is still making, namely to support the banks? Why doesn't she set up an initiative herself? – This is the phenomenon of the standstill. This is the phenomenon – and there you also have to consider the party political constellation of this federal government – because now it is threatening that this standstill will continue for a few years. However, I believe that the dynamics will be such that you will all be moved away before, and that will be good. And it will be the task of the constructive opposition to prepare already this way with that you will be replaced in advance, not only to ask the right questions, but also to give the right answers now. And that's all right. Your standstill structure looks like the following in the fields of science and, above all, education and tax justice which we have included in these emergency situations: It is true that the ÖVP-Bundesspitze has for the longest time been forced by the national leaders – always by their own – so that nothing goes on. Their predecessors have failed to do so and nothing else. [[in the direction of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger]] Now it is for other reasons – let us put this aside – so that the national leaders already become innovative, especially those of the ÖVP, want another access to education policy, and finally – at least at least – that; with regard to the Austrian blockades in this area, it would be revolutionary – to introduce these model regions, large and closed. All the federal states are offering themselves, which is why I see the heads of state in terms of this matter positively. You want or can not do this at the top of the ÖVP, for whatever reason. But the perverse to this is that Chancellor Faymann is now jumping aside from the SPÖ, inceding the whole thing, because it is alleged that – and you have said so – it is not included in the Government Convention. Yes, if we only do what is contained in the Government Convention, then we don't have to sit here for five years, then we can go home after five months, because this is just a standstill threat. And now we have the situation that social democracy, only at five years – that is the plan – can continue to do with anyone, against their own convictions and their own principles – if there are those, but I assume this once – here the black vice-chancer and in this way contributes to the standstill. Five years you advertise and argue on tax pay costs that the common school has to come. And now that there's a chance, turn away, just so you can sit here silently for five years. But we will not let that happen to you! The same in the case of tax justice: A black head of state must come from the government groups, who says: Let us try it, it cannot be that we are the last of the OECD countries, that we have the highest rates for wage and income tax, but nothing happens in the inheritances! Let's talk about it, let's look at it. - A black head of state. What's going on? – A special crisis meeting of the ÖVP. I have already told you that you are leading me anyway, and after that you have also confessed, but this alone is too little, it also needs to be improved, and we are demanding it and we are going to do it in this area too. [[in the direction of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Strache: The sage is good, which is the difference between a SPÖ and an ÖVP event!]] As you are set up, you only produce standstill in all these areas, and this is to fight and get away. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] Now, when we come back to the only element of movement, which is recognizable, namely to send the banks behind the billions, I have to make a few comments on what you have offered here in the reply. My understanding is ending if you are constantly referring to this task force because here is a whole chain of failure of those who work inside it to be responsible. Let us call it the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Hypo Alpe Adria, Klaus Liebscher, by name. This is not happening here. He was the longest bank governor, at a time when the central bank also had the supervisory duty to the Hypo Alpe Adria, at the time when state commissioners were driving around, who threatened us, the opposition, with complaints, when we pointed out what was going on there, at the time when your predecessors sent the blackened files. All this is an amalgam of clumps, which I do not believe any more. The same people are not included in the Court of Auditors' Committee, nor are they talking about the Examining Committee, because you would not be able to do anything there. You, you can make Count Dracula a blood bank supervisor. I can't do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why all that is offered here is completely unbelievable. And if you rely on these resolution units, then the result can only be: sleep for years, at least two – as long as we are in the house – but Klubobmann Schieder, who will then speak immediately, did represent it! Sage Something about your “Kurier” interview from the election campaign. For two years you would have wanted to do this in autumn 2013 – Klubobmann Schieder now shows: three years! – these resolution units. But in the meantime, so much milk is spilled that soon it doesn't matter. In the meantime, the question is what is actually the next right way to go – and that's what you've assigned, but the proposals are hiding now because your friends are getting cold feet from the banks again; yes, that was the point. The question now arises whether, since everything is too late, you should actually see that you get a contribution from those who have benefited from this your years of mismanagement. It's got to be here once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You'll order it, and then hide it. You will find the results with the notice that the assessor raises the expectation of his intellectual property on it at once. This must be very bad if he remains alone with these findings. That's not what we want him to do. But it is the task and function of the client to agree on the conditions under which this can be done – and by the way, I would like to know how much tax money has been used for it – otherwise it is also the failure of the Ministry of Finance to conclude such a contract here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But don't stop Parliament from doing so, but you can reorganise this abuse, as this mismanagement is even rehabilitated. There are a few good suggestions – thank you! – and the proposals will go in the direction of minimising the damage to taxpayers. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] But you can't leave it alone, you've proved the opposite for years.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18247	I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18270	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's true: What we are discussing here is one of the most annoyed and financially painful chapters of Austria's financial history. Of course, everyone would like to spend this money for other things. But at the same time claiming that a bank would have been saved at the expense of education is wrong, because if you look into the current budget and also into the budgets of recent years, you see exactly the opposite. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Aha!]] In 2007, when compared with today, we have an increase in the education budget of 1.1 billion, and today we have 14 000 teachers more than at the time, who have been employed in addition. We have now again fixed and financed the expansion of all day schools as a priority in the government programme. In recent years, we have also been moving forward in the afternoon care and in the New Middle School. We have a school building programme by 2018, where €1.6 billion is in this area – for federal schools alone, as well as for national schools and other schools – creating 7 000 to 8,000 jobs in the construction and construction sectors. So we only have 22,000 jobs here when we count teachers, afternoon supervisors and the jobs created by investment, which have been created and safeguarded in the field of education. On the field of science: Let us look at the new economic university, which was first of all a financial point landing and the second at a huge leap forward in the quality of science, economics and thus also financial science, in the training of future generations. Yes, perhaps we should have invested in the past so that the Klagenfurt University site would have trained Jörg Haider in financial matters at least once, because then we might have saved the Debakel Hypo. We have to look back: In 2009, the hypo was not nationalised because the FPÖ in Carinthia has entered more than 20 billion liabilities for the country because it has invented it as a money slutter for the funtillas of the head of state, from sea stage to airline, to Formula 1 and all these stories. [[Abg. May. Darmann: This is so last-class!]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Who's last? With the SPÖ!]] And that's the drama we had to eliminate! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Get in touch with yourself, Mr. Klubobmann!]] In order to say that clearly again – here is the opportunity to repeat this –: The perception of responsibility has led to the fact that the bank has been prevented from pleading, because this banking pleite would have meant a bank run, would have meant that the savers would have lost their money, that the small companies in Carinthia, who had their account at the Hypo Alpe Adria, should have locked up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] [[Abg. Neubauer: This is just as true as the story of the red cap!]] This would have been an economic disaster for Carinthia, and we would also have had game-over effects on the financial sector throughout Austria and South-East Europe. And because of that one has decided to capture the mortgage bank. The second question is: How do you proceed after the pickup? – Mr Kogler is right, I have already said for a long time that if you have such a disaster and such a mess, it is better and better to venture the jump into the cold water, to deal with the clarification of the conditions and to dive into what is no longer safe, or to lock up what is ultimately not to be sold. But it is not right to say that nothing has happened at all. – A lot has happened in recent times: The bank levy has been introduced and increased in order to receive precisely this counter-financing, so that the average taxpayer does not bear these costs, but ultimately also contributes to the financial sector that has benefited from stability. Secondly, banking insolvency and restructuring law has finally been decided here in the National Council, and mechanisms have been created in the European Union with the introduction of the Banking Union or have begun to be created, so that in the future these issues may be dealt with differently and one can react differently. The minimum capital rules have been increased and national supervision has also been substantially strengthened. But to say that clearly: From the point of view of the SPÖ, it is also necessary to find a solution now, and to find a solution, a solution which, as a whole, keeps the costs of the State of Austria as low as possible as possible and, secondly, if costs for the State of Austria are incurred in the final settlement, so that the financial sector, which has ultimately benefited from the creation of stability, by the bank levy, makes its contribution and the costs for the taxpayer are as low as possible, if it is not even kept to zero. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] That's the important point. The Task Force has now analysed all the details, looked at what you can do there, several variants also presented, and now it is about making these decisions as quickly as possible, but of course after a detailed and intensive examination – you can't break that over your knees – to find a regulation also with the Bayern, which allows you to have the margin to make these decisions in order to make one clear: This bank has been saved because it has played out in Carinthia, and this government will quickly address this problem, even if it is painful.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18390	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18428	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Minister of Justice! The hypo case is also a case of justice. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance! The only thing that's right with this urgent request is: Yes, we found a financial debacle there, but not today and not now, but already in December 2009, when it came to this emergency nationalization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] And here you are trying to give the wrong impression as if this emergency nationalization, as you have referred to in your statements and also in the written statement of your urgent request, was a “privileged (...) “not nationalization”. This was not premature, but there was massive pressure at the time, and one was forced to carry out this emergency nationalization. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sure!]] [[Abg. By whom? From the Bavaria! The Bayern have made the pressure! Raiffeisen!]] No, because of these liabilities that I still have to speak to, due to these liabilities that were at the time at €24.7 billion – I will do this even more. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Your Bavarian party friends would have trusted this?]] Although the point was the transfer of ownership to the Bayern – that was one – but the liabilities did not pass. The liability has remained with the country Carinthia! – Yes, the outlaws, but they could have been beaten overnight. [[Abg. Strache: These are outlaws!]] [[Abg. Strache: But before that the Bavarian bank would be!]] That's the point. At that time, the country of Carinthia with a budget of around 2 billion within a few years, namely from 2003 of € 10 billion – that is to say, from 2003 to 2006 – you know who was the head of the state, who had the first responsibility at the time – the other parties were too weak to stop in Carinthia the drive of the head of state at that time. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That was the point. [[Abg. Go, please! They voted in favour! Your ÖVP and the SPÖ voted in favour!]] Yes, the SPÖ, too. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Stay with the truth, the ÖVP and the SPÖ have!]] Mr. Strache, that was not just the ÖVP. But a head of state has a special position due to the federal and state constitutions. And, of course, it was the head of state who used the hypo like no second who saw it as a self-service shop, and thus within a few years the liability framework, ladies and gentlemen, which was still at 4 billion in 2000, has increased dramatically, until 2003 not so huge, but at least to 10 billion, and then within a few years, namely, from 2003 to 2006 to 24.7 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz]] You see it here. [[The speaker points to his board.]] When the Bayern entered, this liability framework did not increase. [[Abg. Strache: Out of custody!]] He immediately went down, although first, that must also be said, the balance sheet sum has increased enormously. And you just want to move all of this away from the liberal side. [[Abg. May. Darmann: How did the balance sheet total develop from 2007 to 2009?]] What amazes me with the greens, and I tell you that, is: Either I want to discuss the hypo – you can do that as an opposition party; we have these minority rights that allow you to do so at any time – or I make such a forest and meadow request like this. [[Abg. Strache: Make it a committee of inquiry, which you reject! Finally, do it to the committee of inquiry you are preventing!]] I have not yet experienced such a urgent request: It is about the hypo, it is about the budget, the assessment expenditure, it is about scientific expenditure, it is about the field of education. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There is the money in there that is missing elsewhere]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because the money is missing there!]] And why the ORF is still coming in, I don't know, because then you could have taken in the entire budget at all. So you didn't think so much, I have to tell you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] In fact, follow-up You have a purpose: to distract as far as possible from what happened on Friday from your own problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know that very well. That too would have been worth being discussed here today, I tell you. And what you always want to ignore – and there you will meet again with the liberals – this emergency stateization, in the question you meet with the liberals, as sometimes the preparedness of violence meets again at some point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber]] [[Abg. Strache: This is almost a parliamentary network!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] At the time, I tell you, no one wanted this emergency nationalization, neither Finance Minister Pröll nor State Secretary arbitration, nor those responsible for the central bank, financial market supervision, and you have to let me talk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] That's always my problem: The calls always come before I can finish my sentence. [[Call the FPÖ: A taste of Mr. Wolf!]] I didn't want to. And I wanted to say, too, the Federal Chancellor did not want to do that, which at that time also came late at night. We were all aware of this drama. And now there's another one that I have to tell you, too: The pressure from the European side was also great. Why was the pressure great at that time? – We were in a situation other than now – we have already discussed this today. I could show you cover pages of “The Economist” where it was prophesied that the end of the euro had come. “Is this really the end?” was the headline of the “Economist”. And a Nobel Prizewinner, Paul Krugman, wrote: “Iceland and Ireland are quite bad, Austria could quickly “join” this third-country league. [[Abg. Strache: Iceland has long been saved! Island has long been saved with the right package!]] That was exactly the phase in which we were forced to carry out this emergency nationalization at a system-related bank – and at that time the hypo. [[Abg. Strache: The greatest untruth that can only be claimed! That's certainly a nonsense!]] The root of the problem is this action that was put in Carinthia at the time. [[Call the ÖVP:Haider!]] And there is no financial minister or the Federal Government responsible for this, I tell you! [[Abg. Strache: You released the Bayern from the responsibility! They put it on the taxpayer!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What the current Finance Minister is doing here is what to do is to act quickly, but to act properly, and to do everything that banks are involved. [[Abg. Strache: You went to your knees in front of Bavaria! Also in the Raiffeisen-Interesse!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Mr Kogler, I have not yet experienced such a polemic. They say we're putting the banks in the billions. But you know very well that the Austrian bank levy is one of the highest, if not even the highest in the European Union – the banks are burdened very much – and that we have already recovered the money from the first in high interest and will also pay high interest to Raiffeisen in this year. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: The highest! That's not our fault!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] That is why I say to you: We now have to find a solution – a solution which is considered to be necessary at European level too, where this bank settlement fund will also come – which enables our banks, which have been very successful in making use of the opportunities after 1989, to remain strong, because they were also crucial to the fact that our companies also benefited from the opportunities opened up to Austria after 1989 and that after 1989 we had a higher economic growth each year than the entire euro area and thus, in Austria, a lower unemployment than in all other countries of Europe. We need to see these overall contexts, and then we understand why we have been forced to carry out this emergency nationalization.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18796	Mr Podgorschek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18817	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! First of all, it is “net” that a ministry is equally occupied with three persons, while another ministry is reduced from two people to one. The government will know what it's doing, but I don't think it's making a good picture. Mr Schieder and Mr Lopatka, I know – for I have heard all this for years now – that you are building up your own world. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: You! You live in your world!]] No, I'm not building, I'm not living in my world. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Which one do you live in?]] I can then quote a few things, but then we'll come back to that. There is one possibility, Mr Lopatka: Let's make an investigation committee! Let's see what happened – and then we'll find out who's to blame! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS-LIF as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] I'm even so far to say it's also been a lot of debt in Carinthia and there's been a lot of happening there. But that's not a problem at all, we can work it up. But to define the need for nationalization as if it were the first and last possibility, from my point of view, it is rather in the area “I am building my own world”. You can believe that today – after what happened last Friday – I find it incredibly difficult to give the greens some justice today. Just, unlike some others, I try to make a policy of matters, and if someone is right, I give him the right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Rädler, I would not say that now! Madam President, have you heard what Mr Rädler said? [[President Mag. Prammer denied this.]] – “Pack beats!” – I don’t think that’s a fair way of speaking. That's where I expect a corresponding excuse! Now to the content itself. – I cannot imagine at the best of my will that a minister will conclude a contract on a study, and then he may not have the study free. So, Mr Vice-Chancellor, perhaps you have to explain to me why you cannot publish this Wyman study. For 30 years I worked in the private sector, of which for 28 years as an independent merchant, I am not a lawyer, but I would never have signed such a contract if I could not decide on this work myself. And a delay in the decision only costs taxpayers wealth, which is now perfectly clear to all of us – and I also think many arguments that have been put forward are correct – and it will be reflected in the budget. This will lead to a burden, and it is then entirely a matter of whether direct taxation comes about in the form of the bank tax or whether this is done indirectly. Whether the banks deliver this bank levy to the State or thus feed this one model or whether the bank's costs will be passed on to the taxpayer or to consumers and borrowers at the end of the day only the taxpayers will pay. One thing's clear to me: They are trying to find a way to prevent the budget from exploding or to increase public debt in addition. We will see how far the European Union is playing. But from my point of view, this is only the secondary problem. It will be decisive for us how we get out of this dilemma as cheaply as possible. And, of course, we also have the problem of reorganising the entire banking system in Austria. We still have an ÖVAG, which has not yet been addressed, and the municipal credit has not yet been negotiated. And if I look at what the future banking union requires of us, it becomes clear that we will have a lot of problems with the banks in this respect too. We will have to deal with a number of issues relating to the capital resources of these banks. Now, for me, the central question – and that was what Mr Lopatka said: Why did Federal Minister Pröll light the Hypo Alpe Adria? – I mean, of course, I can only tell you about the hearing, but a witness says that the Bayern came with, I don’t know, 10, 12, 15 lawyers were fully prepared, everything was known, while on the side of the Austrian Federal Government Federal Minister Pröll just returned from vacation and, accordingly, one only thought that these were, more or less, just negotiations. And if I have to “swallow such a pub” today – I put it quite consciously – then the minimum I do is a due diligence test to see how the status quo is. In other words, take care to carry out a risk assessment. – I don’t think this happened in one night, but you have been pulled more or less over the table. And it is quite interesting to follow the newspapers a little bit, not only the first two or three pages where the big policy is being dealt with, but also perhaps a little further behind, which is about pending court proceedings. The following can be found yesterday's issue of a daily newspaper: This newspaper reports on the process in Munich, which is currently running. There the defendants of the BayernLB are accused of the following – I now quote literally –: “They are accused of infidelity because, in the acquisition of the majority shares in the hypo, they would have deliberately overlooked existing concerns and taken on significant losses,” Bayern, not blue-black – ah, blue-orange. Now I've promised to do it. Bavaria is deep black! – I continue to quote: “, according to the two prosecutors. The motto was: Eyes to and Through!’ The Bayern bankers would have wanted to have the mortgage after they had not come to the train when selling the BAWAG. ‘You are too stupid to buy a bank’, Bayern’s Finance Minister Faltlhauser is said to have accused the accused ‘Schmidt therefore. ‘He wanted to eliminate this humiliation’, “Well, they then bought the bank from the country of Carinthia and then caused this disaster themselves! Mr Lopatka, you are right, the Bank has expanded enormously since 2003, but has been sold in 2006, 2007. And then the Bavaria increased the budget again. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Yes, but the liability has gone down!]] – Liability has declined because it has not allowed the European Union to do so anymore. And one thing is clear – that's the mistake that can be blamed on the Carinthians: You, of course, the entire Carinthian government, in faith in Bavaria – because they probably came with laptop and leather pants – the Bayern still supports in the expansion course of a small regional bank. And when the Bayern came up with the whole thing going into the graves, we were too stupid – now said salopp – and then took the whole thing back. And that is from my point of view the true scandal, and that is clear! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Nachbaur.]] And it is still to be questioned – in questions 11 to 16 – as it then looks out with a bond of liability, whether it be on the sides of the hypo itself, whether it be with the Raika. This is all still in motion, and I would have liked to have had a corresponding information before. Interestingly, the chief attorney of the state, Dr. Pessorn, has made it quite clear to the public that he considered a bankruptcy procedure to be the cheapest variant. Now the question is: Is this a matter of protecting a banking area? In this case, are certain investors affected, which could then lose money? The biggest verhau in the whole story is that then people like Liebscher and Novotny were made a gardener, so to speak, by cleaning up still there. They only have one task: to protect the banking sector so that nothing comes out. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: This whole thing still stinks. I can only repeat again and again – and I will not give up as long as I sit in this house –: We need an investigative committee to clarify these processes without delay.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18919	Mr Podgorschek, I will request the Stenographical Protocol, since it is very difficult for me here at the Bureau to listen to intermediate calls, and I therefore have to rely on the Minutes. Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18951	Madam President. High house! [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I hope the speaking time doesn't run with me.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e18988	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Nachbaur is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19010	Thank you. – About six years ago, we know, the Hypo Alpe Adria has been informed without an emergency. I believe that we agree on this, at least in the ranks of the opposition. But since we have been talking about it for so long, that emergency nationalization was probably not necessary and that there seems to have been very strange circumstances there, I would rather focus on it now: What's happened since then? – Nothing has happened since then, and that has made everything even worse. Other countries in Europe, which have also had banking problems, have already done well for their non-state banks, and this is done – and a plan is being developed with us now. After all, after many years, we are now given some thought; that is gratifying. I hope from the government that not only the opposition will be included, but also experts – not the same people from FIMBAG, the Austrian National Bank and the FMA who have slept in their supervisory role at the Hypo Alpe Adria or, more strongly, have violated their obligations by gross negligence. Although I very much appreciate Mr Vice-Chancellor, he is absolutely not right when he accuses the Greens of polemics here, because the Greens do not speak unjustly of bankruptcy. A responsible solution is deliberately dragged away here. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] And, of course, the Wyman study has to be published, which I already asked for at the “round table” in the ORF the day after the government was formed. That's probably the most logical thing. But it probably won't be published because it says inside that the bank has to be handled by a Bad Bank and that we don't get around it. But you don't want to admit that here. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] If you can believe the interview of the former Chairman of the Supervisory Board, which was to be read in the press about ten days ago, you can actually conclude that this is not just an economic disaster, but criminally relevant actions. He said literally in the interview: If one had ‘ created the framework conditions for a Bad Bank in September ’ as suggested by management at the time, then the state grants would have been “almost completely avoidable. ” But out of fear of having to put this Bad Bank in the budget, the Ministry of Finance preferred such a task force that simply pushed aside the board of directors and the Supervisory Board. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Spindelegger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the Stock Act in Austria. You can't simply put a law out of force – that's a clear breach of law – and still by highly incapable persons! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] It is no wonder that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has resigned. And the only reason why we didn't want to put this into the budget is because of the Maastricht criteria, because if the hypo is taken in, we are immediately over 80 percent of government debt, and that is, of course, higher interest rates, a worse credit, and we are one of the worst-led countries with the worst government, and that can't be it. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Go! Now we're back!]] This is a clear case of balance sheet counterfeiting. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the capital markets there has been the Sarbanes-Oxley Act since Enron and WorldCom, which absolutely prevents you from hiding and concealing any debt and expenditure. I think this should of course also apply analogously when it comes to taxpayers' money, or perhaps even more. Those responsible before 2008 are sitting in front of the judge, as we know, they are likely to receive prison sentences. But the questions remain open: Who is actually responsible for the fact that everything has worsened since the takeover of government? What has the FMA done for many years? And what is the task of the Austrian National Bank? – According to their statutes, both should analyze, examine and avoid exactly what happened in the hypo. They didn't hear anything, they didn't see anything, they didn't say anything. So we're going blindly, deafly and silently to a billion-dollar disaster, which will mean many more tax increases for us. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] In addition – something that really moves me –: A new bank tax is to come, the bank tax is to be renewed. The banking tax old, yes, okay, it's a solidarity contribution, all banks have to pay, fine. The balance sheet amount was decisive plus the entire derivative business. In the case of bank tax, it is new as follows: It has been doubled, and the derivative business is excluded! I think no one has really noticed this or at least publicly criticized it: [[Abg. Krainer: Oh yes! That's intention!]] The basis of assessment has changed, and the speculative element is excluded! – Ladies and gentlemen, all over the world, we try to contain speculation, but we do everything we can to harm the real economy and promote speculation. The other plans are likely to be exchanged this new bank tax for participation in the Hypo Alpe Adria for banks that do not want to be involved at all. It can't work, that's what the house mind tells you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We must finally resolve the hypo-alpe-Adria problem honestly and courageously. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Please involve the opposition and experts and stand up to your political responsibility! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, I would like to reintroduce the following motion for a resolution against banking tax, as I am against speculation and for the real economy: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to waive the planned changes under the 2014 tax-amending law on stability.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19123	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported. He's on trial. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19187	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19208	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated citizens at the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! The options for deciding how to deal with the Hypo Alpe Adria are obvious. They have been at hand for a very long time, and the big question that arises for us more than four years after the emergency stateization is: Why has there been no decision yet? In any case, there are four options in this situation, Mr. Finanzminister, they will not be unknown to you, you have also quoted them – these are the four options that are presented in the Wyman report, that is, the report you are so strongly shut down. I would like to look at these four options now. The four options are: first, the maintenance of the status quo, second, the solution of the institution, third, the solution of participation, that is, the solution that the government currently prefers, and fourth, the insolvency. Number one, keeping the status quo, the non-stunt was the previous strategy – for over four years you don't do anything – if you can even call it a strategy. In any case, the lack of time has no advantage whatsoever. It means that we are constantly depositing into a barrel without any soil. Almost €6 billion the Austrian taxpayer has already paid for it, and it continues to cost; it costs every day, every day that we don't make a decision. Option number two: the establishment solution, the so-called Bad Bank, although this is not actually a Bad Bank, so not a bank to be precise. She's not a bank within the meaning of the Banking Act, otherwise she wouldn't make any sense. This would be the advantage of having an institution that is not subject to the rules of the Banking Act, thereby not having to comply with the corresponding capital requirements and can therefore be dismantled over a longer period of time the toxic assets. But the disadvantage is also quite obvious: The risk that losses end up with taxpayers, final and complete. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Where are they now?]] Let's look at the third option: Participation solution. The solution of participation is, as we have heard, the government's wish to do. It is ultimately nothing but solution number two, a bad bank, only that in this case banks, large banks would be involved – and at least theoretically carry the risks, so that we would also relieve taxpayers, says at least the government. But let us think this through, ladies and gentlemen. You don't have to be a bank expert to think this through. What incentive do banks have to take part in the risks and losses of the Hypo Alpe Adria? What incentives do they have? Why would they do that? – You have no incentive to do so. And if they do, they will be able to buy any euro into loss and risk – through the reduction of bank tax, through other concessions. Banks will be able to buy each euro, and they will not take over a euro risk. They can't do that either – not even if they wanted to. Executive Boards of banks shall be subject to civil and criminal responsibility and liability. They must not commit any actions which negligently or deliberately harm the company. In other words: Civil law and criminal law do not allow them to take part in the risks if they do not suffer loss for every euro and every euro risk they take. That's where I wonder, dear members of the Federal Government: Do you want to just scatter sand into your eyes to the taxpayers, or do you actually believe in this model? Faith You actually do because you don't understand entrepreneurship because you don't understand how companies work? – I’m afraid it’s both you want to spread sand to taxpayers, and you don’t understand the companies either, you don’t understand entrepreneurship. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: But this is not appreciative!]] A second argument in favour of the participation solution was also put by the government: Our public debt would not increase through this equity model, and this would be important for our refinancing costs. In other words: We would pay less or at least no higher interest for our public debt. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Over four years ago, the Hypo Alpe Adria was not nationalised, we conduct court proceedings, this topic was in all me - up land, landab: Everyone now knows about the disaster of the Hypo Alpe Adria. Only – and on this basis, the German government’s argument – investors, rating agencies know nothing about it, they would be deceived by an accounting trick, by which the government debt would not appear in the official quota, but would be found in an outsourced solution, they would not know. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You've known that for a long time. In our rating, the Hypo Alpe Adria has been inside for a long time. And whether that's inside the official government debt ratio or not, that doesn't change anything at all. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! We've been on the price for a long time.]] Well, then, what's the alternative? – This gives us the option number four, which – you can say openly – is probably also the reason why this study is actually held under closure – Oliver Wyman prefers: the insolvency scenario. He believes that the insolvency scenario is the best model, especially for taxpayers and taxpayers. But this is the solution that the SPÖ-ÖVP government does not even want to talk about. But this is also the solution that experts – and I am unfortunately against you, Minister of Finance – prefers. It is not true that the experts prefer the investment solution. There's a very selective perception. [[Call the Greens: Or none at all!]] Why is insolvency superior? – Insolvency – and you can explain that in one sentence, because you don’t have to be a bank expert – allows the distribution of the loads on several shoulders. This is also the meaning of insolvency proceedings: the uniform division. This means that, in particular, the creditors for the bonds of the Hypo Alpe Adria should also contribute their fair share. According to the government preferred model, this equity model, the bond-believers get back 100 percent. How can we explain to taxpayers in this country that they pay the bill through their taxes and get back 100 percent of the creditors who knew exactly what risk these bonds pose? [[Abg. Krainer: Liability!]] Secondly, we would, of course, save the U Committee in an insolvency proceedings, because in the case of insolvency, many of the questionable transactions that have to be resolved in court would have to be resolved. It's always said you shouldn't let a bank go into bankruptcy. That's what I'm asking myself: What's wrong with us, what's going on in Iceland? What's wrong with us about what's going on in Lithuania? What's not going on with us in the United States? – Since the beginning of the financial crisis, hundreds of banks in the US have been sent to insolvency, and the financial system has not collapsed. If we do not even think about an expert-favored solution, we naturally wonder why it is. The crucial question you have to ask – and the old Romans already knew that – is: Cui bono? Who's the use of this? We would like to know that this House would also like to know. Why is a obviously not optimal solution presented as the only true one? To find out, dear members of the Federal Government, you should finally put the facts on the table and not let unpleasant opinions disappear in the drawer. Finally, make sure you have transparency! Stop the ban on thinking! Make an open discussion! I would very much like to talk to you about the Wyman opinion, which clearly says: The investment solution is likely to require large concessions to reach the agreement of the banks, so that the proposed burden sharing will be significantly lower – no na – and there is a possibility of burden sharing with a wider Stakeholder Group. In other words: The creditors are on board and must also pay their contribution. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Discuss this openly with us! Do not protect the creditors, protect the taxpayers in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19305	Mr Dr. Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19326	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government members! High house! Money for the banks or money for education? – You felt that as a polemic, as an intensification. I think Eva Glavischnig and Werner Kogler have rightly pointed out that this is not because the past is eating up the future. In this case, the charges, the payments we have to make for banks, what we would urgently need in the field of school, kindergarten, universities, research and so on. [[Congratulation with the Greens, with Members of NEOS-LIF and the Agg. Ing. Dietrich.]] Let us therefore talk about the future instead of the past! Werner Kogler and Eva Glavischnig have explained enough about the disaster at the hypo. Let us talk about what we need: a really decisive step forward! As Minister of Finance, you are just as required as you are called for as an ÖVP Federal Party. Do not continue to block those reforms that we need in Austria, reforms towards a common school! Why is this so important today? – This week, end of January, early February, parents have to decide where to go with their children. The pressure in the schools is huge, small children – 7-, 8-, 9-year-olds, already in the second-class it starts – are plagued, and their future depends exclusively on good or satisfying or very good in the witness. I have just read an interesting study in the magazine “Education and Education”; I quote this because you probably hardly believe it: “Approximately 50% of students with satisfaction even have test values, which are also available to students with the grade Very good to be found.” Do you know what this means for the affected children? – The children with satisfaction have no chance of coming to an AHS in Austria. Everything is open to the children with very good. That is what you prevent or what you produce with this much too early separation. Now many in your party see this and want to take a decisive step forward. I arbitrarily quote some people, I have dozens of quotations from Vorarlberg. Second President Karlheinz Kopf, for example, believes that it would be good if the federal government allowed model regions to join the common school. Chief of State Markus Wallner: “Very annoyed that the federal government is blocking if the federal states are considering an innovative further development of the school.” Mr. Norbert Sieber on a request from me: “I say stone and clear yes to that.” A joint approach by Vorarlberg's mandates is "permanent". And so on, and so on. There are x quotes from members of your party who want to. I would like to mention a few more names: Landesratin Palfrader in Tirol, Landeshauptmann Platter in Tirol, in Styria, in Vienna, where the dams actually break everywhere. And what does Mr. Vice-Chancellor Michael Spindelegger – quote – say: “The gymnasium is indispensable. That's what everyone in the People's Party says." All, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? – I think you have a perceptive disorder, and this leads to a drastic encounter with you: We can no longer trust him “because he has become verbal too often,” says a high functionary of the EIA, quoted in the “standard”; or: “he lies”; and: He has “an disturbed relationship with truth, ” and so on, and so on. This is the situation you have brought, Mr Vice-Chancellor. Today you have confirmed it again: No, there will be no money for the model regions. - We don't understand. I would like to give Members here in the House - and we would like to call on everyone to support this - once again, with a resolution on model regions of common school, the possibility of expressing their opinion here, which they otherwise express to the press, and of supporting our motion for a resolution. You can thus achieve what you have to do with your electorate and Electors in the federal states always promise a decisive step forward. I can remind you: The request is verbatim with what is being discussed today in Vorarlberg's Landtag, where, for example, the liberals have signed to pay attention to the common school's enthusiasm and have pointed out that the Federal Government must necessarily approve this model attempt. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Read!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, don't stand across! Make it possible for those forces in your party that are directed towards the future that we can at least introduce the model regions. We don't want to set up the common school yet, we just want to test it, and that must be possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Send a request!]] I am therefore submitting the proposal concerning model regions for common school. [[Call:The National Council]] The National Council wants to decide – excuse me! [[Call the ÖVP:Enrolment!]] [[Vice President Dr Spindelegger: Re-help in the Rules of Procedure!]] Thank you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you give me these! - That's right! [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Spindelegger: You only have to read the text, the resolution itself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Introduced in the course of the debate on the urgent question put by Members Glawischnig to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning even more billions for the Hypo Alpe Adria and again less money for science and education.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19457	Mr Walser, I am sorry, so you do not make a request. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: (on the way to his seat) He is still being brought in!]] The application has not been submitted, only that it is clarified. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19497	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Mr Kogler and Mr Walser have somehow discussed this: populist, polemic. – I don’t know, I think it’s particularly disappointing because it’s usually a mentality of the FPÖ: Applications à la: instead of investing in hypo more in schools. [[Abg. Neubauer: What are you talking about?]] At the Hypo it would be a bit strange now if it were from the FPÖ, but nevertheless I am sorry that we are discussing such an important topic as education and quite an important issue as the hypo on the occasion of such a herb-and-ruve application. [[Call to the Greens: Take it!]] That is why I find it particularly disappointing. However, I also find it disappointing because I know, particularly from Mr Walser, that education policy cannot and should not be discussed solely about budget policy. [[Abg. New builder: You are disappointing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Musiol]] Our clubman Andreas Schieder has already mentioned and carried out this at the beginning: In contrast to all other European countries, since 2007 we have not only invested not only in savings but also in additional investments: in the development of day-to-day schools, in the school experiment New secondary school, where by the way – and therefore I am now amazed by the energetic commitment, even though he is pleased – the Greens voted against it in 2012. The Greens were against the New Middle School. Now they are very committed, then they were against the New Secondary School. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Model regions for a common school!]] Mr Kogler, because you came here and attacked Social Democracy: I congratulate you on the fact that in Austria, two different parties rule with two different positions, not only in education policy, but – I will surprise you now – also in many other areas. [[Abg. May. Kogler: ÖVP for the common school, just not the vice chancellor!]] Nevertheless, they have decided to rule together for five years and to do the art of the feasible, i.e. in the school system for greater justice, for the development of schools all day long, for a strengthening of schools in particular, for the expansion of school autonomy – a demand from NEOS; we have agreed that we can exchange and see where we can still make improvements – in other words, to ensure many improvements in the education system. Some of the points that we want as social democracy, we will not do together with the ÖVP, and vice versa, it will be that way – but it is better to do nothing and to watch in shock, as otherwise nothing would happen. [[Abg. Neubauer: What does this have to do with the hypo?]] That is why I do not understand the criticism and would like to say that I find the following peculiar: If we were to have an exciting educational discussion, you wouldn't have made such a herb-and-rove application. And: Whenever we get into an educational discussion, and that also shows your polemics – I don't want to start defending the ÖVP, it can do it itself – then you won't come out and say: There is an exciting educational discussion in the ÖVP!, or: There is an exciting educational discussion between the government parties!, but you as opposition are the first to stand out and criticize us for it and say that in the government there is only disputed, in the ÖVP there is no agreement. It would be interesting, and that would be a new policy style if you had come out today and said: It is interesting and exciting what is in discussion within the ÖVP, what is in discussion within the government parties. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We said yes, but you don't support it then!]] Unfortunately, the opposite is the case, you make it a polemic opposition policy, as I am actually used to it by the FPÖ, à la: instead of investing in the hypo in school policy! That is why I say: very disappointing; not polemic, not populist, but disappointing, because you know that what is lacking in the school system in Austria is not a budgetary question, but a much further one. As I said, That is why I find it particularly disappointing today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19618	Mr Mag. Zakostelsky is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19640	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Let us remember 2008! At the time, I was not a member of the House, but most of the Greens, as the statistics show, were already there. At that time, a legal basis was created for possible support measures for the domestic banking apparatus, the well-known Financial Market Stabilisation Act. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But Mr Colleague, but not for this abuse around Hypo Alpe Adria!]] This was decided by the votes of all the political groups, including the votes of the Greens, that so much was only remembered. Within the years from 2000 to 2008, the liabilities of the country of Carinthia – we have heard it today, but perhaps from a different point of view – have grown from €150 million to €20 billion. That's terrifying, it's already been illuminated. We are also well-known to the political leaders at the time. And just to show the relationships: After all, this is the tenfold of the annual budget of the country of Carinthia. Without an emergency nationalization, these 20 billion would have also become staggering. Therefore, in December 2009 nationalisation was urgently needed to protect taxpayers, including in the sense of the Austrian economy. And this protection is also the responsibility of the BMF, but ultimately the responsibility of the House and the Financial Committee. Now to the current development: As is publicly known, on Monday, the Task Force informed German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors about solutions and also proposed them with a certain prioritisation sequence. There are well known four serious possibilities, because of course the possibility of insolvency was also examined, but it is clear to all of us that it is perhaps something different here that such a procedure would not be absolutely responsible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who says that?]] It is common sense, all experts agree that insolvency would not least burden the country of Carinthia for decades, not to mention the loss of trust for the financial location of Austria and also for the credit quality of our country. There is now the intention of implementing the task force's first recommendation, the so-called participation model. The talks with the banks are started by the Task Force and under the responsibility of the BMF. This equity model includes a stability fund, which takes over a majority of the Bad Bank. In this way, the banks would be involved in the settlement of the Hypo Alpe Adria or would help there. Mr Hable has referred to it, it is quite right, of course, to try to win the banks here in the sense of an overall package for this solution. Even today, it has already been mentioned that it is important to speedily now – I am not saying fast, fast, that is a difference, quality must be in the foreground – and also to negotiate hard to reach the best solution for taxpayers, but of course also for the bank, which is still owned by the state. I have great confidence in the finance ministers and the experts in the BMF to bring the right solutions to an end on this basis. And, of course, it has not been kept silent, even that has already been mentioned by the Minister of Finance, and the Hypo Alpe Adria will probably also need state support in 2014, depending on which model really comes about. In addition to a resolution that is as gentle as possible – that is, for taxpayers to be careful – it must also be the goal of making the transactions understood as a whole and of determining whether criminal acts have been carried out. This development is explicitly supported by the BMF, which is correct and important. It is not correct, however, what the Greens say on the grounds of the urgent ones, if I may quote page 2: “For a Finance Minister must know that market participants have long counted the hypodesaster to the state and are therefore merely a statistical effect...” This is, of course, technical, factually wrong. There is no direct impact on the Republic’s rating – so far. However, it does not necessarily benefit from the Bank's assessment and, therefore, the value of this property of the Republic if you are trying here to carry out scandalisation as loud and public as possible time and time and again. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, perhaps a small, once again a small contribution to the political culture: Mr Podgorica and Mr Liebscher were dissuaded by Mr Podgorschek. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I did that too!]] I don't think there's much more to be said about this, except that in such a style it can't be surprising if people just shake their heads over politicians. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19719	Mr Dr. Fuchs is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19751	Mr Kogler, I am speaking now. Thank you. Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors on the ranks! It was expected that the hypo summit in the Federal Chancellery had not yet decided on a concrete solution for the resolution of the Hypo Alpe Adria. However, the fact that there is not even a specific timetable or a deadline, until when a solution has to come to the table, does not speak exactly for a good crisis management. But that there is no good crisis management here, we must not be surprised either. In the BMF there are, according to media reports, two camps concerning the further operation of the Hypo Alpe Adriatic: on the one hand, the fect-fidels, who can gain a lot from the insolvency of the bank, on the other hand, the Spindelegger-fidels, for whom insolvency is not at all possible. Atmosphere-technical is not exactly the best conditions to lead such an important place. Why is Parliament not given any figures on the existing solutions? Why is all of this so intrusive to us parliamentarians? I wonder if the large banks here are not being better informed by the Federal Government than Parliament. There must also be no bans on thinking here! It must also be allowed to discuss a possible insolvency of the bank. And if, now, the colleague Schieder thinks that this would be a game with the fire, since there would be no controlled pleas, then I can stop that insolvency of courts is handled according to the insolvency order and the courts are very well known to be controlled, precisely and according to the letters of the law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the large banks now make their support dependent on the extent to which the government is going to meet them with the stability levy, I wonder who is making the tax laws in this Republic: the Parliament or already the big banks? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] And one thing I can still hold: Debts remain debt even if they are veiled by accounting tricks or budget cosmetics. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] We have never had a budget hole, but always a structural deficit. Since we are already in the tax laws, I can also allow myself to make a few comments on the tax-change law 2014. If Mrs Steßl, in her press release today, believes that this is a contribution to greater tax justice and that this will create more room for investment, I wonder what the Secretary of State understands as tax justice or whether she has read through the government's draft. [[Call at the FPÖ: Tax increases!]] [[Interlocutory remark by Secretary of State Mag. Steßl.]] An example of this: The investment-related profit-free amount can only be claimed in the future for real investment, but no longer for securities purchases. Does the Secretary of State even know the background to why this benefit was introduced at the time? – The background was as follows: What for workers of the 13th and 14th years? For the small self-employed, salary is the profit-free amount, and this is now drastically limited. The removal of securities from the favoured economic goods leads to a massive increase in the burden on personalised companies, especially from purely service providers, as investment in physical goods is often not possible or necessary. The labour factor is thus further burdened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially evident is this also in the case of a shareholder managing director of a GmbH with a 25 percent stake. He still has income from self-employed work and benefits from the preferential taxation of the 13th and 14th years. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The shareholder managing director with 25.1 percent, i.e. only 0.1 percent more, suddenly no longer has this advantage. Where's the justice, Mrs. State Secretary? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Alm.]] There are also countless cases where entrepreneurs in the past, trusting in the law, have gone off the package in order to take full advantage of the profit-free amount. These companies are now in the trap, as they can only switch back to the package after five years. At least for these entrepreneurs, there must be a transitional arrangement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Are you talking about the topic or anything? You have, I think, confused the item on the agenda.]] Read your government program, Mr. Schieder! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: The topic is not the statement of government!]] It is unfortunate that, despite the sufficiently concrete nature of your government programme, the increase in the exemption for employee participations and the expansion of success participations has not been included in the present draft. Why is that? The further injustices and futilities in this load package, which I do not want to address any more. A clear no to this tax-amendment law. This is not a tax-structural reform, but a purely medium-sized tax package.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19878	Ms. Club Chairman Ing. Dietrich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e19900	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation of the government has clearly described someone: unprecedented, infallible. And that didn't happen to anyone who doesn't know about business, but that was Professor Schneider, economic professor in Linz. The measures that have been taken are inconceivable, they are burdens and they are what the citizens did not expect in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What this government lacks is courage to change, courage to finally implement forthcoming administrative reforms. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: And do you support the Minister of the Interior?]] We support this. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lopatka, what I am accusing of this government, is that it is too little thinking about things. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Question!]] If we were to reduce bureaucracy in the security field, our security officers would have more time to be outside the population. And that's exactly what the population wants. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They don't want bureaucrats sitting inside, managing files. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Does the Stronach team now support the Interior Minister?]] We are in favour of reasonable proposals. But Mr Lopatka, if someone lost a driver's license a few years ago and a form was completed in two minutes, then four steps are necessary today and five times the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] And there I wonder where the meaning is. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This government, ladies and gentlemen, lives according to the motto “administrative rather than shaping”. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Beautiful tags!]] And I would just want more creativity, more courage to address important things. And if today we have compared some of the speakers with Germany, ladies and gentlemen, then we still have to learn very, very much, because the Germans have had the courage to write down this debt brake in the Constitution. That means they can say proudly today: We only have a debt of 0.31 percent structural deficit. In other words, they are a step further because they have consistently implemented because they have undertaken reforms, have managed to do so, and have just put the whole thing on track. Growth and consolidation depend on each other. We cannot continue to make infinite debt and hope that the economy will continue to work well. There is, however, one area, Mr Lopatka, where you are really world champions, where the government has been strongly in the foreground of the last decades and where we are above all statistics, namely the tax rate. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: lowest unemployment!]] I looked at a statistics: ==References====External links== And I honestly tell you, that's too much! That is far too much, we cannot support the citizens, and there must finally be reforms! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When we look at the field of education, education – and I think everyone here is the same opinion – is the bearing pillar of society. Our youth is the future, it belongs to the future. We need to see that our children are being trained as best we can. But if you address education and then see how we sink from year to year in international comparisons, as Austria, which was once proud to produce so many Nobel Prize winners, from year to year in the PISA study reading, computing is getting worse and worse, then I have to say, with our education system something is wrong. The SPÖ has set up seven out of nine ministers of education for over four decades. And the level of education has gradually decreased. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not right now!]] – That’s right, colleague. [[Abg. Krainer: Since 1970 the level of education in Austria has decreased?! There's not been since 1970!]] – Look Go to the PISA studies! Or do you find it positive that we lost 22 points when reading in the 15 to 16 year olds compared to 2009? [[Abg. Krainer: Since 2000 there have been PISA!]] I mean, this is perhaps your subjective point of view, but, my colleague, I think you should go a little further. And if you're now asking to give the children the most to the kindergarten for three years, I'll tell you one thing: It would be important if we had the children in the kindergarten that the quality of the care fits that the ratio of caregivers to the children fits. This also does not fit in front and back. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Pedagogues demand that a qualitative care be available, with zero to two years of age, a ratio of 3 : 1. We have a ratio of 8 : 1. In the three- to six-year-olds, educators demand a ratio of 8 : 1. We have a ratio of 1: 17. And no one needs to be surprised when there are so many children who are non-German mother tongues and who come to kindergarten and are not adequately promoted. We have the obligation to integrate these young people. We have the obligation to see that they learn the German language. But just to commit them to the kindergarten with an alibi action and not to guarantee that the quality also fits, so nobody is helped. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we met with the Greek ambassador, and he meant that the entire mismanagement of politics was a mismanagement. When I look at what's happening with us, what the government parties have produced in recent years and where they're back in the next round, I'm afraid Austria's on the road to Greece. And I call on you to finally show courage to address urgently needed reforms! With us you will have a partner to carry out these reforms. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am still bringing in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nachbaur, colleagues in relation to constitutional debt brakes and the limitation of the tax and tax rate. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a legislative proposal providing for the establishment of a constitutional debt brake and a constitutional limitation of the tax and tax rate.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20082	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20158	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20180	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! The Hypo Alpe Adria has occupied me in November or December, when we came to this house freshly, and in reality it should have been in this house for years and it has been working on this house for many years. There are two possibilities for the whole of the Causa of the Hypo Alpe Adriatic – and I have already said that: Either it has been demonstrated an inconceivable dilettantism, paired with the fact that one did not want to see one act politically, or, I think, much more, one can see seeing eyes in – as you have admitted, Minister – the biggest financial abuse of the Second Republic. It has been said a lot about the past, and it has also been said by Klubobfrau Glawischnig that in the end three finance ministers have been involved, all of them by the ÖVP, and no solution has yet been reached. At the latest in 2010 – and this can be proved – the first discussions around a Bad Bank were spirited, but nothing happened. The then Minister of Finance Josef Pröll did not act. His successor Federal Minister Fekter also did not act, and it was actually embarrassing and embarrassing for Austria that we had to be pushed from the European Commission to act at all. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] Since that time, 3.6 billion have flown into the hypo, and another billion is still to flow. If you distribute this over these five years, then that is an amount of € 2 million a day to taxpayers who flow into this bank. This is an incredible amount. And if you say now, the definitive decision to hypo- You will meet in the next few weeks, then you will have to remember every day 2 million € that will flow back into it. Second point: We have already called for the setting up of an investigation committee here at a national Council meeting, as well as the Greens. Why are we doing that? . If we as Parliament want to exercise and exercise control rights, we need to be fully informed. But that's not the case. We hear from the media that you are now discussing three resolution scenarios on the part of the Task Force, from the Federal Government, and we are also reading that the Ministry of Finance has commissioned Oliver Wyman to give an opinion on which economics – well aware – I already see it! – have four resolution scenarios. If – and that is what I am going to explain, as has been said, economic criteria – Wyman concludes that insolvency is the best solution for the economy, then I would like to know why this fourth option in the Federal Government is now no longer being discussed. And you have remained guilty of this answer to this day. Here it was said that whoever talks about insolvency is playing with the fire. - That's understandable. But if I have no information, I am forced to talk about it, even if I have such a report as the Wyman report on the table, where I do not get a comment from the Federal Government. I would now like to focus very briefly on what Mr Hable has already said, and I would like to add it a little bit further. I would like to stress once again that there are the economic aspects of the economy here, and it has been explained that one does not look at the state debt and the budget deficit, which is clear, of course, an essential component. I would point out, however, that these effects, as has already been stressed several times today, are very likely already reflected in the calculation of the credit rating agencies, with the credit rating agencies giving a very high priority to economic and political stability. I would like to draw particular attention to one or two aspects. Mr Hable has also mentioned a solution for participation. Wyman expressly says that a solution to participation, as it is now being discussed, sets relatively high requirements for implementation that can lead to delays. And, of course, it is quite right what Mr Hable said that this is an exchange with the bank levy. In the area of implementation risk, complexity, duration and costs, this scenario of the investment solution is the worst-rated resolution scenario from Wymans in the case of Weitem. Another important point is the question of how this affects the financial position of Carinthia, namely, from the point of view of the federal government. And I find it interesting to mention two things here on the part of Wymans in the insolvency scenario, namely that a temporary increase in the refinancing costs of the other federal states is very likely as a negative effect. That's logical, of course. It's clear, it's getting more expensive. However, it is explicitly mentioned – and in a budgetary situation as we have it in Austria, I think this is very positive – that an increase in fiscal discipline would be possible if the federal financial agency were to be financed more strongly in future by the federal states, which is clear anyway. I think this is a very, very positive effect, and I would ask you to really discuss it again. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to one aspect of this Wyman report, namely the question of reputational risks for the Republic of Austria, which, as I have said, is the subject of this report. I mean, it's also a very exciting question. If it says inside that it actually has very positive effects, something which as a government would have to be very adapted to you as a new style, for example, that one really shows decisive action here, the Wyman report, above all, has a negative feature, a risk, namely, the question – and this arises, that is political responsibility, and it is very clear to separate it from the legal one, which, of course, also needs to be examined – and the question is here on page 22: Wouldn't you have been able to do it sooner, must and should? I mean, that's the really crucial question in this entire debacle around the hypo plea: Wouldn't you have done something before? - Yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20256	The next item is Mrs Maurer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20277	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope the proposal is now properly submitted.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20311	Yes, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20326	All right, thank you. Now on my topic: We hear that we spend billions on the banks, and at the same time science is being cut short, and I think this is immense, because we all know that universities, the tertiary sector, have been under-financed for decades. There's nothing to do with it, Mr. Schieder, that you're now praising the WU. I don't understand what this should have to do with it. This is not a new means. The WU is calculated in all this budget. The fact is, in the science budget, €42 million is reduced, although you constantly emphasize the importance of science and research. If you say that was absolutely necessary, that would not be true, because you are taking other areas in this budget very well. They are very likely to reduce discretionary expenditure in other areas, namely the research budgets of the Bmvit and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Within the framework of the recent savings packages 2012 have been said, science and education are so important to us that we take these areas out. The UG 30 has also been excluded. In view of the horrendous amounts we spend on banks, it is quite unexplainable to me why we cannot take this step. That would have been in it. But obviously this government does not care about science and research. This shows not only the abolition of the Ministry of Science, but also the further sub-financing and in the meantime even the reduction of the budget. That's been going on since 2007. I would like to remind you of the way in which the scientific budget is financed. In 2006, the EU Commission first announced its objective of spending 2% of GDP on the tertiary sector. At that time, a period of ten years was set, which would have been 2016. A year later, this Parliament decided unanimously to want to achieve this objective, but at that time it had already been made a little bit of an Austrian solution, instead of extending it to 10 to 14 years, so the target has been extended to 2020. At that time, we spent 1.3% of GDP on the tertiary sector. It was then decided in 2008 to increase the budget by €200 million per year. That's not going to happen. Today, we stand at 1.5 percent of GDP and have to increase the budget to reach this target by €400 million annually. However, this is not provided for in the Federal Financial Framework Act, but – on the contrary! – we are now cutting down on discretion expenditure, and this is, of course, part of the scientific budget. So your announcement for science and research is, we continue the game of mourning. We Greens will not accept this anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20380	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20482	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20505	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the debate, the opposition said today that we want answers. I think in his reply, Mr Vice-Chancellor said clearly and clearly that he took over his ministry in mid-December. A month later, proposals were made and decisions were made to continue working on a project. I think these are the answers. The way is also, as I believe, right, because it has always been criticized today, we have been nationalized too quickly and now we want to have some decision from today to tomorrow. I believe it is important that decisions are thought out and implemented. When I think about it, Mr Kulterer also needs ten negotiations, I think, until he comes to the point that he made a mistake. And if something is controlled from the outside today, it is of course much more difficult to make the right decision for a company. Klubobmann Arbitrators have also listed what happened in the last period in the area of banking. And I think it is right that a number of measures are now being implemented at EU level. What surprises me is that in this “Faymann opinion”, apologies, Wyman opinions – yes, there is the good reference – the pleite of the hypo is considered, where the country of Carinthia simply goes along. [[Rejoicing]] Unfortunately, I do not know the opinion, but I must say that a pleite of the country of Carinthia is of course going through the communities, the individual businesses and the workers. I do not know if in this opinion all this has been assessed, whether the loss of confidence, the loss of image has been taken into account. According to “Small Newspaper” of last weekend, there are other economic experts who completely hide this model and say that this is not the right way. Mr Podgorschek presented this as if the Minister of Finance had gone to Carinthia at the time and had asked that the hypo should be state-owned. I would just like to point out once again – I have already said twice – the interview by Scheuch, then Deputy Minister of State, in the “ZiB 2”, which he gave a day before the nationalization had to take place. It should be a matter of contemplation. At that time, he clearly and clearly demanded that this hypo come into the custody of the federal government and thus be saved. The reaction of the Freedom Party to a call from Mr. Jarolim has surprised me a little. That's what it said: If we do a committee of inquiry, we will present the documents! There was an investigation committee in Carinthia. Haven't all the documents been submitted? That is the opposite question that is important to me, as I mean. But I'd like to say a little more. It also had to control the country of Carinthia by all the esteemed President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser and the Court of Auditors. And I would like to say here because responsibility is always pushed away from what has been published today. There it says: There were errors in the turnover of invoices from 2007 to 2010, where the amounts of liability were misnotified. Now it is said that we are now making the Minister of Finance responsible. At the time, we also had a national financial officer who would have had to look at the amount of liability for what he is liable for. That's what the Court of Auditors – and I quote – is saying: The inspectors are asking the country not to have de facto exercised its control rights at all. And they continue to blame the fact that in the past the country has in practice been paid out in advance of liability commissions for years. - Quote. That is to say, in the country of Carinthia, people deliberately took money out of the hypo to stop budget holes. That is what the Court of Auditors report says today. I'd like to make this available to you if you don't know. I believe that the goal must be that there should be a solution that will keep taxpayers as good as possible and that, of course, no federal country is in bankruptcy. This task has been understood by the Minister of Finance, as I mean, and will work hard on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20572	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20594	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20647	Ladies and gentlemen, the speaker's seat is usually the place where we exchange. Intervening calls are of course desirable and approved, but please do not engage in a permanent dialogue across the banks!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20662	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that from the last speeches on the subject of Hypo – I do not want to repeat much of what has been spoken there – something has been heard out. Almost anyone who has now come out of the opposition party's focus really seems to be an expert. We are trying to really look for a culprit, first of all, Finance Minister Pröll, then Finance Minister Fekter and now Finance Minister Spindelegger, who is only in office for a month, although we actually know where the evil took place. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] But when I look back – the story knows you all as well as I do – then, I say as a Carinthian, I'm sorry every time the story of Carinthian Hypo is treated here at the speaker's desk. I say again and again, if something has happened somewhere – and something has happened, the biggest economic disaster in the Second Republic – then one should say that where it happened, one should stand, and one must now look at finding the best possible solution, just as my previous speaker has said, so that it will come as cheap as possible to the taxpayer. I do not want to play the top expert again, but I would like to bring you just a few quotes from 2009, because we are now in political responsibility. ‘Small paper’ means: ‘Not nationalization saves Kärntner Hypo from the collapse’. “Dörfler” – then head of the state of Carinthia: ‘Carinthia was the winner twice.’ – I don't know how to win such a disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] “Even the day after the emergency of the Carinthian Hypo, Landeshuptmann Gerhard Dörfler (B) highlighted the ‘successful negotiations’ of the country in the nocturnal session marathon in Vienna. The accusation – also then, 2009 – “that the Austrian taxpayer had to do away with the failure of the old owners did not want Dörfler to stand. “Whoever really needs to get angry is the Bavarian taxpayer.” – But we know that we are also being asked to cash. When asked by media representatives whether he is thinking of relinquishing in the perception of political responsibility, he said: “I was a problem solver at the Hypo and never used to mutter with Wolfgang Kulterer.” – I don’t want to say who he meant to be with cults and who was representative of the country at the time, that was his predecessor. The fact that a lot has gone wrong in the banking sector, we know that otherwise we would not have this billion-dollar disaster. Lower Austria has also assumed liability with the banks, in relation to one. Tirol has already leaned further and assumed liabilities in relation to one to three. Carinthia has assumed liability up to the Eleven-fold of its own budget. It was a maximum liability of € 24.7 billion. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Vienna has taken over the tenfold!]] The Court of Auditors – we always believe the Court of Auditors’ statements – has clearly stated in its report that the country of Carinthia did not perceive the control it had over the hypo. And something else: The liability with which we still have to fight is not the liability of the Bavarian mortgage business, but of the old business of the Carinthian Hypo. And the greatest sin of death was committed when one sold the hypo and did not give the liability, but retained the liability so that one could get a high price. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] And today the taxpayer is ten times or a hundred times more expensive than before. Let's stand by what happened! Let us not believe from politics that we know everything, we believe the expert! And I think one thing is going through all the political groups: No one in this House will think it will be possible for any politician to do something that is not in the interests of the taxpayer. Let us not make each other bad and stand for what has been said and let us see that we get out as best we can! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20733	Next, Member Dr. Rosary to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20755	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! An urgent request from the Greens: We knew, of course, that this time the Greens would be of the custom of the House regarding the order of the urgent request, and that was how they thought: Well, what will the greens actually be interested in? Perhaps the question of who will now be present with the corresponding political signs in Russia at the opening of Sochi will not be there or anything else to point to social-political events that lie at the heart of the Greens; perhaps really up-to-date – and we would have liked that, because there are indeed urgent things every day – the question of the Burgtheater scandal once again here to discuss and explain; eventually, perhaps also a request regarding the excitement regarding the alleged unacceptable police attacks during the academic ball on Friday last week, where the Greens have aged, in particular because there was a ban on the spot, because the demonstrators could not physically attack the ball visitors. – From the point of view of the Greens, it is really an unheard-of, which allows these police to actually keep people who want to visit a ball physically integrity. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is really an unheard-of thing that this police has been getting out of their way lately! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Hypo! Hypo!]] No, we are now honoured here with a urgent request “more than billions for the Hypo Alpe Adria and again less money for science and education”. – If there is already money that is deprived of the general budget by the Hypo Alpe Adria, it is, I believe, not only money for education, science and research, but it should also be a question in Austria: How does it look with money for social things, for pensions or the like? Save You're completely out of this question of the counter-recognition of the hypo-billions? And the whole thing happens in a context and in a context where you already have to say one – and with that I stay less with the things of the hypo, I can only repeat one –: If you already believe it is a blue-orange scandal that has happened there, and if you even believe what Mr. Klubobmann Schieder meant, Captain Haider has decided everything, the state government should have been only unanimously blue, then I reply: [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: And who was the head of state?]] Historically, in this state government, other parties were also inside, including yours, and that has always voted in favour. And Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka... – Yes, but you know, you can't compare the Vienna system, where perhaps the head of state in the SPÖ can decide alone. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Who was the head of state?]] This may be so, but there are still majority decisions in Carinthia, and there is also democracy in Carinthia. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Yes, now!]] It's been there before, and it's now. Mr Lopatka said yes: But we weren't powerful enough at the time. – Excuse me as long as the Carinthian FPÖ or the BZÖ or the FPK – as you would like to call it – does not have an absolute majority, but someone must always have voted in favour. Or have these basic accounting types – and then PISA doesn't really wonder me – really passed over to you, what appropriate majority looks like? [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Martinz!]] – Haven You just mentioned the name Martinz, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder? – This is an old member of the FPÖ? [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Yes!]] Aha, that surprises me very much! [[Abg. Krainer: He didn't say!]] – I think there is still a lot of work to be done, so continue in the education programme and what is being done here. It's about: The Federal Minister for Finance, at the same time Vice-Chancellor, has said that these questions of the model regions are not included in the government programme, so they will not exist either. Now federal states are quoted here. – What is actually the intention of saying that you want to have an entire federal region as a model region, for example: In this state, there is no AHS secondary level, but only the New Secondary School? – This means nothing more than a federal education system as in the Federal Republic of Germany. But I always hear: We don't want that! We do not want any fragmentation of education systems in Austria! I would like to point out the constitutional problems that this entails. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] For example, how do parents from Vorarlberg come to ask: Why doesn't my child get the opportunity to attend a gymnasium in the lower level, just like in the rest of Austria? – Considering Once again, you have the constitutional problems that arise! In fact, I have to say to you from the Greens as a political group: In the last few days you have collected enough butter on your head, which is a very weak distraction.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20885	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20906	Mr President. High house! It is not possible to know how to deal with this problem. Desasters is supposed to feel in the way: The situation is hopeless, but not serious! whether one should cry or laugh at it, that such a thing can happen at all, that a local authority assumes such liability – a few years after the Bank has also done things to Burgenland, where the liabilities have crossed the country's budget several times. Perhaps one should also ask the question whether there are similar liability of local authorities even today, in other federal states, because in reality there should never be such a thing again. So if I'm doing this Wyman opinion now, did anyone say Faymann's opinions here? – have in your ear: All the questions sound like everyone knows what's inside, and yet it's secret. It would be very interesting to really see this. I am also surprised that a clause is accepted here, that it is kept secret. If there are four alternatives there, then there are obviously four alternatives, and if anyone says decision-makers, insolvency was never a topic – that was obviously a topic of four that stood in there. I think it is very interesting to see the questions raised in the urgent question, the question 10, who really are the great creditors. – I also believe that there is, of course, no register for these bonds, but if you bought such bonds ten or twelve years ago, that is not quite unknown, but then you know, of course, that all this is really a little bit of a game with the fire, as you have said here. As one expects in the Ministry of Finance, if one nationalizes a bank, of course I also have a question. Mr Lopatka said earlier that there was pressure from the European side at that time, that night. – Of course, I would also be very interested in who actually did that, who called “by the European side” during the night – under quotation marks. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That was a Bayer!]] That too we can all think of who called there, but I would have liked to hear the name. The fact that a bank is nationalized, I think it is in principle wrong, and I believe that it has been totally incorrect. We were told at the time that the consequences of non-nationalization would be inevitable, and in reality, the very opposite is true: The consequences of nationalization were inevitable. – And yet one has to decide sometime to say: Better an end with horror than a terror without end. There is an insolvency right, and this insolvency law has also been applied efficiently in many other cases. I remember the alpine that it gave to the construction sites and so on. Why you shouldn't be able to do this with a bank is still a mystery to me. One last point: tax-change law; Earnings over €500 000 are no longer deductible. – It was said as a reason that one has the goal of not having more salaries than today in 2019. That means in German simply and simply, the Minister of Finance does not want more revenue than in 2012. – By the way, the current government template has changed this goal, as it is obvious that it looks a little stupid if you don't want to make more money. But that regulation, which is now in the draft, is also illegible. Succus: Here too, the insolvency law should have been applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20962	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e20983	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens here on the gallery and in front of the screens! Hypo Alpe Adria is the subject, and this is of course a tragedy, which is a disaster for Austrian taxpayers and taxpayers. This is not to be labeled by the opposition and not somehow in the department “common criticism of opposition fractions”, but to all experts, for example yesterday the “New Zurich Newspaper”: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] “Today, four years after the nationalization, HGAA” – Hypo Group Alpe Adria – “has not moved much. Policy still advises what to do with the bank – that’s the real tragedy.” This is the tragedy: What you're doing here. They're not doing anything! And then, Mr. Klubobmann makes his way out of the SPÖ and says: We did something anyway! – And then I listen, and then I was really angry when he said: We have introduced a bank levy, the highest in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] This is the SPÖ's attitude: We've introduced a new tax anyway! – Yes, is it funny to introduce new taxes? Is that the solution? So, I do not want to abolish them, but to say that we have done something anyway, that is to say, for four years nothing at all, and to introduce new taxes, which are, of course, transferred to citizens, that is simply too little. You've been watching for four years. Before the election, you watched. You knew that billions of extra costs are rising. - We're not attacking this! This is why a Wyman report is coming, and it will be abstained from all. As a parliamentary group, we have to get our hands on it, or somehow stumble at the copyer over it, that we have it in our hands – that's not okay! And since it says that the insolvency scenario is, of course, the one that obviously leaves the citizen the best – and you say we can't touch it. You have an unreasonable discussion or you refuse the discussion. Now I'm not an expert on the details, I just want an honest discussion, and you have to put things on the table. But one thing is clear: If you say with the reference to Carinthia, we cannot consider insolvency here, and if Mr Lopatka says, the root of the problem is what At the time in Carinthia, the action of Carinthia, then must They are also following up here – and we have already tabled a resolution on insolvency law for local authorities. You have to learn from the mistakes! It'll happen to us tomorrow! – Salzburg, we’ve been looking for €1.8 billion over weeks, and we didn’t know: Did we invest them, and if so, how? Vienna: Indebtedness status quadrupled within five years. . We have several ticking time bombs, and therefore I also expect you to agree to our motion for a resolution today because I know that the ÖVP has many people in its ranks who believe that this is correct. And I don't think I'm gonna sit down constantly, if you know it's right. That is why I urge everyone, especially all those with economic expertise, to listen to and agree to this request. In 2016 we have the next financial compensation, where we can raise this together with the tax responsibility for the federal states. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Whoever carries only a spark of responsibility in the body and has a spark of expertise in his head, may agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21091	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klubobmann Strolz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21161	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21198	Mr President. I wanted to address briefly what Mr Dietrich said on the question of education. It has just said that since 1970 the SPÖ was essentially responsible for education policy, and since then the level has fallen and fallen. She has justified this with the PISA study. I can say that the PISA study has been in place since 2000. – So as one wants to draw conclusions to the 30 years before, from a study or a series starting in 2000, I am strange. But I can tell her the naked figures as to the really educational explosion from 1970 to today, especially for women. In 1970 there were 16 000 graduates from higher schools, of which 5,000 were women. Last year we had 44,000 graduates from higher schools, of which 25,000 were women. In other words, five times as many women reach higher maturity per year, leaving a higher school than in 1970. – Speaking of a declining level, I don't understand. In the university area we had 50,000 students in 1970, 13,000 of them women, and in 2012 we had 270 000 listeners at universities, of which 150,000 were women. That is, more than ten times as many women can attend a university today than in 1970. How to talk about a declining educational level is a mystery to me. When I take up the entire tertiary area, today we have 370 000 young Austrians who take up higher education in Austria. This is a multiple of what it was in 1970. But I don't want to beautify everything in education. Of course, PISA has shown us that we have weaknesses that there are major weaknesses in the system. However, it is also true that the last PISA study in 2012 showed that we are on the right track, namely that the achievements of 15-year-olds in the field of mathematics, in the field of natural sciences and especially in the field of reading have improved significantly. For example, if we had 2009, do I think – or 2010? – with 28 percent more so-called risk students in the reading area, this is now “only” – under quotation marks – 20 percent. That's too much, we don't need to talk about it at all, but it's going in the right direction. And one sees that the measures that were taken especially in the field of reading – and this means, of course, that the teachers have especially brought the reading to the fore – have simply borne fruit. So here everything is simply not going to be bad, and not even when I look back on 1970. There has been an objective educational explosion here, especially for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the subject of hypo. – Relatively simple, three points to add: The first is: Where does the damage come from? – There you have to be clear: The damage was caused in Carinthia, especially by the FPÖ – not alone, not under the sole responsibility of the FPÖ, but the main responsibility of course is the FPÖ Carinthia with the head of state Haider. That's just the thing. And yes, they were other parties too. Small parts of it have contributed to other parties, but the main responsibility is clearly there. You have to say that. Of course, the damage was primarily caused in Carinthia. To say that insolvency would have been better in December 2009 is courageous. When you say, This is no problem anyway, there are no banks in bankruptcy anywhere!, I just say: Lehman was also not exactly the example where one says that in the US so many banks have pleaded anyway, and that was never a problem. So I remember Lehman, that was 2008. The hypo would have been in a very critical situation for Austria a year later. You just need to see how the discussion took place at the time: According to Ireland, to Iceland Austria is the next problem; the spreads we paid at the time; the pressure that was already on the financial market and on the entire banking landscape in Austria. So I still think that an insolvency at that time would have been quite, very bad for Austria, and also much more expensive than the settlement. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: Four years! Four years have passed!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Haider.]] The second is, and that is what the Klubobmann Schiederer is right to say at the time, in December 2009, in the debate here, from this speaker's seat – I have even said personally – on the question of who pays the damage, that we as SPÖ will not agree that we will pay the damage due to mass taxes, such as the increase in turnover tax, as happened in many European countries, but we have decided to go the way that we will make banks pay for the damage in the banking sector and have introduced a bank tax here. It may be that we are the most socially righteous in Europe, so we can live well. If you say that we almost demand the highest contribution in Europe from the banking industry to the restructuring of the banks, then I do not see this as a criticism, but then I think we have the most proper and clean solution here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: That's the justification for not doing anything for four years?]] The third thing is: How to keep the damage small? That's the most important thing. For all the models that are now under discussion, the main issue is: What is the cheapest solution for taxpayers? It is not to be done according to any statistical rules, but it is about the variant in which you have to put the least money from the taxpayer on the table. We knew on the first day that the money costs us. We knew that it costs us – lower edge – 20 billion €: 18 billion € Liabilities, 1 billion deposit guarantee et cetera. That was the total amount, even without cost, of the rejections on the financial market. It is crucial to keep costs as low as possible. I understand the scepticism that exists here in part I share with regard to the banking model. There is also a scepticism on the part of the National Bank whether this would be in line with the Maastricht criteria at all. I also share this scepticism, but it is crucial that we quickly find a solution. I'm also of the clubman's opinion that maybe you could have done this before. But now that the new Minister of Finance, who is only in office for six weeks, is also a bit tiring. I wouldn't do that. It says: The damage comes mainly from the FPÖ. Figures are intended to damage the banks via the bank's levy. That's the solution right now. One thing is crucial: to keep the damage to the taxpayer as small as possible – but yes, there is already a damage, and we have not yet reached the end of the day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21268	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21289	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. Today, we have a urgent question to the Minister for Finance, which clearly concerns a scandal from Carinthia, namely the question of how many billions are still going to go to the Hypo Alpe Adria, but on the other hand, the Greens have covered many issues that actually concern science and education. I hope that at some point we will come back to an objective debate, which is a debate on a single point, because I believe that such debates, where everyone tries to talk about something, are not really targeted. If we want to talk seriously about the hypo – and I assume that many speakers wanted to do the same before me – then, as Mr Krainer said earlier, one can say with fug and right: The Minister of Finance, who is not yet in office for two months, has already done a lot. One simply has to rely on experts on this question. He did. And now the necessary negotiations with the banks have to be conducted. It has also been said that it is necessary for the banks to participate. It's no use at all if we're fighting inside here, which would be the better variant. Banks must now be brought into the boat in a sensible manner, and positive results must be achieved here as regards the funds in which banks are to pay and where they are to participate in the Bad Bank. However, we also depend on EUROSTAT whether the proposal in question is in accordance with the respective variant chosen here. Because today we have been talking so often about insolvency, which has been repeatedly praised or praised or demanded by some for years: Insolvency in a company is relatively easy to deal with, the insolvency of a bank is likely also if one looks away from the deposit guarantee that the Republic has to take over. But if you ask for an insolvency at the Hypo Alpe Adria, I would like to stress that in this case you will immediately have access to the Carinthian liabilities. And they were, as we know, over €20 billion. This may not interest one person or another so much now, because then the next one would say again, then you should just let Carinthia go. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] First of all, Mr Darmann: I don't know how the blues in Carinthia would have understood this. They would have said again that the whole Republic is going against the Carinthians. But that's not true at all. But what would have happened? – The Federal Association of Liability would have been granted, and the federal states, namely the taxpayers from Lower Austria, from Vienna, from Styria, from Salzburg, from all the federal states, would have paid for these liabilities which the country of Carinthia has entered. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Out of custody!]] [[Abg. May. Haider: Bavaria!]] Finally, the taxpayers of the Republic would have come to hand. We do not want to do that, and for this reason we want to have a bank involvement so that taxpayers do not have to eat the so-called crotch again and pay this whole pleite. [[Abg. Podgorschek: The banks then get the money from the savers again!]] On today's often stressed topic Federal Estimate, budget 2014, that only 133 million are employed: This is due to the fact that the 2014 budget is not yet available. The Minister of Finance has said it today: ==References== April will be the Bud-get for 2014 and 2015. Then the budget speech is held here in the house, and everyone is allowed to take a picture of himself. Today, a lot has also been said about the common school. It was also thought to be the great healer. In this context, it has been complained that no money has been budgeted for the model regions or is provided for in the government programme. To this end, we must say: You can certainly remember the Court of Auditors' report, the raw report in December, where the Court of Auditors found that, for example, the prestige project of former Minister of Education Dr. Schmied is far too expensive and has far too little output, for example, compared to the lower-level gymnasium, which costs only €4 700 per child, while the New Secondary School costs €7,200 per child. The old primary school has cost 6 600 €, so that was still below it. I think we should keep these issues apart. Each of us has his favorite children, whom he would have liked to finance, each of us dream of tax reliefs, and each of us has such his favorite projects, but I mean: Our focus should be on a balanced budget from 2016. And our focus should be on a proper settlement of the Hypo Alpe Adria, with the involvement of the banks, and not on a deterrent of the banks. And to Mr Darmann, who will probably say exactly the opposite of me now, I would like to say: This is a blue-orange scandal in Carinthia! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] You, my dear colleague, have been in both parties, so you can't do any child-moving in this context at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21379	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21401	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Values Watchers on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! It is hardly surprising to go out here for you at home and for us here in Parliament, if the brave soldiers ants of SPÖ and ÖVP, as the defender of the then non-governmental government parties, are here, on the one hand, to leave their praises towards the then Federal Minister of Finance Pröll and, on the other hand, to praise the current clubman and then State Secretary in heaven for the fact that, in retrospect, the taxpayers have faced almost inconceivable challenges, and that, as we believe, they have been harmed by the non-responsible approach to nationalization, where they have been crossed by the Bavarian Land Bank, the Free State of Bavaria, and thus Austria, the Republic of Austria and the taxpayers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If Mrs Tamandel accuses me of my political origin, I say one thing: I have also been in several banking committees, also in the last one that took place in the Carinthian Landtag, but unfortunately, because of the requirement for the item of negotiation, we were not allowed to deal with the time after the nationalization. There is even a document from the Ministry of Finance one month after the nationalization. I recommend every journalist also to select the final report and the available versions of the final reports of the parties in the Kärntner Landtag from the Internet and to read about what criticism was written internally in the Federal Finance Ministry at that time, namely which problems will arise in connection with the successful negotiations with the Free State of Bavaria on Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth with which you will have to live with which we all have to live! I'm not one of those who's starved the problem of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. Not with God, ladies and gentlemen! But one thing can't be, and that's why I'm standing here now to make this clear again: All the Polish speeches by Members here are put in the Chamber, and all the open questions that you have raised in the area are, I hope, at some point clarified in a committee of inquiry – that is what the people deserved, only as taxpayers – but when a Federal Finance Minister Spindelegger comes out here and says that this was a debacle from Carinthia, he fails to think about whether it was not a debacle from Bavaria, because from 2007, when the Bank was in Bavarian property, the balance sheet amount was doubled by 2009 and new hope markets were opened in two states, Bulgaria and Romania, which there showed a large amount of corresponding risk by credit. Secondly, the mentality of the governance of the time was addressed. – What does Mr. Spindelegger mean: the administration in Vienna or those in the country of Carinthia? It's like this: The country's liabilities have been determined accordingly for more than 16 years in the country of Carinthia, together with the liberals, by all the parties who are expressing their zeal here, by the SPÖ and the ÖVP. The liberals alone never had the absolute majority. And the best thing about the whole story is that the Klubobmann Schieder goes out of here and says the SPÖ has nothing to do with it. True is rather: The last decision, the one for the highest national liability in the country of Carinthia, was carried together with SPÖ. And who agreed at the time? The current First President of the Carinthian Landtag Ing. Reinhart Rohr von der SPÖ. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Who proposed it?]] Go to him, don't be child-moving, take care of your responsibility and talk openly to the population! Do not make it constantly flattened toward Carinthia, calling for hypo-employees to slander towards a party! They all didn't deserve it together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Dispensers: This is your shame: the hypo!]] Finally, it will be too little to argue with all the savings measures of red and black in the past, but also with the funds necessary for the hypo rescue in the future. What about the 599 recommendations of the Federal Court of Auditors, which have not been implemented for years and which would bring €12 billion annually to the taxpayer? They've all been pushed away from you, pushed, not implemented! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Your shame is the hypo!]] It would be necessary to ensure security accordingly, to ensure that no police posts are closed, as the ÖVP propagates across Austria. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No cuts in health, social and family support should be made, but it is finally the Court of Auditors' recommendations, which you have been aware of for years now by Red and Black, to take out and implement from the drawer. The money must finally be used for the benefit of the taxpayer. Stop driving your party-political little money change – I am at the end of the sentence – here! [[President Head gives the bell sign]] At the last National Council election, you have noticed that the population is not blamed for constantly becoming flat-rate on a federal country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21506	Next, Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21528	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! If as a doctor I am facing a patient who is dead in front of me and is dying, I know what I have to do: I will take the necessary palliative measures and let the patient go in peace. The same, I think, is also common in the banking sector in the transferred sense: If a company is broken, due to debt is in the end, and only the taxpayer could help it and help it to an artificial life, then this is an insatiable process and a resuscitation of dead bodies. I don't think that's right, not as a doctor, but as a citizen. I don't think that's okay. I think the most meaningful thing would be – we have heard this today from a number of other speakers – to send this entire banking construction into Carinthia. Because if you do it differently, as planned by the government, then the question arises: Where do we take the money for it? – We take away the money from the citizen, we have to save, science pays for it, education pays for it. And the big plan is to push the middle class further. We have heard the big words before the election, from all parties to strengthen the middle class, certain solutions are to be taken to relieve the middle class. And now the opposite is true: Free entrepreneurs are punished, the GesmbH-Light solution is a pipecreper. The benefit-free amount, which is now to be abolished, hurts, in particular, SMEs. It is a very bad policy to have one's inability to pay for the other's inability. That's not fair and not all right. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21577	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Franz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21631	As the last speaker, Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21653	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! So far, it's €7 billion that we had to spend on bank rescue. With what you have announced to us today, Mr Vice-Chancellor, it is €8.5 billion. 5 billion of this is due to the hypo. And here is the question: What does it all have to do with education, science and research? – Of course, because what has to be given to the banks here is missing in other areas. When Mr Rosenkranz asks himself: Why not social things?, I can give him the answer very quickly: The question of education is simple and simply an extremely social one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The question raised by Mr Vice-Chancellor now arises: Where did this debacle come from? – The epicenter is located in Carinthia, which is already right, but there are many responsible ones. There is not only one responsible person who is called Haider; he may be the main responsible, but the rise in liability, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, of course also have the ÖVP in coalition with Haider and the SPÖ in coalition with Haider. Or have you forgotten all this? - That's one. Second: This epicenter – as always in earthquakes, of course, there are aftershocks – is not the only ones responsible. In the meantime, the epicenter has moved to Vienna, where everything has been dragged away more or less to solve the problem of Hypo Alpe Adria. And you can call the actors by name. This begins with the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, Governor Novotny, who in the summer of 2008 called this bank “non-distressed”. And half a year later, under Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, this bank has to be declared necessary. And who was in the backpack with? – That was the then State Secretary, who co-responsible. And the Bayern were very happy that they found a fool with the Austrians, who took everything from them. That's the truth! And this has also led to the fact that we have already spent so much money. Second responsible person: Minister of Finance Fekter. And you were the State Secretary again, then! [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Not again, still!]] Fekter has dragged everything away, she has talked for months that it will bring about a favourable solution for taxpayers with the involvement of banks. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: Yes!]] Then the elections came in between. Oh, you've been asleep for months. You too! [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: I didn't sleep at all!]] They have been in favour of a Bad Bank for months, but have not been in favour of the Minister of Finance in the government. That's just the truth! And this has led to the fact that this slowing down of the procedure is becoming more expensive for us today than ever before. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now there is a new finance minister. He is quite new as Minister of Finance, but not as Vice-Cancellor in the new old government. He can't pretend the Hypo Alpe Adria's passed by him in the last few years. That's absurd, please don't be angry with me! As it has been said today, Mr Vice-Chancellor has already done a lot of things, I ask you: What did he do? – He said we must now examine what the Task Force has presented to us. The Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of this company have been saying for a long time – by the way, they are no longer there because they have resigned because what they say has not been implemented – we need a Bad Bank. This was enshrined in the annual reports. It was just pushed away. Now, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, come here and say: We must examine all of this, we must examine the participation model. - That's absurd! The banks have long signaled that they are only interested in one: If participation, then only against a reduction in the bank's levy. And that means, of course, that the next budget hole opens up when you drop the bank levy – again less money for education, again less money for science and research. If you say that everything needs to be examined in the long term in Brussels as to how this affects public debt, then this too, Mr Vice-Chancellor, is absurd. You have experts sitting in your home who can tell you at the push of a button how what solution affects Maastricht debt. I also say to you – because I know a little bit about this too, and by the way, you only need to call Eurostat once in Luxembourg, and they will tell you: If the banks do not take on a risk in the equity model, then it will not be possible to avoid the crediting of debts to the Maastricht debt. That's so simple. Why, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, do you push the model that Wyman has presented? You said: Not quantified. – But of course this is a solution model among many. And it is known that Mr Peschorn, the chairman of the Financial Procuratorship, has repeatedly insisted on it and is still pressing it. But it is also known that officials of your home are pressing for a solution, which means: Let us immediately resolve this Hypo Alpe Adria and minimize the taxpayer's costs and thus make money available for the many tasks we have to do in this country, future expenditure on education, for social affairs, for science and research, in short for the future of our children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21738	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote, first of all on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Stability levy'. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, colleagues, on 'Constitutional debt brakes and the limitation of the tax and tax rate'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues on model regions. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, 'Yes', those who vote against to put 'No' vote in the mood. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21836	Did all the Members vote? – The vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e21874	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 170; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 32; ‘No’ votes: 138. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hable; Jarmer; cook, kogler, korun; Light pickers, loackers; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pock; Rossmann; Scherak, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinhauser, Strolz; Vavrik; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Antoni, Aubauer, Auer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Bösch, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Darmann, Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, Doppler, strike; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gartelgruber, Gerstl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Hechtl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karl, Karlsböck, Kassinger, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kunasek, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lausch, Lettenbichler, Lintl, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Podgorschek, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter, Rudas; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schidner, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmidenschlager, Schönegger, Schrangl, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Stefan, Steger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vilimsky, Vogl; Refusal torfer, Wenninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22054	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on insolvency law for local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on the Economic Protection Pact. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:14:03]] 6. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 116/A by Mr Gabriele Tamandl, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on a Federal Act on a provisional provision for the 2014 financial year (Legal Budget Provision for 2014) and amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 (22 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22117	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Darmann. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22144	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A discussion and a debate, together with a decision on the provisional provision for the financial year 2014, the statutory budget commission 2014 makes it necessary, of course, to recall the non- and non-information policy of the old and new Federal Government in the context of the last national elections, namely, ladies and gentlemen, that the population were promised before the national election by the estimated colleague Fekter, by the Federal Chancellor Faymann, by then State Secretary for the post-election period, for the next years milk and honey, but in fact it was so that, with the election evening and in the following weeks, almost every one mentioned the budget hole as always larger and larger. Let us remember the following: First there was a 30-billion budget hole, then there was a 40-billion budget hole, then there was a 20-billion budget hole. The outflow of these budget holes, led by SPÖ and ÖVP, was the wave of taxes to be rolled out in all areas of Austria over the next few years, ladies and gentlemen, a wave of burden, which ultimately, when we are already talking about the budget provisorium, culminates in the fact that, among other things, security is now being saved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In the field of security, the severance fund is being used brutally, not only to the Austrian federal army, which already has to deal with the lowest budget in Europe, but, ladies and gentlemen, recently also with a budget commission, which provides for a minimum of €38 million for the police, at the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen. And that's all where the Minister of the Interior does not leave any way out of saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Minister, but also the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues, will now have to explain to the local citizens themselves, the local authorities, the executive officials in the regions, especially in the rural area, what it is otherwise, if not a savings, if they close their own posts on the ground and thus large-scale regions, especially in Carinthia, the local care, contact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is that this barrage of police, through these savings in the Ministry of the Interior, will increase the average intervention time of the police, extending the fact that personal contact between the population and the police on site is made more difficult that there is this whole process of balding at a time of increasing crime, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the entire Federal Government must also be aware that there is an IMAS survey among the Austrian population with the significant title “the longing for security”, which makes it clear that 70 percent of the population of politics is More employment on security requires more than 25 percent of the population in this study to make it clear that they do not feel safe themselves in their own housing environment at night and that a third of the population clearly wants to have a more employment policy on the core issue of security as the basis of quality of life, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of this is facts that we believe are getting rid of in a responsible way by this Federal Government, the local population, the local community and the local community are overshadowed by a post-closure without involving the affected population in advance. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As has been said, security is a basic need, a fundamental strengthening of quality of life, and this is being cut by this federal government in Austria. We liberals know very well that we are talking about the people in terms of security, and we will not in any way support this holocaust to the police. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am working hard to seek support in the interests of our people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22227	Next, Mrs Tamandl is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22248	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have a legal budget procedure to decide, as we have shifts within the resorts and therefore we would not be satisfied with an ongoing automatic commission. The Minister of Finance has already announced that by the end of April he will submit a Federal Estimate for the years 2014 and 2015 and the Federal Financial Framework, which will now be adapted from 2013 to 2017 and future from 2014 to 2018. I think it was also necessary to make an amendment. In this proposal, we agreed that in the formable use of funds – this is nothing but the discretionary expenditure that is now no longer available under the new budgetary law – a commitment of 500 million will be established to comply consistently with the budget path. On the criticism of my previous speaker, I would like to say the following: Mr Darmann was a member of both the FPÖ and the BZÖ sometime in his political life. In particular, these two parties have always called for the approximately 500 proposals of the Court of Auditors to be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] . Now I can speak out, Mr Darmann! For example, the Court of Auditors has proposed that a comparison should be made with regard to police inspections between Munich, other major cities, Vienna and all over Austria. I also believe that it is often not easy for the police to be on a post alone in the night. What's he doing? – If anything happens, he has to leave, and the post is not occupied either. So I think you can be much more efficient. Mr Darmann, you are talking about a "cash". – A ballast is different for me, namely that posts are saved from the police, but not that police inspections are locked up. So you can't talk about a bald blow at all. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Tell the mayors!]] – I am speaking, Mr Darmann. [[Abg. May. Darmann: I can call!]] I understand, of course, the criticism of the mayors, that is no question at all. I understand the concern that rural areas believe in having disadvantages. [[Abg. May. Darmann: He did!]] I believe, however, that it is necessary for the police to be with the citizens that security – that is subjective and objective security – is safeguarded by the population. We will hopefully achieve this with this reform, and the Federal Minister will do everything he can to achieve this objective. [[Abg. May. Darmann: I don't think so!]] That is also the reason why she talks to the heads of state about it. Mr Darmann, if, in the future, there are great speeches about reforms, administrative reforms and savings proposals from the Court of Auditors here, then one should take a look at the consequences in advance, so that one does not afterwards practice criticism of administrative reforms as you do today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For me, for my party and for the Minister of Finance, it is our top priority that we have a balanced budget by 2016. It has the highest priority that we will have this in a sustainable way, because we need relief from the work factor, because we need money for families, because we need money for investment in the future, and because we simply need to create jobs and the economy needs to get under control so that it can create jobs. In order for us to be able to boost the economy properly, we need a margin now, and we will create it. This is why savings are possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22341	For the sake of order, I still note the previous power of parliamentarian. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Darmann is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22845	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22867	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! Two things are on the programme here and today, on the one hand, the budget provisor, on the other, the revision of the Federal Financial Framework Act. That's significant. Mrs Tamandl meant that the main objective of this federal government was to achieve the structural zero deficit in 2016. Of course, this raises the question of what actually is with the really important objectives of budgeting, because the budget is, so to speak, the government programme cast into figures. But if you say that's the top goal, I wonder: Do other questions, such as labour market policy, education policy, social policy, have no relevance? – Obviously so. This budget provisor is also in line with the restrictive budget, which is the reduction of budget expenditure, in order to achieve this budget objective. It is not about creating growth to achieve the budget target. This would also be a way of achieving the goal without having to cut down on discretion expenditure. But that's not the case. The government says: No, we have to cut costs. On the other hand, we also need to increase taxes, although in the run-up to this election much was about reducing taxes. At the time, Mr. Vice-Chancellor said: You can only talk to me about tax cuts. Well, €1.2 billion is the tax increase package. What is planned for cuts in discretionary expenditure, the so-called designable use of funds, as they are now called, is €500 million. Of course, this is due to education, science and administration, but also to many NGOs in the areas of health, social affairs and women, because it will all be affected. It is the use of this and the past federal government that, if shortened, it is not prioritized but always shortened across all. Priorities – what do we need that for? – That is absolutely essential, most importantly, everything will be shortened. We do not set priorities and manage the lack and otherwise nothing in important areas. In creating a legal commission, it must not be forgotten that the 2014 budget is being presented very late and the 2015 budget is to be presented at the same time. There is already a risk of going in those cases where Minister of Finance Fekter went to the Federal Financial Framework last year, namely at a very early date on the basis of earlier economic data on something that would be better decided on the basis of timely data only in autumn, namely the 2015 budget. If the economic situation changes, it will have a significant impact on the budget. The budget is nothing to say technocratically: We're now reaching zero deficit. The budget is always the result of the economy, which must once enter the heads of the ÖVP and the SPÖ. This is not a technologically controllable thing. Now to the Federal Financial Framework: The Federal Financial Framework will also be amended. In subheading 46: We find the Hypo Alpe Adria and the other national banks. Today, Mr. Vice-Chancellor has announced to us that the Hypo Alpe Adria will cost us 1 billion € this year. For the year 2014 I read in it 133 million €. – This is not a provisional, Mrs Colleague, it is a revision of the Federal Financial Framework Act! [[Abg. Auer: In the provisorium!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: That's a provisorium!]] That's where you confuse two things! [[Call the ÖVP: They're yelling!]] We decide here and today on the legal budget procedure and the revision of the Federal Financial Framework Act. If there are only 133 million euros in it, this framework law does exactly one thing: It infringes Article 51(1). 8 of the Federal Constitution, where exactly in it is that a true representation of the financial situation of the federal government is to be guaranteed, and it does not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I also tell you where you can read about how to do this in the individual details: In the Federal Budget Law 2013 § 14 para. 2 states that the individual control measures to reach the limits laid down there must be determined. Unfortunately, all of this cannot be found in this revision of the Federal Financial Framework Act. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22935	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e22956	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The statutory budget commission reflects the new ministerial structure adopted in the late morning or early afternoon. Those shifts, which exist between the Ministries, are therefore also manageable in execution until the adoption of the 2014 ordinary budget. In good German: It is ensured that Eastermayer, for example, is no longer the Minister of Women, but Heinisch-Hosek, and Heinisch-Hosek no longer has art and culture, but Ostermayer. That was just exemplary now. There are still a number of other shifts. The second thing we have in here is the reduction in the cost-effective use of funds with €500 million, since it has also been clearly said that we want to save where it goes and where it is useful. We also want to invest where it is necessary, as we have done in recent years. We have thus come through the crisis very well. That is where the figures and, above all, the comparison with all other European countries are right. The final budget for 2014 will be presented at the end of April in the House and we will have sufficient time in May to discuss it in detail. Yes, the aim of this federal government is to have a structurally balanced budget by 2016. That's one of the goals. This is legible here, Mr Rossmann is right. But that does not mean that there are no other goals at all. The government programme has not only the chapter on budgetary policy, but also a series of other chapters, including other essential objectives. Today in the current hours, when it came to family policy, labour market policy, European policy and the fight against unemployment, you have clearly learned what the Federal Government's objectives are in these areas. To the accusation of the lawn mower: That's not the case. It is also not a retrospect if, for example, it is a question of reducing personnel in the Federal Service. It was quite clear that this does not apply to the teacher sector and the security sector. Individual areas were clearly excluded. In the same way, discretion expenditure is not a lawn mowing, as the accusation was, but explicit use of resources and not just discretionary expenditure. That's an essential difference. It is not the lawn mower that simply passes over the individual resorts. On the question of the economic situation: Yes, the economy can change, and that has consequences. But that is why we also have the new budgetary law. That is why we do not have fixed limits on expenditure in economic areas. This is not the case with teachers, for example, because we already know quite exactly how much we spend next and next year. must. But for questions such as: How high is the necessary allowance for pensions? How much money do we need for labour market policy? – it's just kept variable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] This is kept variable, precisely because the economy can lead to more or less money needed than one has budgeted. That is to say, the economic situation is incorporated into budgetary law. That's why I don't understand your accusation. To the hypo: This legal budget and the BFRG apply until May, which has been clearly stated here. By May, the €133 million will be spent. You won't need that. It has also been said clearly and in advance that the hypo will cost us money. It will cost us more than € 133 million. We do not know how much she costs the following year. In any case, 1 billion is set in budget planning at the present time. At the time when the budget is presented, it will also be clear in what direction the reorganisation of the hypo is going and how much money will be necessary in which year. This is also presented very clearly and transparently. Why there should be a violation of federal constitutional laws is not clear to me, as it is also clearly stated that this applies until the adoption of the Federal Budget and the Federal Budget Act 2014 in May. To that extent, I believe that criticism is largely emptiness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23010	Next is Mrs. Ing. Dietrich in word. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23032	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! No matter what you want to tell us about the government parties, how good everything is, how great everything is – read the “Kronen Zeitung”! There it stands inside: “Now the tax avalanche” is coming to us. The tax addicts! [[The speaker keeps the title sheet of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The truth is that citizens are burdened with no end. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The Truth in the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] Originally promised by the SPÖ: We give 1 100 € per year for medium income. [[Call at the SPÖ: There can be no talk of ‘ giving ’!]] That's what Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said. Furthermore, since Eugen friend no longer knows what can be understood by the SPÖ under medium income. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the part of the ÖVP there was talk of the detachment of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! This has become a gag. I mean, it's high time taxpayers once see what this government is doing. 5.5 billion on the one hand are generously donated 100 million support for investment measures on the other hand. Everyone can take a picture of the weighting. Ladies and gentlemen! The times are very difficult. We have over 400,000 unemployed people who hope for a job, people who want to work. Many are in re-training and want to work. People are afraid of the future, because businesses are closed all around. They hope that the economy will be boosted. We from the Stronach team want an economic offensive. We want the economy to be strengthened. We want a tax reform and that the economic engine and consumption are stimulated. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And what do you think about this topic? – New taxes are taxed to you. Even the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, says: ‘Whoever is for new taxes sells investors and reduces jobs’. Estimated colleagues from the ÖVP! Who are you listening to? – I think he’ll have weight as your big economic boss. You can be his – yes, that would be great, my colleague. [[Call the ÖVP: On the Frank!]] If you were to listen to the Frank, Austria would be great. We would then be a model region, a model state. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] Ladies and gentlemen! One issue that also burns under the nails is the security and closure of posts outside the rural area. It's a strange thing you've always heard: Quality improvement, it becomes even safer. Only Mrs. Tamandl has put light in the dark. She said what we suspected. There will be a saving at the expense of security, at the expense of citizens. [[Abg. Tamandl: When did I say that?]] Nowadays, only one thing is safe, namely, the burglar. He knows from the paper that it takes between 40 and 60 minutes until anyone comes from the police to help. Ladies and gentlemen! They say: No problem, there's a button at the community you can press on. Uniquely, in the Styria – colleague Martina Schenkwill confirm this – one community after another is locked up. That's what's going on. Where, then, should a button be attached if not even the municipal office is in operation? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Security is a basic need. It is our duty and our responsibility to ensure that people in this country feel safe. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Luck is still missing!]] - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23165	The next item is Mr Wöginger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23186	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Dietrich, perhaps you can also read page 2 in the “Krone” which is written by the survey as to whether Mr Stronach is missing. Result: 91.3 per cent believe that they do not miss Mr Stronach here in the House! [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Colleague Dietrich, you quote a newspaper like that? That's where the Frank gets angry!]] You should take a closer look at the entire paper – and not just the cover page. [[Abg. Ing. Dietrich: This is a cowardice!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budget commission is necessary because we do not currently have a federal financial law for 2014, precisely because of the national elections, and because we have already adopted amendments to the Federal Ministry Act, changes in the area of departmental powers, such as in the family sector. Yes, it is right, it is also €500 million in savings, so to speak, all the ministries concerned. A word on the police posts, too, because this is now obviously a police-post discussion, but it is actually on the agenda for the 2014 budget provisor: Mr Tamandl has not brought this into contact, Mrs Dietrich, but that is your interpretation, which is not true. When we talk about the police, we also have to say: All police officers remain in the respective districts. No staff posts are being dismantled! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hagen: And they are missing in rural areas!]] To the circus, which is held here verbally – it is passed over with the lawn mower, everything is locked up – I must say that everything is not right. Neither the staff nor the police, as far as their number is concerned, are saved. But what will be done: Items will be grouped together. Yes, if you have a police post where seven police officers were, it will be so that they will be assigned one or two posts in the area. [[Abg. Steinbichler: And then exactly there is missing!]] The fact that the mayors have no pleasure in doing so is understandable because police posts are an important institution for the communities, but this measure will not lack security for the population, ladies and gentlemen. That is part of the order and the correctness of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budgetary objective for the next few years is also clearly formulated: We need a balanced budget – and we will achieve this with Minister of Finance, Deputy Spindelegger. A budget will be presented which provides a structural zero deficit for 2016, the budget deficit will be reduced in the coming years, from minus 1.4 percent in this year to minus 0.45 percent in 2016. That is why we have a balanced budget – and this is necessary for the future of our country – when we count countries and communities on it. The schedule is also known to you: ==References== There will be the budget speech on April 2014, then the budget deliberations in the Budget Committee and at the end of May the decision will be taken here in plenary. One last word, as the subject of taxation was also addressed: Yes, it's right, that's a force effort, and we're saying yes to this effort. However, new taxes are also needed. We have no joy either, but it is necessary for us to comply with the budget discipline with the objective of 2016. But we are also making reforms, I would like to stress that. In the field of health, the Federal Health Reform is being implemented, which is part of the government programme. As far as the pension area is concerned, we have an ambitious goal: Increase in the retirement age to 60,1 years – one year more than the Pension Commission has proposed. In the next few years, the age of entry is increasing more than life expectancy for the first time. However, we also save in the administration, through the reduction of personnel in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, do not speak small of these measures. They are important because the goal is a balanced budget 2016. However, we will also start offensive measures in the areas of growth, employment, families and care, because we need this for the future of our country and especially for people.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23278	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23299	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens in front of the screens and at the gallery! Parliament, this building here, is a landmark of democracy. That is why we agree that this building, this Parliament, needs a necessary reorganisation. What we do not agree on, however, is the financing of this renovation. NEOS believes that the political parties should and should make a financial contribution to this reorganisation, and that was best about reducing federal and national party funding. Yes, you heard right: Reduction of the promotion of the parties! Let's say that again and again. If you have believed that our requests for a reduction in the promotion of the party are simply depleted and we do not remain on this issue, I can assure you for the time being: This will not work, and we will remain on this issue. The €350 million needed for the refurbishment of the Parliament building is to be spent on less expenditures of around 3.3 million annually in federal government funding and €9.6 million in state party funding over a period of 27 years. We are committed to the public promotion of politics, the political parties, but not to this extent. Austria is a European champion in the promotion of parties. Our country has a thirteen times higher party funding per capita than Germany and a twenty times as high as Switzerland. That is too much, and that is why the citizens of this country do not understand! We must stop putting large amounts of money into large-scale posters and superfluous party structures. We don't need that. If the necessary steps are not taken, I can promise you: We will remain on this issue, we will increase the pressure, we will not let loosen the issue of the reduction of party funding. NEOS therefore submits the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23366	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Hable is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23428	Next speaker: Mr Danninger State Secretary. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23449	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it several times now: The legislative budget is necessary for two reasons in particular. The first reason is that there have been shifts due to the change in the situation of competence. We have already said that the area of integration has migrated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, art and culture to the Federal Chancellery. The statutory budget procedure allows the reuniting of competence and the necessary budget resources – Until the entry into force of the 2014 Financial Act. The legal adjustment thus prevents the competence situation and the corresponding distribution from falling apart. The following is that the budgetary facilities for these shifts also take into account the changes resulting from the reform and modernisation of administrative jurisdiction. However, the statutory budget commission also allows – and this is the second essential reason – the inclusion of necessary resources. You know, there is a difference to the automatic budget procedure, namely that the financial debt in the automatic budget procedure can only be recorded up to half of the financial debt of the previous year. Due to the rhythm of tax receipts, it is so that normally more funds are needed in the first half of the financial year; the legal budget procedure raises this bottleneck, and so we have the opportunity to take up the necessary funds. In the interests of sound budget management and ensuring a stable budget path, the legislative budget procedure also provides for a reduction in the so-called discretion expenditure of ministries of around €500 million. Therefore, according to the standardised binding, the resorts are no longer allowed to spend the corresponding amounts. Each department will make such a contribution in proportion, with the resorts deciding independently which savings will be made in concrete terms. Despite the necessary savings, however, important impulses remain untouched. Thus, in the draft Federal Government Finance Act 2014, which will be presented to the House at the end of April, the Federal Government will ensure that, for example, the funds for bilateral development cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not reduced. The current federal financial framework for the year 2014 will be adapted to the values of the statutory budget procedure, as the retranspositions due to the changes in competence also have an impact on the federal financial framework. With the statutory budget, the 2014 budget can be prepared and advised with the necessary care and consideration. In this way, a gradual approach can be taken to reducing the structural deficit. The clear objective of the Federal Government is to push forward the necessary budget consolidation and thus ensure boosts for the economy and employment by setting up offensive measures at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23503	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23525	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear viewer! If the budget is decided today, a buffer will be created which will allow the new budget to be prepared in a quality way, and that is good. But what do I mean by “quality” in relation to the budget? – I certainly don’t mean that just the spasm is set up and therefore certain existing important structures are weakened. It should also remain a little space for innovation and good ideas. The government programme has agreed to a steady budget consolidation so that we can all achieve a structural zero deficit together from 2016 onwards. In order to be able to enter this path, we must bundle all the forces. As an entrepreneur, I have learned how important sustainable economics is in order to also exist in times of crisis. to remain strong and strong. Sustainability brings a certain degree of stability, ensures jobs and is a crucial economic factor. Therefore, I believe that sustainability should play a much greater role in the reflections on budget creation. If such sustainability considerations involve in the creation of the new budget, the waiting for the new budget will make maximum sense. I would therefore like to see all those who are working on the budget in the near future, above all the Federal Minister for Finance and his team, in preparing a budget in the coming weeks and months quite a lot of strength, but also quite a lot of courage for sustainability considerations and I am already looking forward to cooperation. Good and thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23561	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23582	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! This budget procedure, which is being decided today, is clearly a constitutional necessity until the final framework. We already want to give the House a few things in the form of motions for resolutions, such as this future budget, which is specifically designed. There are recent events where we say that we have to look at them for a first, a second, or perhaps even a third time before using state funds there. The first request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am speaking here about the questions of the Bundestheaterholding or the daughters, State Opera, Volksoper, Burgtheater. There are top managers who do good work, are also well rewarded. But, especially in recent times, I am speaking here of the so-called Burgtheater scandal, something has happened and has gone through the media observation, where we still have no information here in the High House because of the government's willingness to do so. It was not possible to have a meeting of the Committee on Culture on this subject in order to be able to ask questions here. The relevant information is not provided. The media overlap differently every day. It is obvious that millions of losses are being made in this area. It is about the obvious use of accounting tricks and that, ultimately, things happen up to to mutual accusations, who knew what where, which led to a release, and who recently said on the radio to Ö 1 that all accusations were unstoppable. Please, what's going on? It's just not like you can say art is free. A certain restriction exists where tax resources are used. This does not change the fact that there are good performances that there are booked houses or similar. But if we shoot as a state there, it must be possible to get control of where means of taxation flow. It is not true that the persons concerned would be directly on the hunger cloth, but it would be a visible sign. If one also mentions that the Gagens were increased by almost 7 percent from 2011 to 2012 and that the Managing Directors in these five companies are paid €1.7 million annually to salaries, then this is significant. A little bar is supposed to be pushed forward here. The second request: Resolution by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues on the preparation of the 2014 budget accompanying law The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to ensure in the Government’s draft budget accompanying law the exclusion of the “Young Green/Young Alternative” of funding, in particular under the Federal Youth Promotion Act.” [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] According to a 2013 request response, this group received an amount of approximately €55 000 in the second half of 2012. And what this organization does, we've seen. Suddenly, it's just more about a homepage that they just offered. They have no influence whatsoever on the content of the homepage of their own domain. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This impresses on you the tears of rupture. In reality, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, Mr Steinhauser – he is not here right now – does not even get together to dissociate himself on television from violent actions or similar. This is no wonder, for it is also his spiritual creation. He was the founder of the green youth and so on, spokesman, national spokesperson. He worked in these functions. It is a union of youth that posts on their homepage: You can have our hatred! They also establish tax-free: Please, dearly violent black block, come from Germany, join our demonstration, make the corresponding marginale! If the police stop you from attacking the ball visitors directly, just like the last year's ball, where you've managed to get too close to it, then stop ruining any window windows! – Probably the window panes were with a right-wing, fascist, Nazi background. Probably it was this aggression she had to let go of here. Such a youth association, which allows such a thing, cannot flow to state money. This must be ensured in good time, therefore this request. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] After the excuses were heard and after the demands that in the future the content of this homepage will be looked at, be aware that nothing will happen again, something has happened recently on this homepage, namely only now, after all these requirements: Have you all come home well? I hope you didn't have any problems and we'll see you next year. – This is the distance à la Greene, if there is a conscious smile back there. The screenshots are here. You can get back together with your randlers. We have a different view of democracy. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] We are the ones who stand for you to say your opinion protected at any time. Their method is to beat political dissidents, put chess mats. That's your foreign exchange. That's your thing. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That's where you can yell what you want. Go next time with Mrs. Wulz at the Black Block where you're hiking! It went two or three or two and a half meters next to the Black Block. She has nothing to do with this! – Listening You're going to put up with this veil, and don't believe anyone in Austria would understand! Her Federal President Glawischnig understood it quite clearly when she said during the horror seconds at the press conference that you want nothing to do with all this and exclusion and so on. She's noticed exactly what it's all about here. Because your larvae have been torn down. It's about spreading people's problems, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23713	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23734	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Our responsibility is that Austria is strengthened by the continuing crisis. Solid government finances and the reduction of debt are essential for this. In order to ensure the funding of the federal budget, we will create a funding basis for the next months with the legal budget procedure until the decision of the 2014 budget in May. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] The National Council election and subsequent government negotiations last year did not allow the 2014 budget to be presented in a timely manner. And today's decision allows us to give a peaceful advice on a qualitative budget for 2014. – That is how Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter pointed out in October 2013. The legislative budget for the financial year is used to make the budget plans and parts of the government agreement provisionally up to the status of the 2014 budget. With the lower levels of expenditure and the savings in the so-called discretionary expenditure of around 6 per cent and in the sum of around € 500 million, the objective of a structurally balanced government budget will be consistently pursued by 2016. The draft, clarified and supplemented by the Committee in the event of amendment, shall also take account of the new distribution of resorts accordingly. I am glad that this presentation was presented so quickly by Mr Vice-Chancellor as Minister responsible. It is an essential basis for achieving the goal of a balanced 2016 budget. Responsible Budget Policy takes account of future generations, that is why we are happy to agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23776	Ladies and gentlemen, I may add that Dr. Walter Rosenkranzim made the last contribution to the debate Applications are sufficiently supported and are therefore included in the debate. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23887	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23908	Dear ladies, dear gentlemen! Estimated delegation of the government, of which we have two people here today! Estimated sub-parliament! [[refering to the number of Members present]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order for us to be able to discuss a budget at all, millions of Austrians need to work hard daily and pay for their taxes. This gives us the opportunity to talk about a budget today. Part of these Austrians, namely 250 000, are one-person companies. These are many small self-employed people who are now particularly interested in the discussion about this profit-free amount. That's why I want to. Mr President, I would like to stress this today. In recent weeks and months, you have already caused enough uncertainty with the light discussion GmbH, with the announcement that there is little legal certainty. I believe that we should use the budget discussion to take those measures which do not directly cost money, but which are very likely to be a signal to those who also deliver and who pay in the state bags. That is why we have a very concrete proposal for the profit-free amount, which is going to increase the base base from €30 000 per year to €60 000, while at the same time freeing people from having to buy shares annually or to make, in principle, forced investments. Many of you may know that in December the tax advisor or tax advisor calls and asks if you have already bought the securities. This is somehow not quite the green approach. We therefore have quite a concrete statement, and I therefore also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's a suggestion, you'll hear hundreds more of me. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e23980	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly put in place and is included in the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24057	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24078	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In the debates I have heard specifically from the opposition series, words such as “ too few offensive measures”, “too few pay closures”. – One thing you can hold here: You can't make the opposition right, because too little is saved. But this is probably due to the definition of opposition as a sum of all those who are not involved in the government and do not agree with government work. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That wouldn't have to be so!]] The Faymann I government has brought Austria through the crisis well. This path will continue and the budget procedure will take the first step in this direction. In fact, it ensures that the need for consolidation is met and the refinancing of the federal government is ensured. In principle, the commitment was evenly allocated to the departments, with some exceptions. This commitment excludes the fields of research, state teachers, universities, pensions, public services and infrastructure ÖBB. In this context, they allow me to say a few words about the importance of research and the funding of universities. This is where we set the course for future jobs. This will create the basis for staying ahead in the economy, in science, in competition and in research, because only if we stay ahead will business centres in Austria settle and create high-quality jobs. And if, on this occasion, we are creating new universities, we also need to ensure the financing of existing universities. But not in the form that the existing money is distributed to all the same, but that additional money is also brought in so that universities have at least equal or more resources available for their work. We need to focus on the best in Europe. In the Scandinavian countries Sweden, Finland, Denmark, research rates ranged from 3 to 3.6 percent in 2012. There's air up for Austria. But we are on the right track when I look forward to the fact that research expenditure in 2000 was 1.93 percent, and in 2012 2.84 percent. This means that even in times of budget consolidation, more has been given to research. It is important to put these offensive measures in place and invest in the future. The Federal Government's aim is to increase in the areas of research, technology and investment and innovation to the top of the most innovative countries. The 2014 budget, and the 2014 budget to be decided in the spring, provide the basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24115	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24136	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, particularly members of the Economic Union! Today, we are supposed to win through a budget provisor, which is characterized by undefined savings – not prioritized as Bruno Rossmann has called it – which face a comprehensive regulatory framework on the part of revenue. This means the planned limitation of the profit-free amount, the non-removability of labour costs and the adventurous construction of the “GmbH-privileged” – even if it may not be so now. The government thus communicates to small enterprises, in particular, one: Legal uncertainty. EPU and founders are not only irritated, they are really angry. Does anyone of the government parties actually talk to companies at some point? – That can't be, otherwise there wouldn't be these short-sighted proposals to raise money. It is not worth much, either, if positive initiatives are announced elsewhere. And yes, these positive initiatives are also available. At the beginning of December, I listened carefully to Brigitte Jank – who is not here now – when she added some things that have now also been included in the government programme. There is talk of de-bureaucratisation, testing and disseminating the potential for reducing additional labour costs, adapting the trade regulation to changed social conditions. But what does that mean? - That's what they're doing. only headlines, these are flowery announcements, which are long known, little concrete, and especially one not, they are not Terminized. Here, every vision to promote entrepreneurship itself is missing. We should actually talk about how, in particular, we can make it easier for small and small enterprises to grow, to give people a job. We should talk about how start-ups quickly bring innovation to market maturity – this is important for global competition – by a rapid and substantial reduction in service providers' contributions, a reform of the trade order, the promotion of private investment and risk capital, crowd investment, crowdfunding and so on. This creates innovation, creating employment. Instead, there is a tax-change law before us, with which good developments are reversed. We want to set up the living room, because the SPÖ fires the kitchen, the ÖVP sees and then acts as a fire brigade. At least the company tax is supposed to be 1st. January 2016 will be abolished. That's good, but late. This could happen next year from our point of view. That is why we are putting forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] And if we are already in the process of abolishing unnecessary taxes, we are also taking the minimum corporation tax into account. The minimum-coast tax companies in a phase where liquidity is very important, additional and unnecessary. The money should remain as a working capital in the companies. The tax revenue does not escape us. Köst will be discharged if the profits in the companies finally take place. In this sense, we shall put forward the following second motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to forward to the National Council, as soon as possible, a draft amendment to the Corporate Tax Act, which provides for the abolition of the minimum corporate tax by 01.01.2015.” The National Council wants to look beyond the typing errors that I have now noticed while reading. Last but not least to the theatre with the GmbH light: In the last year, it will be decided, in itself, to reduce the minimum stock capital to the level of a European average. Many of those who may have worked successfully as EPUs before then have actually established a GmbH light. And now, just half a year later, these founders are being labeled “privileged” and the demand is being raised again. And why? – Only to be able to cash more minimum-coast! I'll tell you a secret. It is not the function of the parent capital to provide the Ministry of Finance with as much minimum corporate tax as possible. The capital of the capital Founding is largely meaningless. It is not in a taxable relationship with the protection of creditors. How high is the stock capital supposed to be ideal? Are these €35 000, or do we have to continue to increase? Or is it possible that this amount varies from one company to another? No one asks these questions. And no one answers these questions above all. The amount of capital is completely arbitrary. Entrepreneurs are able to manage their companies independently. The minimum stock capital is an expression of a premeditation of entrepreneurs who are no longer modern. So let's continue the good step of GmbH light and we reduce the parent capital to zero at the time of foundation. It will be further built out of corporate profits. We therefore propose the introduction of a “Zero” GmbH and submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] With the measures planned under the tax-amending law for the reconstruction of the GmbH light, under the limitation of the profit-free amount, Austria would actually become a hostile country. Although no functioning company will be faced with existential problems, you will not seriously expect more employment to be triggered. This is anti-union policy. The potential for new jobs lies precisely with small and smallest enterprises, with the civilian capitalists. By the way, we will also support the Greens' request for a profit-free amount. Although we are not friends of the planned cover, at least 80 percent of the EPUs are achieved by this measure, and this is a good step. I also appeal, in particular, to the entrepreneurial conscience of those representatives of the ÖVP who are members of the Economic Federation. I invite you to vote in favour of our requests in the sense of a constructive further development of the Austrian economic location. Do not continue the business of SPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24266	The following is the opinion of Mrs Mag. Steßl. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24288	Mr President. Estimated colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a success model, and this has shown that Austria has come through the economic crisis very well and is far better than other EU countries. Austria has the lowest unemployment rate, still rising employment, interest rates are at a historical low and economic performance per capita is the second highest in the European Union. What is the basis for this successful way of Austria? This success is based on the efforts of workers, the innovative strength of enterprises, the export strength of our domestic companies, the European orientation of this country, but also on a functioning social partnership and a prudent and above all balanced budget and a balanced financial policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The task of the Federal Government is to create framework conditions so that this successful path of Austria is still possible. And the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is the first step today. It is important in this budget provisional that we make a balanced consolidation, especially a steady consolidation, so that we can achieve a structural zero deficit by 2016. Unlike other countries, we have chosen a path of continuous consolidation, we have saved purpose and have also made offensive measures. It is important to me personally that, when we are talking about offensive measures, we invest in the development of day-to-day care of pupils, in childcare, in care, but especially in the development of social services also in rural areas, set out measures for young people, but also measures to promote women. It is also important, in particular, to develop and maintain areas in the budget, especially in budgetary hard times, in order to be able to implement these measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The state also saves itself. We have planned savings of around €500 million in the 2014 budget, as well as in the government programme. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “with yourself ” mean?]] Before the decision was taken in the Committee on Budgets, there were still shifts between the various ministries, and I would like to mention in particular that I would also like to thank the individual ministers for their excellent cooperation and, above all, also for being together in budgetaryly difficult times. On behalf of the previous speaker, Mr Alm, who has already spoken a lot about the tax-amending law or has already tabled the various motions for resolutions: Mr Alm, the tax-change law is the next step we will also have in the budget process. We will have a financial committee, and there I am already excited about the discussion. But I do not think we are necessarily using a “Zero” GmbH as a foundation-friendly strategy, especially if I look at the consumer protection aspect. If you had looked more closely at the government template that happened to the Council of Ministers today, you would know that the minimum price for the establishment is €500 a year. Calculate this 500 € per year by twelve and explain it to an employee or an employee who also has to work hard for her money every month and do not reach any privileges! The labour force and, in particular, the labour force remain heavily burdened. It is precisely here that there should also be a certain degree of tax justice. With adaptations, ecologizations and also the closing of loopholes, the High House of this tax-change law is present. The budgetary steps set up to date are important, but it is also necessary that further steps follow. For example, both the chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor have set up a six-year group to coordinate the tax reform commission politically. I too will be part of this group, and together with experts we will discuss how we can shape the tax structure differently, because the working people expect a discharge after the crisis, when we have developed budgetary scope, especially a structural change in the Income Tax Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So you see, ladies and gentlemen, we have set ourselves ambitious targets for the 2014/2015 budget year. I should like to stress once again, especially because I have been listening to this House for four years, that I wish to have a good cooperation with all the Members of this House, and I should like to stress that in my financial and budgetary matters you will always find a partner for discussion and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24344	Before speaking, Mr Obernosterer, I can only say briefly that Mr Magistrate has the power to do so. All applications submitted are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24467	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24490	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, by the Secretary of State and by some previous speakers the importance of the legislative budget. I am not of the opinion of my predecessor, who meant that this legal budget procedure should be whipped through by force. We know that it is important and right, because of the shifts in government and knowing that in the first half of the year more money will be spent in individual areas and revenue will only be scattered later, and taking into account the €500 million that will be saved next year, that the government will work properly. On the other hand, the government is being rebuffed, it is not doing a proper job, and that is why, as has been said, this decision is important today. It has also been quoted today by the Court of Auditors and here again and again in this House. He is important, he points out where one can save, and simply shows the mistakes made in our daily political activity, in the ministries and state secretariats. Every operation is also lit up and it is shown where you actually spend no money and where we can save again. This is also to be taken to heart, and I therefore do not understand Mr Darmann's speech at all, which quotes the Court of Auditors over and over again. If you look at the Court of Auditors' report, you know that my home country, Carinthia, which has not been specifically governed by the ÖVP in recent years – we were part of it – has found itself in the implementation of the Court of Auditors' requirements in the last third. The Court of Auditors says that this security reform is important for people. I know that mayors have to represent something else, that makes sense to me, but that is important for people to ensure more security. We know we have security in the state to defend. We are still among the safest countries in the world. And why? – Because there was a reform in 1991 that looked into the future. In 2001, there was a reform, but there are still countries that are a little better than we are, but we want to be the best. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] Experts have prepared and recommended, approved by the Court of Auditors, so we would like to see these reforms in the sense of the security of the Austrian population. It is not to be believed that there will be work against it to make political little money, just because there are municipal council elections at the door, as in Carinthia. I'm not supposed to have it. I am a politician because I want to take responsibility for this country, and that is where security belongs. There's no more cops. The rural area: No district loses only one policeman, they all stay in the field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24531	I call Mr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24552	Minister! I cannot now welcome the Secretary of State. It is significant, as I said today, that three posts are bound there. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where is the government bank?]] We're talking about the budget and no one's sitting on the government bank. That's all right. We're just saying that's significant. But now, because the time has progressed, I want to talk about a complex that involves the colleges. I would like to report on an Austrian success story. For 20 years, the specialized universities in Austria have been a success story. Unfortunately, this has been increasingly threatened by the Federal Government since 2010. Why? – The University of Applied Sciences has been gradually expanded until 2010. From there, there is a standstill following the last high school plan for the years 2010/11 to 2012/13, which was created in 2009. In this last high school plan, it is stated in the Preambel: “The current high-school plan 2010/11 to 2012/13 is in principle a sign of qualitative development and consolidation.” Translation means we're not going to expand, because there's no money for it. The report also states: "The necessary fiscal consolidation of the federal government, as well as the currently economically challenging framework conditions, do not allow for quantitative growth in the high-school sector to date. For this reason, for the next three years of study (2010/11 to 2012/13) no high-school development and financing plan as before is presented, but only a high-school plan, which sets out the content priorities of the high-school sector for the next three years of study.” Thus, this very important sector has been missing since the winter semester of 2013, i.e. from now on, any planning basis from the sides of politics. Furthermore, since 2009, the funding rates for a high-school course have not been increased – all of this is charged over the course of studies. What does this mean by inflation? – There are around 12 percent less resources available for a study place in the last four years. From our point of view, this is an unacceptable state, especially since the current Federal Government now promises to expand both the high school places to 50,000 places and the rate of funding under a future high school development and financing plan. – It all sounds great, but of course all of this is under all these reservations. I would also like to quote the President of the Chamber of Labour, Mr Kaske, who feels that this is an blatant social injustice as it is at present. He says that it is a scandal that currently 39 000 of 55 000 applicants must be sent away each year. It therefore supports a massive expansion of the places, not least because this is a question of social justice. I now allow myself to make two requests in this regard: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Karlsböck and other Members of Parliament on the increase in the rate of funding for the University of Applied Sciences The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth, who is responsible for the management of the Federal Ministry of Science and Research, is asked to increase the funding rates for higher education places by at least 12 percent without delay.” We kindly ask you to go there.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24610	The two applications are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24732	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24753	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, you mentioned it, I too very much welcome the amendment tabled by the Budget Committee, which is committed not to further shortening the appropriations for bilateral development cooperation in 2014. This is very pleasant and very fine. I assume that in 2014 we finally hit the bottom of the valley and in 2015 the funds will rise. These are means by which we help, for example, to establish water cooperatives in Uganda, Kisoro, which can provide thousands of people with healthy drinking water. For example, funds that help women in Ethiopia to claim their rights and access the justice system. These are funds used to build small hydropower plants in Bhutan, so that hundreds of houses can be supplied with electricity, by the way, in such a way that even the nesting sites of the Black Crans are not threatened by underground pipelines. I am sure that we will also do something about Bhutan's gross national happiness. There are also projects such as in Chisinau, in Moldova, where hospitalized children who are long in hospital are taught. Women in Nispaki get water supply. I was there last year and asked them what they will do with the time they have gained, with the about three to four hours each of these women will have more in the future. One of them said: I'm sure I'll have a lot more time to smile. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very good step towards bilateral development cooperation. For the Official Development Assistance, of course, it does not bring much if, as it were, we are turning from the multilateral to the bilaterals, I think we both need. These are not communicating vessels. The multilateral EZA has its rights, as does the bilateral EZA. I'd like both of us to be stable. I think that both are very important, but at least this step is to make sure that in 2014 the Bilaterals are not further reduced, a very important foundation for what we have set out in the Coalition Agreement, namely to develop a legal level plan. On the one hand, it helps to ensure that there are real increases in the bilateral EZA that these expenditures are no longer counted as discretionary expenditures, thereby making them can no longer be cut down as easily as it is now, and on the other hand, better coordination of all departments is needed, because it should be a step-by-step plan to increase the overall ODA. I'm looking forward to work. Someone will find himself doing the work. I can assure you that, as a Socialist parliamentary club, we are very willing to involve ourselves very much and also to invest. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24799	Mrs Windbüchler-Saussill has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24820	Mr President. Yes, there will be someone who actually takes development cooperation seriously. So is Sebastian Kurz’s quote: “Development cooperation has so far not been a luxury for Austria.” Or: “As far as State resources are concerned, we are still very far from the goal.” Sebastian Kurz, the new Foreign Minister, is, of course, perfectly right. But this seems to be just a political analysis for the new Foreign Minister and no political mission, because this budget procedure shows exactly how it is going: no increase in the bilateral EZA, no support for multilateral organisations, no support for the poorest in the world. Austria is far from the 0.7 percent target. Direct bilateral development cooperation has also been disgracefully shortened in recent years. New cuts are threatening, because there is no plan for 2015. For 2014 there are the reworks, but no plan for the next years. It will be time to act together, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e24912	The requested application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25005	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25026	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important first: The Spindelegger plan with the zero deficit 2016 has to be implemented! We must face up to reality, public debt has risen in almost all Western industrial nations in recent years, not only in Europe, but also in Japan and the USA. We currently have debt of 77.1 percent of GDP in Austria. This is the reality. Of course, it is also true that Austria is very good compared to most other European countries. In line with the target zero deficit 2016, we want to: Budgetary provisional decision to apply until the decision of the 2014 and 2015 budgets. This happens in particular – it has already been mentioned today – to represent the new distribution of resorts. It is clear that the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 applies, in so far as those subdivisions where there are lower spending limits apply, of course, these lower amounts. The discretionary expenditure provided for in the budget provisor is reduced by 6.6 percent. On the basis of the government programme, the Federal Ministry of Finance has given this amount, the ministers decide in detail where they want to save it. There are some accentuations. You know, the ÖVP is a Christian-social party and of course it is important not to save on the poorest. Federal Minister Kurz has recently announced that the cuts – the word game is almost available – are taken back in development cooperation. Of course, the ÖVP is also a family party. I do not have to do this for long, you know the three-stage increase in the family allowance that Mrs Federal Minister Karmasin has already announced. Finally, since the light is already flashing: The ÖVP is, of course, also an economic party and thus the party of service providers. It is our declared goal to implement the Spindelegger Plan 2016. In times like these, where a budget needs to be very carefully balanced, everyone has to make his contribution. However, in the future, the state must tighten the belt, and citizens must not be burdened any more. I am sure that the coalition partner will also be ready to talk about this in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25071	Mr Dr. Kassinger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25093	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Today, the legislative budget is to be adopted in Parliament in 2014. I would like to address the sub-group 14, military affairs and sports. Years ago, by means of an all-party consensus, the Federal Government Reform Commission found that the models it presented required a current defense set of around 1.11 to 1.18 percent of GDP. Unfortunately, we are miles away today. The defense budget is currently around 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product – an international comparison of catastrophic value! Already with the Federal Financial Framework Act, the subgroup 14 and therefore essentially the Federal Army were obliged to save approximately € 530 million in addition. The amendment tabled by the government parties in the Budget Committee last week now calls for a commitment of approximately €500 million to be made to the budget. According to the analysis of the budget service, these are de facto cuts. The UG 14 is worth €45.4 million, which is almost 10 percent, which now still need to be saved in 2014. This is, in our view, a responsible budgetary policy! These further cuts endanger the quality of training, the security of our soldiers in all operations and, in principle, the ability of the Federal Government to fulfil its constitutional tasks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How is this budgetary attack to be implemented on the German army? – We strongly expect – and we will take a very close look at this in the future – that the extended service plan will be deleted, that the military service allowance will be cancelled, that contract staff will be cancelled. So it will be particularly hard for the army’s servants. Finally, a few sentences on political responsibility: It is obvious that priority responsibility lies with SPÖ and its ministers Darabos and Klug. But also the ÖVP, which is gladly represented as the party for the German army, has at least as much responsibility for this security-political capitulation. In fact, it was ÖVP Minister Platter who in 2006 caused the reduction of the duration of the military service from eight to six months and thus initiated the era of the medium-term de facto abolition of the militia. And it was always ÖVP finance ministers who, if not actively supporting these ongoing cuts of funds in the military budget, at least took note of them and did not prevent them. A party that has a heart for our army acts differently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For these reasons, the following motion for a resolution by Mr Kunasek, Mr Kassinger, Mr Bösch, Mr Podgorschek, Mr Fuchs and others, on the sufficient budgetary resources of the Austrian Federal Government: The National Council wants to decide: “In the course of the budget creation, the Federal Government will be asked to ensure that the German army is equipped with a sufficient budget.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25165	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25229	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25251	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the core of the situation? – It’s about saving, something that in principle is not unpopular among the population. It is a necessity for the government budget. However, there is a clear tendency that the other one should start saving each time. It's supposed to make the other one serious, the Floriani principle has high economics. The motive of the Federal Government to save is more than comprehensible. But it is also clear that all these thoughts must be shared. If we sum up the criticism of opposition and the sparse alternative proposals, then we come to additional expenditure in the billions. Depending on the political camp, one has articulated the favorite projects. You haven't forgotten on a horse. Much is actually desirable. In education: Of course, we would like to have more funding to expand all day school forms. The quality of the health system: There are legitimate concerns in all federal states. Transport, infrastructure and social services: Many projects and many investments would be needed in addition. I understand, however, that from the point of view of overall responsibility, much is currently not possible for the Federal Government. The Court of Auditors can indeed be consulted on the way in which the opposition is so passionate. According to the President of the Court of Auditors, the structural zero deficit will not last until 2016. Scientists note that it is already possible, namely, to set targets and to save expenditure on a targeted basis. It's clear: The idea of saving must be demanded by everyone! Social balance is crucial for us Social Democrats. The essential pillars of the social state must be preserved, even expanded. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact we could have saved ourselves the discussion, because with wealth taxes that meet the really wealthy, we would have an estimated surplus income of between €1.5 billion and € 2 billion. With this sum, we could indeed have made many additional investments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, there is currently no majority for wealth taxes. However, the SPÖ will continue to be very committed to a fairer tax system. I'm optimistic! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25299	Mr Zinggl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25320	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! After the Minister of Finance has not answered our urgent request, specifically our question of financial security of the ORF and thus also of the film industry, nothing remains left to us but to submit a motion for a resolution to check the way the government parties hold it at all. The application is very moderate, so that everyone can actually go along with it: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to take the necessary financial measures to ensure that the film-economicly relevant points of the government programme are fulfilled and that the ORF can continue to play its important role in the further development of the film location Austria. It is not a question of the Federal Government not re-funding the funds that have been lost from the ORF through the exemption of fees and thereby bringing it into a financial emergency so as to make it politically dependent and fit. It can't be. And it can't be that the ORF is taking the film industry into hostages either. But I would also like to take this opportunity to address a request from the liberals in connection with the salaries of the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseum directors. In principle, we Greens believe that these salaries are very high and that the increases that come about almost annually are not justified. But, Lord. Mr Rosenkranz, the request is not correct because it is one thing which is not the Minister, nor the Parliament, but which is determined by the Supervisory Boards, which is why we have no influence on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25371	The application submitted was sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25426	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25447	Mr President. Dear members of the government! Dear Members of the National Council! High house! As auditors and business consultants, I have often been accommodated in the civil profession by entering a unit where a new leadership, where a new Supervisory Board has taken over the tasks. That's the same way it's here in this house. There has been a new election, there is a new government, there are many new managing directors, new government members. There are many new national councillors, many supervisory councils who want to participate here, and this is an opportunity. How do you deal with such a situation when you get into a new house when you take on a new task? – One analyzes the starting situation, one makes specifications, one makes a division of work, one ensures liquidity, and sees that as many as possible work wisely to move forward in general. For analysis: During the last negotiations, it was widely discussed about budget gaps, deficits, and, of course, there were different results. When I take the last “profile” – a leaf that is not necessarily very positive to us – it says here: Austria has actually mastered the crisis at the second best in the EU; this is due to the good entrepreneurs, but also to the government, because the government is also responsible for the appropriate conditions. At the same time, it can be said that this analysis can also maintain that the owners, our citizens, have been very well served, because the social component is very high, and it is also very much spent on these expenditures. After the analysis, there is a division of work, which we have decided today. The individual managing directors have divided the work, and now we have to provide these managing directors with the appropriate resources with human resources and financial resources. In this situation, the most important thing is to stabilise the financial situation in order to ensure liquidity – the Secretary of State said it. This too is an important point that we are dealing with today. As a junk-ordered one, I'm probably as well as many young ministers on the government bank and many of the opposition: We have many ideas, we want to bring them in, and now is the time to bring them in. You have made a lot of proposals today. We put them directly with the ministers, directly with the State Secretary and we are now trying to bring our ideas into the real budget. In order to make this possible, however, we need this budget procedure, and everyone who is responsible for Austria here must take care of it accordingly. I therefore hope that this budget proposal will be as broad as possible, so that we can continue together here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25496	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25517	High house! Mr President. Estimated government members! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Citizens on the screens and in the house! It's about the budget. There are allies for the NEOS, also for the Greens, also for the Stronach team and for the FPÖ, namely no one lower than Christoph Leitl! Today he is quoted in several newspapers: “I sit on neos and greens, they have sprang up on our train,” said Leitl. “I suffer from this policy that ignores the change of the economic world.” Christoph Leitl can count on us. The big question is: Can Christoph Leitl count on his own representatives? - We'll find out today. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Perhaps the hazelsteiner has “own MP”! We have freely elected Members!]] I quote Peter Haubner, Secretary General of the Economic Federation. He announces in the press: “We’ll resist in a massive way.” Peter Haubner, don't read newspaper, but listen, please! ‘This remains untouched.’ “This remains untouched” – you have the opportunity to leave it untouched today. We shall make the request. It was also said: On the other hand, we will “fight ” as an economic association. We would also like to leave the design of GmbH Light that way. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Brigitte Jank – not yet there, will soon come – is quoted: “This new regulation would be a massive deterioration for the self-employed, which we cannot accept.” “We cannot accept” – we will see if Brigitte Jankaufstand or sit down. [[Abg. Rädler: You are Haselsteiner!]] “We will work to keep the design opportunities for economic operators broad.” “We will not accept any tax disadvantages to the self-employed during the negotiations.” – Brigitte Jank. Christoph Leitl says: We will “fight, fight, fight ”! He's doing this from Mexico. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle has already proved that one can also stand up against the club line. So it's basically possible and imaginable, you just have to want. And: You also have to believe in your own words! Therefore, the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to prevent the proposed novelle in the Income Tax Act by means of the tax-change law on the redesign of the profit-free amount and to maintain the status quota (as of 29 January 2014).” It is therefore a question of not limiting the amount of profit. That is a question of fiscal justice. At that time you introduced it as equivalent for the sixth of the year, 13./14. It is a question of capital formation, which is particularly important. It is also a question for the one-person companies, the more than 200 000 we have, which of course have very volatile annual revenues, once again a little. They also need these instruments of design to form reserves and equity. You all know that! I don't know, either you slept in government negotiations, or you just didn't care. If Christoph Leitl says that we jumped on his train, then I think of it as a very creative story. The fact is that the Wirtschaftsbund has seen a great deal of criticism from entrepreneurs, especially from small entrepreneurs, from single-person entrepreneurs. I think the Economics Federation just observed: There is a protest movement that is not to be stopped, and that is why we are taking the lead in this protest movement – at least the head of the Economic Union! Today we will see if the Members do. Estimated economic Federal Deputies, if: They sit there today, then I would never like to hear again of the ÖVP “Detachment of the Economy”. Then we need a dephaseation of the ÖVP! Because then it's a pure flag that's running all the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25602	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25654	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25675	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For 2014 and 2015, as we know, there will be a double budget. This double budget will be available by the end of April. The Parliamentary Roadmap is closed, we already know it. This proposal builds mainly on the 2013 budget estimate. One has been very careful and very economical, therefore also the restrictions on discretionary expenditure, which have already been particularly taken up by the opposition. My very much appreciated However, ladies and gentlemen, let me point out a problem for workers, because this has been particularly evident in the 2013 budget, and this is also a little self-critical: The wage tax revenue of the Budgets 2013 account for almost €24 billion. That is to say, we have almost the same level as in the case of VAT on sales here. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance is, of course, pleased to see the Secretary-General of the State. But this is a problem for workers, and they are beginning to despair. I am very grateful, Mrs State Secretary, that you have pointed out to the workers that you are now using a tax structure commission, because we need it very urgently. We also see it at the collective treaty negotiations: We cannot negotiate so much that the tax does not take away a very large part. The cold progression, ladies and gentlemen, is merciless, and that should be changed! I can make this a little clear. If we have increased gross earnings by 3.6 percent in 2011, the increase in wage taxes is almost 6 percent. Although we were very successful in 2012 for the employees and 4.3 percent negotiated, the increase in the wage tax amounted to 7 percent. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, it will, of course, be an effort by our government parties to help the workers here! In Austria we have the second highest tax rate in Europe. It's lowered to at least 25 percent, and that's the goal we've set ourselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, there has been a press conference of our Chamber of Workers President Rudi Kaske, who has presented a very interesting proposal. He cited a study by the University of Linz in which it was about to introduce a property tax with a free limit of € 1 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That means that all those who own more than € 1 million would have to take a share. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 5 per cent of the budget. In other words, the wealth is concentrated in Austria at very few and bunked there. We simply have to jump over the shadow – this has already been pointed out by my previous speaker – to talk about capital taxes; above all, because it is also about counter-financing and because it is also about areas of play that we need, ladies and gentlemen, very much valued! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add one more sentence because this was also the subject today, namely the saving of police inspections. I'm very self-critical, too. If structural changes occur when measures are being changed by the structures, there is of course fear, there is of course also criticism of those concerned, but one thing I must say already: As the communication has now taken place, this is absolutely not okay, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. There are better ways of doing this. Today, I have had the opportunity to talk to three mayors from my narrowest environment, from Hallstatt, Gosau and St. Wolfgang. They still have no official understanding of the official bodies about the procedure, who know this exclusively from the media, from the newspaper. That's not good, it's not good, it's different, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the budget provisor is concerned: I believe that this is well prepared, and that is why it will also be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25757	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear viewers on TV screens! Do you know what's double morality? Do you know the word double morals? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: If you change the party!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to give you two examples. First example: FPÖ-Landesobmann Dieter Egger from Vorarlberg on the closures of police inspections: “In this form acceptable.” It is crucial that there is no reduction in staff levels but, on the contrary, an increase. – Not only that this statement is unacceptable, it is also completely wrong. And now I would be interested to see colleagues Bösch and Themessl from FPÖ Vorarlberg vote here on their own motion for a resolution on exactly these services, whose closure of Egger is acceptable. I'm excited how they'll vote. I'll take a look at this, ladies and gentlemen. That's double-moral what you're doing! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Wenninger.]] The second point concerns Mr Sieber of ÖVP Vorarlberg. He's here too. He is a protection child of Mr. Sicherlandesrat Schwerzler of the ÖVP from the Bregenz Forest. Mr Schwarzler has promoted him in the election campaign, and he should represent his interests here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Sieber voted in favour of the police station closures in December. ==References== January 2014 Landesrat Schwärzler, thus his mentor, says about the post closures: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For the ÖVP Vorarlberg, the closures of police services are not in question. Ladies and gentlemen on the screens and inside here! Make yourself a picture! That's double morality. So you can believe ÖVP and FPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25856	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that, after this vote, we are now voting on the next item on the agenda, because there are no speakers who have been reported on this item – only by doing so. I should also like to say that, in two cases, the vote has been called for by name, that there have been small craftsmanship in both applications, but I will allow both of them. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 22 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign on this matter. – The draft was therefore adopted at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on the red and black closures of police services. [[Abg. Mayer: He's not here at all!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Where is the applicant?]] The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against 'no' vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25938	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e25977	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 163; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 43, No votes: 120. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich; Franz; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of port plotter, hagen, haider, houser, courter, moor; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Laust, Lintl; Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; Vetter, Vilimsky; Refusal torphere, winter, worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Moser, Muchich, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann, Rudas; Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Schwennner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Weninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbühler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöginger, Wurm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26161	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues, on the reduction of federal and national party funding and the use of the less-costs for the renovation of the Austrian Parliament. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the suspension of salary increases for highly-dominated cultural managers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on the preparation of the 2014 budget accompanying law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köchl, colleagues, on the doubling of the basic tax exemption in the Income Tax Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, colleagues and colleagues on new legislation in the corporate tax law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mr Alm, colleagues, on the new regulation of social tax in the Capital Tax Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, colleagues and colleagues concerning the establishment of a “Zero” GmbH. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues, on the preparation of a high-school development and financing plan. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues, on the increase in the rate of funding for higher education places. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, ladies and gentlemen, on: Finally, Austria's development cooperation is on a stable footing. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kunasek, colleagues and colleagues on sufficient budgetary resources for the Austrian army. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on the financial situation of the film industry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the maintenance of the profit-free amount in the Income Tax Act. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'yes', those who vote against 'no' vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26430	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26465	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 165; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 50, ‘No’ votes: 115. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the maintenance of the profit-free amount in the Income Tax Act is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich; Franz; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hable, oats, hagen, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, connoisseur; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Lauch, Lintl, Loacker; Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pox, Podgorschek; Smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik, Vetter; Refusal torphere, winter, worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lithuania, liptic, lopatka, lueger Angela; Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Muchich, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann, Rudas; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Schwennner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbühler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöginger, Wurm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl. [[20:29:36]] 7. Point Third reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 42/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Karlheinz Kopf, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dieter Brosz, MSc, Dr. Kathrin Nachbaur, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Law 1975) (4d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26679	Now we're on the 7th. Agenda item. The requirements of § 108 of the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled. We shall come to the vote. Since this draft is in accordance with § 82 para. 2 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure can only be decided in the presence of at least half of the Members, I note them. I would like to ask the honourable Members to give their assent to this draft law, which includes the title and receipt in 4 of the supplements, at the third reading. speaking sign. – The present draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[20:30:51]] 8. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues in a Federal Constitutional Act amending the B-VG and the Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act (22/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26739	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26767	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Yes, the request is actually about an old green concern and, as I know and also hope, a SPÖ issue that you may support this time from the SPÖ. I'd like to do it briefly. It is a social-political, but also women's-politically important point. We have already discussed it in the last legislative period. It's not a lot of money, but it's very relevant money – that's for people who get emergency aid. There is, as we know, a ceiling on emergency aid workers. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr President, perhaps you can somehow reduce noise levels, because no one is listening at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26794	I'd like to follow that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that noise levels be reduced to allow the honourable Member to continue her speech unhindered.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26809	Thank you, Mr President. It is about emergency aid and accountability. We know that, on the one hand, there are very, very low ceilings in emergency aid and on the other – and on the other hand, my plea to SPÖ – there is an accounting of the partner income or in-house income; but it is usually so that 90 percent of the women concerned are women who do not guarantee them individual security anymore, but that most of the time the amount of emergency aid, if the partner income is appropriate, tends to be against zero. This also means that, in certain situations – for example, after the unemployed were taken into account and then the partner, what usually happens, becomes an emergency aid beneficiary – it can happen that the family income is reduced by 40 percent. If we think about what that means when it comes to normal purchases in normal everyday life, when it comes to the apartment or the car, but this also means when it comes to special purchases, then we see that minus 40 percent of family household income is unbearable. It also makes women dependent on their partner. This is a situation that we have wanted to abolish for a long time, and I hope that this will be supported by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26852	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26873	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Schwentner, it is true that we have already dealt with this request more often than not, also in the Committee. It is also true that we are particularly positive about this issue by the SPÖ women. That's not a secret. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But you never agreed!]] In this connection, however, I would like to point out at first reading that we have made some improvements in the field of emergency aid, as a result of the Committee's discussion. I think all those who have worked in the Committee know that too. We have now calculated emergency aid by 95 per cent of unemployment benefit, which can be up to 60 per cent. In addition, family allowances are included. This means that the basis for calculating emergency aid can be up to 80 percent of unemployment benefit. We have also made the following change: When calculating the partner's income, the total amount may not fall within the scope of the family allowance rate. I know these are little improvements, but we've made improvements. In addition, we have already agreed with the need-oriented minimum guarantee, I would like to say that at least one element in unemployment benefits is introduced. It is also necessary to think about the fact that there is now also the need-oriented minimum guarantee and that it is in country competence. I would also like to say that we are currently looking at the emergency situation of the person concerned and, because of this possible emergency situation, we are paying out emergency aid or not. If one makes a change to the fact that the emergency situation is no longer taken into account, that would mean that it is actually a reduced unemployment benefit, and this is unlimited, because the emergency aid is paid out indefinitely. It is necessary to apply every year, but only to have the emergency checked again. So I think it would be a real system change. That is why we need to discuss this in detail in the Committee. I am also of your opinion, Mrs Schwentner, I would just ask you to: You have some mistakes in your request. Maybe you've already come up with it. Especially at the first point, you wrote that the word “contract insurance” should be improved in Article 11 C 11. But that is not Article 11, but Article 10 – otherwise the request is not true. A few other volatile errors are also inside. Perhaps you will read about it again, that the application will also be properly submitted.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26921	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26942	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am proud to be able to live in a social state – at least with a social rate of 34 percent of the gross domestic product – in which citizens in need are supported. However, I cannot get away with the request, because to provide emergency aid without having to prove an emergency, in my opinion, opens the door and door to abuse and supports the convenience of inconsistencies. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: That's always your premise!]] Especially in this case, it is necessary to distinguish between volunteers and involuntary workers as well as those who are able to work and those who are unable to work. The aim is to support the incapacity of the unemployed and the temporary workers in need. The top priority for me is also the careful handling of taxpayers' money. That is why I also believe that it is not possible to consider the income of the budget, because the fact is that the financial burden in a common budget is lower per person, and this must also be taken into account in the future. For me, reintegration into the labour market is a priority, and for that we have already put in place a number of measures, including the replacement levy paid by us entrepreneurs. Therefore: Priority will be given to such measures to avoid abuse and to the motivation for reintegration into the labour market. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e26979	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27000	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, yes, it is right that we have discussed this request several times. He's been brought in by us too. I now have to say a few things to the colleague of the ÖVP: I think it's pretty hypocritical when you're talking about abuse here. This has nothing to do with abuse, because one can verify whether it is misused or not. Mr Schwentner said that it was ultimately also a matter of a certain dependence on the partner. This is certainly also a reason. But it is not only women, but of course men who are affected. There is also a second point on which this is equally true, namely in the case of pensions. Because it hits even more women, because these are usually those who go home with 200, 300 € pension. We have also made several requests for this in the last legislative period, and we have also discussed it. This law is, in fact, a completely unfair one. As you say, the family is counted together, the partner income is taken into account, but family taxation does not exist then. There are then no special discounts. There the income is no longer counted together, for example if it is a family with several children. There's no family tax split either. So you have to agree on what you want. In fact, you just want to see that you save everywhere and those who need it, especially the families, withdraw the money. - That's your policy. It's not social. That's classic ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have already shown it in your speech: They won't move again this time. I think this is a pity because I believe that there is, in fact, a majority outside the EIA, who believes that this system should be rethinked once, just as the pension system is urgently to be rethinked. sen. We will not leave you alone even in this period. We will not accept this ÖVP hypocrisy here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27048	I am trying to avoid using the term “hypocritical” as possible in the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then we use a different word!]] Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27080	High house! Mr President, I should like to thank the It is very important to me to stress that social weakness and those who need it really get support from the state and the government. But I believe that the Austrian social state debates are going in the wrong direction. Throughout Europe, such as in Holland, it is stressed that the social state is actually on the descent of the branch according to the European model of recent years and decades. This is what Mario Draghi, the head of the ECB, says the Dutch king, saying many Dutch politicians who are always very avant-garde in the social debates. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I think we should move away from the small and small ones and re-adjust them on individual social issues to a fundamental and courageous debate: What is a good social state, what is a social market economy in the third millennium? We always lie to ourselves in the bag and therefore come with arguments from the 1970s, where there has been much more money. Now we have social budgets, which are very large and which are partly managed in the wrong directions. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think we should all share the courage to really confess: We want to help the weak and the needy, but we do not want to further expand a social state that is inviting us to abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27127	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 22/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. On a given occasion, I would like to say that no single call for order has been issued today, and I thank you for the excellent session discipline. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[20:41:10]] 9. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on Pension Reform Act 2013 (34/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27175	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27204	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Now we come to a point, the earlier increase in the age of women's pensions, when you wrote it into the law. That's what Michael Spindelegger called for. Hanne's already supported this. Reinhold Mitterlehner wants to think about it. Christoph Leitl also called for the early increase in the retirement age for women. Whenever one of the mentioned thinks too loud about it, surely some association of protection comes and falls over him, and the person in question then goes back. Then, emancipation and justice are being dealt with quickly when it comes to defending a privilege that comes from past times. Argument will then: As long as the women don't deserve as much as the men do, that won't come into question! This argument exchanges cause and effect. In fact, you have caused this scheme to cause women to have a lower life income. Because women go into retirement earlier than men, they lack valuable years at the end of the career, years in which the salary is typically higher than at the beginning of the career. Because women retire earlier than men, they will “old ” on the labour market too. You'll find a job more difficult. You will get less or no more training in businesses, because this investment is no longer paying off for a farm if the lady is not in operation for so long. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] - Yeah! If she's not there for that long, if she's only there for two years, then it won't be, you know. If she'd be there for seven years, it'd pay off. These years at the end of the career, in which you often still take career steps, still experience promotions, these years you steal the women, and afterwards you wonder if the women have a lower pension than the men because you sent them to pension earlier by law. This has also been the best for Members Schittenhelm in the “Wiener Zeitung”. The social spokesperson Wöginger has also complained that women are missing the best years, and that is why we should start to raise the retirement age earlier, not only in 2024, but already in 2018. The fact that words and deeds are split up by the ÖVP has just been demonstrated by the members of the Economic and Social Committee. I am afraid that will be the case here too, but we are still asking for your support. It was also applied: Why then did you not apply for a Constitutional Act? – Not at all necessary! The Constitution only states that the retirement age may be different for men and women. It's not inside that it must be the way it is now. So we're allowed to file the application simply by law. We hope for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27254	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27275	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to be disappointed by the honourable Member, Mr Loacker, that the power of the lobbys falls over him again, I would like to tell him that you cannot count on us on this question. The question of the age of women's pensions is in the Constitution I am sure that the Commission will be able to take the necessary steps to It is not only inside that the retirement age may be different, but it is very probably also the timetable inside, how to deal with it. That is, if we want to change it, we need a constitutional change. However, I assume that we will not find a majority in the House for this, not because we misunderstand emancipation, but because of the simple reason that differences in employment and pension differences between men and women do not result in 99 percent of women being able to retire earlier, but from the fact that women have significantly longer breaks in employment, and that women still have to accept, partly badly paid, less skilled part-time jobs, that women can still work in their own village, because in rural areas, transport links are often poor and men have the car, and often only find worse jobs there. For this reason, the increase in the age of women's pensions as the step towards emancipation will not be to talk to SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27311	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27333	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Loacker, the same age for women and men, yes, there are good reasons for this. I hear in conversations again and again, not every woman is happy that she may retire earlier. Some complain of the disadvantages. Whenever it comes to training in the company, it says: You'll be in retirement soon, it won't pay off! Another important reason lies in the wallet. Just the last years are the best paid. If you can't do this, you lose disproportionately. And it is the fact that women's pensions are far below those of men. We want to close this income gap. Yes, you're right, that's our idea, the idea of the ÖVP. We want to close the income gap in the pension. How is that supposed to happen? An earlier adjustment of the retirement age of women to that of men is currently not in question. There is no parliamentary majority. It is not in the Government Agreement, and we adhere to the Government Agreement. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But you are Members too!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] So what do we want to do? There are many, many measures that help women who have already agreed, and we now want to take these agreed steps very quickly. For me, the most important thing is that no single woman is forced into the pension. We have agreed on an information campaign in the government programme. This is now to be started quickly. The suspension bonus will be decided by the summer. What does that mean? For longer work beyond the regular pension age, there should be about 10 percent more bonus, more pension for each single year. This helps women, especially women, to lock up with the men's pensions. The partial pension, a very important measure, is to be decided before the summer. In other words, you take part in the pension, you are still working – useful to everyone. A great offer. The question remains: Will there be the necessary jobs? – The labour market package for older workers is already in place. Furthermore, a better accounting of child rearing times is agreed. We want to achieve this quickly. Therefore: There's enough to do. We are now investing our forces in implementing the already agreed measures – all important for improving the situation of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27369	Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27391	Mr President. High house! Mrs Aubauer, briefly in your direction: Parliament can also decide on its own and not only does it have to abolish and fulfil the government agreement. That means that you could also have your own opinion on this and perhaps enforce it. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS-LIF.]] Equality is not a privilege, I think, and it is not a privilege for women that their retirement age is lower. It's not a privilege, it's about equality. We have therefore raised this in constitutional order, because there is a very concrete roadmap, and this roadmap is also linked to a report on the reduction of the disadvantages of women that need to be laid down. And we have discussed the last report in the 2011 Committee. This is a report by the IHS, very comprehensive, and it has again been decided no recommendation on raising the age of women's pensions. Why? – We are absolutely in favour, I am also in favour of women being able to work longer if they want. They can also do that, because there is a lot to be done by employers, and there are things in progress that are necessary. But we have not achieved the essential objectives of equality. This is about the double burden on care and care. That's the whole salary debate, the paycheck. And there are very, very many, too many women who go into retirement from unemployment or other precarious situations. That is, as long as we have not prevented this, we do not need to discuss the increase. We can't turn it around! We need to build the house first and then put the roof on it, we can't start with the roof. In this respect, I do not see any need, but rather the great need to work on further equality measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27434	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 34/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:51:56]] 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act – B-VG, BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended (7/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27475	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Please, Mr Stefan.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27503	Mr President. High house! This request concerns the question of the right of Members, i.e. the right of interaction. Article 52 of the Federal Constitutional Act provides that there is also the possibility to ask questions as Members of Parliament to distributed companies. This is, of course, an important point because we see that there is a tendency in this direction. Distributed companies are those in which the federal government is at least 50 percent involved or in which it has a dominant position. In practice, we have been able to make this request to the ministers, but the companies themselves do not have an obligation to provide information, and then regularly return the answer from the individual ministers, that the companies which do not want to provide information. And that's it. That is why we put the request here and put it into discussion that companies are required to provide the ministers with the appropriate information, in so far as it remains within the framework of the law of the Members of Parliament, i.e. with all the boundaries that exist anyway – data protection, business secrecy and so on. So we want to have a commitment from these companies to provide information to the ministers that it does not remain the same as in the past in the future that we simply get back empty messages, with the hint that the companies give no information, and that was it. To close this gap, of course, requires a constitutional majority, and I therefore hope for the other Members. It is about the very essential right of our Members that we can get information. It is a question of being able to monitor the administration, and this includes these distributed establishments, as I explained earlier. That is why I also hope for your agreement and ask you to do so, because I assume that all Members are interested in getting this information.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27536	Next, Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27557	Mr Stefan has just mentioned that, in countless cases, by means of these exclusions in the past, we have actually taken the right to interact, and I believe that it is the right step in the right direction to oppose this request, because it really cannot be said that the members of the Federal Government simply do not give information. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Us above all!]] I think it is already remarkable that those companies that belong, for example, to a city, a country or the federal government, on one hand, move billions of euros and on the other hand dominate the fact that, because they are governed by law, they are actually deprived of political control. In my view, ladies and gentlemen, this can only be a system mistake, because it cannot be in the sense of the inventor that, although the Court of Auditors can examine these establishments, we are completely cut off from this flow of information. I think that together we should talk seriously about how we can correct this – or, in other words,: Let us see how we can regain our control rights!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27594	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27615	Thank God we are of the opinion, at least rhetorically, that we must be able to exercise the control rights that we have constitutionally. And it is really a pleasure for me to take up this proposal, because it is, in two respects, difficult for us parliamentarians to exercise control in this growing area, I call it almost extraterritorial, that is, outside Parliament, which is nevertheless the property of the Republic. I would like to give you countless examples of responses to this question: We can't, we don't want to, we can't. However, there are also, and this should be stressed positively, ministers who, despite this formal possibility of refusing information, are very likely to provide information. That's what it is. You have to emphasize that too. But that it is a right of grace that it is a pleasure that one depends on the respective minister, the respective minister, whether we receive an answer or not, that must belong to history. That is why I am very much in favour of these changes, which are urgently necessary, because it is not only about monitoring, but also about the control of the Court of Auditors, but also about the control of ex post. We should again take the view in the Court of Auditors that the Court of Auditors will at least extend its control possibilities to this 25 percent share of the Republic's undertakings. This would be good for many companies and also for politics as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27649	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 7/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We have already completed half of the agenda items. [[20:58:06]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (52/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27691	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The word will first be given to the applicant. Please, Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft Rules of Procedure, this own-initiative proposal concerns the upgrading of the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions. This is a request that we have already prepared and discussed in the last GP, which had already been submitted. I'll bring him in here again. It is a basis for discussion, and I invite all political groups to actively cooperate that we can deal more concretely and better with the concerns of citizens who are brought directly into this House as citizens' initiatives or petitions. In this proposal, for example, we call for a citizens' initiative to be dealt with in a public committee in this House in support of 5,000 citizens, for the first signatorys to this issue to be able to speak and answer themselves in Parliament, and for the Committee to contribute to it. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In addition, a point is also very important: Resolutions by municipal councils based on joint decisions on the ground have so far been sent to Parliament, and the President has then distributed them to the clubs. But they were actually sent, there was no parliamentary treatment of these concerns. We want petitions and resolutions from municipal councils to be discussed here in the future. It makes sense if, for example, mayors of SPÖ and ÖVP are involved with proposals from the Greens or joint all-party initiatives are launched at local level, although these are discussed and discussed here in the House. What is particularly important is also the possibility of online support. I remind you: We have introduced these about two years ago, so to speak, completely free of any specific amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We have implemented this only with Parliament's Directorate. For example, at the time of the citizens' initiative on data storage, 100,000 citizens supported this citizens' initiative. And it is only right and cheap if such online supported instruments are treated in a better way than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27764	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27785	Madam President. Mr Pirklhuber! I'm on your side. For five years we have been moving a lot when I think about how the Committee looked five years ago and how the Committee is now working. It is of course important that we strengthen the citizens' initiatives, that we show the population that their concerns are really taken seriously here. Online support is something quite, very important. This is the medium used today. That we come into contact with the receivers is quite, very important to us, because written the whole thing often looks very different than spoken. I think we'll find a way. Something where I am a little skeptical is the matter with the councils that we have already discussed during the last period, where there have been Members who simply rewritten and introduced such resolutions. Then we actually talked about community problems. But we're going to sit down on this. I think that is a sensible proposal. We will discuss this and develop it for the next five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27821	Next speaker: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27843	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Disinterest, political insanity and a bad picture of politicians – this is the opinion we find in large parts of the population. I believe that just good transparency and direct democracy are a contribution to improving the situation. That is why it is very much my heart to strengthen democracy. If citizens participate in the process of politics, it simply creates more interest in politics. For Parliament, this means that we must constantly deal with improvements. I myself came to the High House through the Lower Austrian preferred voice model. This was also a contribution by the population towards active democracy. We've got 5 today. Agenda item on the right to vote on the election of the Members of the European Parliament, which is another step forward. That is why I think it is important to continue to value the Committee on Petitions, because the petitions and citizens' initiatives are a good instrument of direct democracy. It is easy access that is easy. The thresholds are not as high as popular desires. Therefore, this classic instrument should also be further expanded. There is, of course, our consent to the online introduction of citizens' initiatives. That was already part of the request of the government parties to the democratic package. I also think that the deadline for getting opinions within two months is good. On other points, I believe, there is still a need for discussion and amendment, because the Committee on Petitions has narrow structures and scarce resources. We cannot simply question the Committee, because the principle of quality should apply here. I don't want to talk too long. We will continue to discuss the Rules of Procedure in the light of the further development of the political process, thus strengthening the confidence of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27892	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27913	Madam President. High house! I can understand very well the intention of this request, but I also sat in this committee during the last legislative period. Without disputing this committee, because in the framework of the legislative measures we had, he has certainly worked very well, we should really do something to improve and change. However, we cannot accept this request from the FPÖ. First, however, the positive: That with the resolutions, I believe, is quite positive. That would be in our sense. The eight-week response period is also something you can use very well. The fact that the first supporter also has the right to speak in committee and present his desire is something that needs to be seen positively. However, the Internet platform or the online petition and online citizen initiative, led by Parliament's management, is something that we are fighting for – for various reasons – because we believe that initiatives that can set up normative processes must and should, in this case, have a little more access to this person who has this intention. Secondly, If you say an online petition, which is practically under a state control, it always reminds me of the dog to which you give the instruction: Watch out for the sausage! What will he do? – If he likes it, he will eat it, he doesn’t like it, he won’t. That is, if you can do this under some circumstances with manipulation, then you may be able to understand what I mean. And when we say a direct-democracy policy instrument, we ask: What does democracy mean? – We all believe we live in democracy. But that's not the case. We live at best – listen! –, at best according to democratic principles within the framework of a republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] I'd rather define that. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you want a People's Democracy?]] And this is a huge difference, where data protection would then be the second episode or the second supplement, because regarding data protection is to be said: Let's not pretend that he exists, as if there were no manipulation, as if there were no influence by him, big question marks. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: For this we are politicians responsible!]] Data protection as it is now handled is grammatically a living salmon number for me. In this context, we want to change something positive. In the interests of sustainable improvement, we should still – and it was good that you meant that this was just a basis for discussion – continue to talk about it and not necessarily hang on to the people an Internet petition or an Internet-citizen's initiative and convey it to them that it would give them more democratic say. A number of conditions must be clarified to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27969	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e27991	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Maybe I'm too naïve, but I don't have as much pessimism as my predecessor. I should like to begin by expressing my joy at the beginning that I, as the chairman of such an important committee, will have the responsibility of developing the Committee in practice. I can say right away that I assume that we are all aware that this committee has the capacity and the opportunity to involve citizens in whatever form it is, and that we are discussing it right now. I looked at the final report of the Parliamentary Directorate and found that we received 218 petitions and 67 citizens' initiatives. We completed 187 petitions, 58 by assigning them to the specialist committees. 58 citizens' initiatives were carried out, of which 22 were carried out by the specialist committees. What else did I think? – One point is – and that is quite clear –: We need to reduce obstacles and barriers so that we are actually closer to the citizens. Another point is – and this is very important –: Each individual citizens' initiative and petition is an expression of commitment and passion for democracy. I think we should take this into account in our discussion. It is also known that we are NEOS for the broad involvement of citizens in the democratic process. We therefore welcome any initiative that ensures this involvement. It may be a naïve view now, but I really wish not only a living democracy, but I also wish myself a living Parliament, so to speak, a pulsating Parliament, if one wants to do so, perhaps at that later hour. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Bravo!]] In this sense, I support Mr Pirklhuber's concern and am already looking forward to cooperation. As far as online support is concerned, I am very, very optimistic that we can move a lot. I look forward to work and wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28027	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 52/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[21:10:38]] 12. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Alev Korun, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship (National Citizenship Law 1985 – StbG), BGBl. No. 311/1985 idF BGBl. I No. 188/2013, amended (15/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28067	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mrs Mag. Korun, come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28094	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! I have been wondering for a long time why dual citizenship should be a privilege for Arnold Schwarzenegger or Anna Netrebko, why it should not be possible for children who come to the world in Austria to grow up here, go to school here and have never lived anywhere else, are not constantly referred to as so-called foreigners. Officially, even if they were born here, they have always lived here and never anywhere else. The Federal Republic of Germany has now solved this differently, 14 years ago. ==References== In January 2000, the new Citizenship Act entered into force, which states: Whoever comes to the world in Germany and has parents who have settled there legally and have been living there for many years legally, is in the birth of Germans. Now Germany is going one step further. The new so-called Great Coalition has agreed that these children at the age of 23 no longer have to choose between both citizenships. So these children will be like Arnold Schwarzeneggers and Anna Netrebkos and many more, for example, who have come to the world in binational marriages, are double-citizens and can remain double-citizens and double-citizens. That also means our request. And to detach an argument that most likely will come back right away: No, the Greens do not demand that children of tourists, transitors or people who stay only temporarily in Austria be double-citizens and, by birth, Austrian citizens. What tells us is that if at least one parent – why at least one parent? – so that single parents and single parents are not punished – for at least five years have been legally established in Austria, speak here for a long time, that child can be double-citizens in terms of birth. I hope here, as in the Committee on the Interior, that there will be a productive and constructive debate. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28136	Mr Pendl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28158	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This very interesting and very important issue is currently being discussed not only at national level, but also in many other European countries. I would just like to take account of history and say that, in the mid-70s, the European States reached an agreement on the Council of Europe that, for certain reasons, the European States did not want to have double citizenship. Now you can say that the times have changed, you have different conditions today. It must be clear, however, that all issues related to this need to be discussed. And we see what is being discussed in Germany, where there is a rule, where from birth everyone has equal double citizenship, but between 18 and 23. The year of life must decide which citizenship he gives back. So this is also an unsatisfying solution. I believe that the socially relevant question is – that is moving across the European Union or, if you wish, through Europe – the question: Do we want to have a culture that admits itself to the country in which it is located, quite simply with all the If and But, or do we want cultures that go beyond this area, with all possible areas of problem? – I am the last person who does not wish to discuss this question offensively, but it must be clear that the question can also arise: What, then, does one do with cases that confess to a state that is diametrically opposed to our fundamental rights and our constitution? I don't even want to talk about tough fights. I am very open to this question, but I believe that there will be a longer discussion and we should consider whether we should discuss this question beyond the committee either in a survey or, even wider, with many experts, with NGOs, with everything that belongs to it, because I think that this is an important, necessary discussion according to the time. But I also believe that there are many open questions that we must also answer in terms of social policy. This will certainly be an interesting discussion. I am curious about how this debate will also be held between the political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28197	Mr Rädler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28218	Madam President. High house! Mrs Mag. Korun! You have tabled this proposal, which will certainly lead to discussions; we have already heard it from Mr Pendl. If we know that about 10,000 children are affected, then this is really a fundamental question, which cannot be seen every day, but which must be dealt with in principle in a discussion. I therefore welcome Mr Pendl's proposal to hold a broad discussion, involving the NGOs et cetera, in order to give the Committee on the Interior the opportunity to perhaps come up with a solution. I really see this very different: From the fate of the children you have to talk about it on the one hand, on the other hand, of course, the Austrian citizenship law is challenged in its basic form, namely the recognition of citizenship according to the principle of descent. There is some relief for children up to six years old that there is early recognition of citizenship. But this cannot solve the fundamental problem, that is clear to me. So: I am in favour of an open and broad discussion which Mr Pendl has referred to. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will then come up with a solution which is acceptable to all, including children affected by it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28252	Mr Hafenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28273	Madam President. High house! Mrs Mag. Korun! There has already been a request here in the House for this subject. Our criticisms have also been clarified, but I would like to repeat them once again. The so-called Jus solo, i.e. the regulation to obtain citizenship of the country in which one is born, is internationally controversial, as we have heard before. It is therefore controversial because there are some legal issues: I am thinking of the many criminally relevant problems with the collision materials internationally, I am thinking about the field of military service and also about social security. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: “Collision materials ”?- Oh, my God!]] This and many other facts are also the reason why there is no international trend in this direction and why one still proceeds according to the principle of descent, according to the origin of the parents. But I would like to explain now, on the basis of the Turkish people's group in this country, about which you will probably be taught, why a jus solo is absolutely unthinkable for us. The academic rate is 4 per cent among migrants of Turkish origin, while 70 per cent do not have higher education than the compulsory school. That is to say, the second generation, despite training in Austria, has not yet succeeded in integrating itself accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Why? Consider why!]] It even came so far that there is a worse readerate here than was the case with the first generation. This also confirms the numbers of the AMS and, subsequently, the unemployment rate. The source for this is, by the way, the Austrian Integration Fund. If we are already on the figures, I would like to point out that false figures are also mentioned in the request. Mrs Korun, it is not about 10,000 births annually, but about 13,000 children who are born in Austria as foreigners. That's almost 17 percent of all births in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the number of births, Turkish women with 2,41 children are ranked in one place. On average, it is only 1.27 children in Austrian women – this in addition. Source for: Statistics Austria. On the basis of these figures, of course, I feel the suspicion that Mr Korun is doing nothing but client policy here. [[Abg. Dr. Mlinar: Please? Sorry!]] In reality, this means that it will not be possible to legitimise the 30 years of poverty migration. Young Turks are to be given the opportunity to do military service in Austria and not in Turkey – is a bit easier here too – and it is nevertheless intended to maintain the commitment to Turkey. [[Call the Greens.]] By the way, Turkey itself is doing so. Foreign citizens of Turkish origin already have the opportunity to obtain a special identity card called Kimlik. This can be resolved and is de facto, except for the right to vote, completely equivalent to a Turkish citizen. There were, ladies and gentlemen, last year in the ORF “Report” – I would point out that this is not a right hetz magazine, as we all know – a report on the Vienna protests on the Gezi-Park demonstrations. In this report you could – remember him! – not only hear that many Turks simply say: We live in Austria, but we are in the head and in the heart of Turks. [[Calls to the Greens.]] One can conclude from why we Liberals will certainly not agree to this Green Client's proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28348	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28370	Madam President. High house! I'll take it short: Mrs Korun, we have discussed this request several times here, so last summer just before the election. For me, not much has changed. I noticed one point: At the last request, I think, it was unlimited, and now you have explained that the parents or parents should have been in Austria for five years. So on this point, the request has already changed a little, because before, it was so that, in principle, an asylum-seekers only after Ös- I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. I can win a lot of what Otto Pendlvor has said here. I think a survey would be the right way on this point. You also have to look at how this is handled in other countries. Mr Rädler has also mentioned this, it is true that more and more countries want to have a clarification of what citizenship the person would like to have. The possession of two citizenships has been abolished in Austria – for good reason. I'm sure you'll have to look at this very carefully. So we are more critical, with the Stronach team of course very clear for immigration, but for the migration of skilled workers that the economy needs. I think we must look in this direction and perhaps think of a solution. But in a survey like you, dear Otto, you can talk to us about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28412	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 15/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[21:23:46]] 13. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Law on Court Fees (23/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28451	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. The applicant shall be given the floor. Please, Mr Mag. Steinhauser.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28476	Ladies and gentlemen! Before the election campaign, there was a party that committed itself to the fight against fees, a large campaign led under the motto “stopping of charges”. That was the Austrian People's Party. I was therefore all the more surprised than on Monday after the election, so exactly one day after we voted, this campaign was suddenly ended and the Minister of Justice, then Karl, announced that the court fees were rising again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] However, this is particularly remarkable in court fees, since the court fees bring more to the State than the courts cost him. The revenue from court fees accounts for 120 percent of the court's costs. And that's unfair in the double sense. On the one hand, it is unfair because a fee is always an equivalent to a performance, and if the citizens pay more than in return for the state, it is inappropriate. On the other hand, court fees are proven to be an obstacle to judicial proceedings and result in certain groups of persons becoming more serious in their right. Now we have to say that there is an automatic system in court fees, and in so far as the accusation is that this increase has come on Monday, perhaps even not so serious because it was a legal automation. It is only surprising because the ÖVP has previously constantly polemized because of the Vienna fees, where that is similar. But the question is, is whether automation is the right answer; if fees are taken more than the courts cost, then you have to question automation. Therefore, this request goes in a different direction, namely that the increase in fees should not be automatic, but that, by means of a regulation of the National Council's main committee, court fees should be increased or not increased. And then it should be discussed politically, according to judicial considerations or after budgetary considerations, whether the fees rise or not. What we do not want is an inconspicuous departure of citizens, where justice becomes cashcow and business at the expense of those seeking legal protection. I'm trying to discuss this seriously. I think it is in the sense of access to justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28537	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28558	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this consideration is, in principle, comprehensible. We actually have a very, very high charge. And where it is prohibitive, where people have to consider whether they can complain whether they can afford it, the whole thing will of course be problematic. I believe that we will therefore have a very solution-oriented discussion, stating that we have already done a reduction in fees in the last legislative period. So the worst thing we had under Mrs. Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner is more or less abolished. I believe that we will also have to discuss whether, in the case of procedural aid currently limited to fixed limits, a step-by-step should not be introduced in order to make the complaint more dependent on the respective income and not on a fixed limit. I look forward to the discussion with joy and believe that we will also come to a reasonable solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28592	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28613	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe it is undisputed that we all want to ensure equal access to the legal system for all citizens. I would just like to mention three points which may also be relevant to the discussion, debate and treatment in the Committee on Justice. Mr Jarolim has already mentioned it, there is also the procedural aid, which includes, among other things, the judicial fees, including other government fees, which are regulated by the federal level. There are also, of course, open questions in the application, for example, the removal of the adjustment of inflation required in the explanatory statement, which, in turn, is contrary to the actual amendment proposal in this proposal, but also to the provision of determination. With a rather skeptical view in this direction, I am concerned that this process path through the main committee is, of course, an end to the role of profiling. However, regardless of that, I agree with the request, it makes sense to deal with the amount of fees. This is also found in the government programme, where an evaluation has been announced with the overarching objective of improved access to law and increased legal protection. Since we are only at the beginning of the legislative period, it is understandable that there are no results here yet. However, I am confident that, together with our independent Minister of Justice Wolfgang Brandstetter, there will be a sensible and appropriate solution here, as he brings extensive experience to this department.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28658	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28680	Madam President. High house! Yeah, we'll see it the same way, of course. It's actually all said. That's all right. The court fees have actually increased blatantly in recent years. Mr Himmelbauer, it is true, but access to procedural assistance is not so easy, that is one of the most complicated things there is to fill out the form. In many cases – these are really not rich, but rather poor – this is not allowed to do so, and there are the fees to be paid. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: That's right!]] It is a really very complicated access, and that is not actually going through. That is how we see this proposal in a really positive way. And it is beautiful because, as we have heard now, all political groups see this as positive. However, I am already looking forward to whether this will then be the case in the Committee and will listen to it again and be so down, as has now been said from the speaker's desk. Most of the time it's like saying, Yes, a great approach, a great thing, we do, we do!, but then, in the end, nothing changes in the Committee. There are then again some excuses. From our point of view, this should be changed. There can be nothing against the fact that the Parliament's main committee, that is, Parliament itself, is concerned about this, so that there is no automatic system, that the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Justice cannot simply do this increase or the increase provided by law, which can now be left out of dispute. On the other hand, there is nothing to say in itself. I too look forward to the debate in the Committee on Justice and I am curious if we still know what we have said from the speaker's point of view, namely that this proposal is absolutely positive. Well, that wouldn't be a problem at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28721	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 23/A to the Committee on Justice. [[21:32:01]] 14. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues regarding a federal law establishing a federal law for the social protection of artists and repealing the existing K-SVFG (25/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28761	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. The applicant shall be given the floor. Please, Mr Dr. Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28785	Madam President. In Austria, we have a professional group whose social and financial situation is devastating – the professional group of artists. We know this since 2008, then a comprehensive investigation was published. More than half of the artists earn less than €400 a month, if you only calculate what they do from art. Less than € 700, including the side work outside the art, deserves at least one third of the artists. That is, I think, more than terrifying. There's still a lot of numbers that make you depressive, but I'll save you, you can read it. We published this report in 2008 after the Ministry wanted to keep it under lock. It is likely that the Minister has been a little naughty about these figures. It has also recognised the urgent need for action and has ensured that action will be taken very soon. That was in 2008. Since then, five and a half years have passed, and nothing has happened in this sector. There are now similar sentences in the government programme, namely that the government is doing something in this direction. Prices are to be donated more – but prices are not an adequate means, because they are rather arbitrarily awarded and rather also to artists who already have merits and do not necessarily need the prices. I think it will be time to take back once again our 2006 request for an initiative that proposes a solution. It is the first reading here today, so we do not need to vote with Yes or No. We can look at this in peace, we can also make alternative proposals, I am right in any proposal that is an effective measure. The only thing I'm not right about is if there's nothing in this sector at all. That would be quite unpleasant and embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28822	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28844	Madam President. The Greens' request is a response to the difficult social situation of artists. Of course, I am also aware of this difficult situation, but I think we need a whole mix of measures to improve the situation of artists in a sustainable way. In my opinion, it is equally important that artists support appropriate framework conditions so that they can live from their artistic activity as well. A very important measure is certainly a further increase in the grant from the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. Fortunately, there has already been regular adjustments in recent years, and this path will surely continue our Minister for Culture. In addition to the grant to this artist's social insurance fund, I am also talking about a copyright contract law that guarantees artists a better negotiating position vis-à-vis consumers. Just a few brief comments on the Greens' request, because there are still a few small details: First question: Is it about 1,500 € income from artistic or non-art activities? Another open question is: How are the demarcations made? But I think we can discuss this in committee. Yes, it must of course be about artists and all producers of knowledge being able to live from their work, even in an environment that is rapidly changing – keyword: Digitalization. The characteristics of artistic professions are now also to be found in many other professional groups, so that political solutions are needed for all those who work in the production of knowledge, and not only those in the narrow field of art, i.e. journalists, scientists, creative professions. Yes, it is about creating good conditions for all these working conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28902	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28923	Madam President. Dear High House! It is undisputed that we are all proud of our country of culture Austria and that we generate a high value added from our country's art and cultural activity, a very significant share of gross domestic product. Nevertheless, most of those who achieve this cannot really live on it. That is to say, the social security of cultural creators is consistent, so that we can achieve something here, although the request, Mr Zinggl, is well meant and the need is also recognised, but your request suggests to the artist something that we are so likely to fail to implement. This is a minimum guarantee of €1500. This is an amount that you might then have an outcome, but the whole thing is constitutional, if you know that minimum pensioners, who have paid for years, for decades, do not receive this amount or that our minimum guarantee, which we have provided for other groups of persons, does not reach this level. Another point is the demarcation you make. As far as the person concerned is concerned, this is a very broad word, namely, in terms of who is the person concerned. Benefits could be used: all those who have to do with art and cultural activities in the wider sense, without any demarcation or evidence of how we currently have them in the social security field. The current regulation has, I admit, also its weaknesses, but it is true that the social security of the industrial economy has taken over it with its own information structure to advise the artists and show them the possibilities they have. It is the social security contributions for the pension, for social security, but it is not a minimum guarantee, of course I am aware of that. Further development is, I believe, undisputed – even there we have to have talks. The Greens' request is an incitement, but it is not likely to be implemented. As a basis for discussion, we can make sure that we continue to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28972	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e28993	Madam President. High house! Yes, we have already heard a lot about this request, of course it is very interesting. The question, of course, arises here: Who evaluates art? Who is even entitled to evaluate art? Can you even evaluate art? Where is the freedom of art? Because the very one, art in the ideal sense, primarily serves the artist himself, and the others think he takes the motivation from the recognition, from what he himself can experience in shine, and from the sum of his achievements which he himself creates and with which he can also finance his life. – We know that this is not always so easy. The second question to be asked is: What is the art of society worth? Where does society benefit? This goes, of course, up to the macenatism, up to the collectors. Everyone benefits. Finally, it remains the question, we are daily confronted with art, conscious or unconscious, but: What is art? And: What's not art? – Of course, I cannot take this from the request, he says nothing about it, except in so far as reference is made to the Commission, the Executive Board and the Board. That's too little for me. That's where you need to think and talk. 1 500 € appear to me, if you also consider this to be mathematical, as not a small sum. I am thinking of a lot of young people and young people who are introduced to me in the district office, whether you have a job for them somewhere. So that's a contradiction somewhere where my social conscience stirs and stirs up. Another point is the definition; Mrs Fekter has already mentioned this. But this is what I'm talking about: There is a selective group that is active in the field of modern, contemporary art. And now we come back to the questions: Who can even rate contemporary art, what is a good contemporary art, what is a bad contemporary art? It reads: “on the basis of artistic ability and effort”. - That's a little too little for me. And then there's something inside that's very interesting: "The Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture has by regulation this maximum amount according to Abs. 1 to increase with effect from the following calendar year, as far as possible for a balanced balance sheet of the Fund.’ The reason for the request is exciting. This study – I really took it to my heart – is really exciting, revealing, of course also says something about it – as in the opera romance of “La Bohème” – how poor they are in the poor artist room. It is also known that Vienna benefits, as well as Salzburg, Lower Austria and Burgenland, where most artists move. I can only say one thing in this evaluation: I'm thinking about this study. But thoughtful, once again, I also agree with the other statement that Austria is at the forefront of the international art promotion comparison. And second, once again: When I think about who all of our unemployed and unemployed young people would like to have a job with €1500, I have to say that would be a good thing for these young people. Finally, just a quote from Schiller: “The artist is the son of his time, but bad for him, if he is at the same time her chatter or even her companion.” “Art is a daughter of freedom.” But art can never be a daughter of state subsidies alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29030	Mr Dr Franz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29051	High house! President-in-Office of the Council. My previous speaker closed with a quote, I start with a quote. We all know the Secession building. It's big on it: “The time their art. Art’s freedom’. This is an essential quote from a great period of Austria, from the Fin de Siècle, 19. ==References== What does that mean? – It follows: Art thrives only in freedom. Freedom is the basic condition of art. If I go here now and commit the state to alumne the artists, then what happens? – Then I only have more state artists, artists employed by the state, who will receive their subsidies, support and deliver according to what the state wants. All of this goes in the direction of a totalitarian art system, you can't assume that. My opinion is: You can do artists, you should support artists – that's not a question at all – especially young artists who are going new to art, but they have to bring with them several conditions: They have to be able to do something – art is also etymologically related to “can”. They have to do a training in some way – a sculpture, an academy et cetera; there are enough art professions that you can learn. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Kammblasen!]] Otherwise, everyone can come and say that I am an artist and I get 1 500 € now. I don't think that's socially fair. [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Kammblasen! Didgeridoo!]] The second point is: Yesterday was the award of the Austrian Art Prize, and Karl-Markus Gauß has said in his Laudatio, in his solemn speech, that state art, which is allied by the state, is a disgrace for the artists. Karl-Markus Gauß is certainly totally suspicious of being somehow a neoliberal person or seeing the art differently from all of us. He said that. An artist, a well-known Austrian artist who makes such a statement, I think you can listen to him. Therefore, we need to find other ways to help the artists. I think it would be a way, for example, of the non-sensory credit that can be achieved through the state. It is certainly also a good way to have regular art prizes that are attributed by an independent jury, artists who do beautiful, good things that represent something. I think that we should argue and debate in this direction – and not now, from the outset, set a fixed target, which the state needs to grasp. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29107	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29128	Madam President. High house! Values brave ever-yet-watchers in front of the televisions! I would like to thank Mr Zinggl for starting the discussion. I also think she's very important. I see the social situation of artists less romantic than the picture of the “Bohème”, I have to say, and I also know this 2008 report and therefore think that it is good to talk about it seriously. But I also have some problems with the proposal, for several reasons. One reason is that I think it is also little social to take advantage of a particular professional group because of its precarious social situation, which is undoubtedly existing, and in the end – and that is what you have to say – too. This also raises questions about other professional groups, where you have to ask yourself: Well, how social is it, for example, if a worker does not earn an average of €11,000 a year? – I think this is a very important question. A second question, which is still important to me, concerns artists as well as people in the creative economy, but also many other professional groups, including journalists today, for example: What are we generally doing with people who have periods of employment in self-employed jobs, then again in self-employed employment and then also in periods of unemployment? I believe that we can take this request well to discuss it in principle, for example with regard to the aggregation of social security systems or, for example, with regard to the disadvantages within the SVA. But that was already mentioned today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29161	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 25/A to the Committee on Culture. [[21:48:15]] 15. Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1992 Agricultural Law (50/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29201	We arrive at the 15th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant shall be given the floor. Please, Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29230	Madam President. High house! Yes, Mr Rädler, this is a first reading on a very exciting subject, namely the basic orientation of Austrian food production, especially agriculture. [[Abg. Rädler: But this is a first reading, gal?]] This own-initiative proposal includes two types of impact, on the one hand, to make organic farming an agricultural model and to promote it in particular, and to indicate a direction of agricultural policy in the Agricultural Act. Of course, this does not mean that every farmer would automatically be forced to operate organically, but that, in the face of environmental disasters, food scandals and climate change, there would be a clear need for a goal, an orientation where agriculture can develop. And this must be sustainable, Mr Rädler, which must be environmentally friendly, which must be climate-friendly and also quality-oriented. All this is organic farming. ==References====External links== ==References== From Africa to the mountains of the Alps, this is the destination. This requires a lot of research and development – because I am looking at my colleagues' daughters – so we also need to focus here, which we will also discuss in the next few months in the context of agricultural policy objectives. And the second point is the freedom of genetic engineering of food production in Austria, especially the cultivation in Austria, to plant a hundred percent on non-genotechnic seeds. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that, for ten years now, we have been fighting at European level and together in the alliance of non-genotechnic regions to ensure that there is a right of self-determination. President Barroso also promised to the European Parliament in his re-election. There were proposals and there was already a very wide-ranging draft which was discussed within the framework of the Danish Presidency between Parliament and the Council. But there was no agreement. If we want to make pressure, ladies and gentlemen, then we finally have to make it clear here that in Austria – there have always been all-party resolutions – we want to have the freedom of genetic engineering for reasons of ecology, because only in this way can we protect our agriculture from contamination, only in this way we can maintain quality production. And we should also write that in our agricultural law. I am already looking forward to the discussions at the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, as I hope that this request will be on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29265	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29286	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing today a request from the Greens for a change to the Agricultural Act, which was almost made verbatim not for the first time, but five years ago, i.e. at the beginning of the previous legislative period. In the last five years, however, there has been a great change in content, as I mean. I refer, for example, to the government programme negotiated last year. The aim is to: Strengthening biogenic agriculture. This is a social-democratic manuscript. I should also like to point out that in 2013 – compared to 2012 – the organic farming areas increased significantly: in the field of cultivation, in the field of special crops, vineyards and also fruit cultivation. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's falling!]] I should also like to mention that, of course, it is important that where “bio” stands on it is actually “bio” inside – and that it is also necessary to carry out appropriate controls. We have also set up a correspondingly higher investment support for organic farmers in the government programme, and a higher investment support for classes 3 and 4 in the mining area. Next point: Absence of genetically modified seed. Austria is already free of genetic engineering throughout the cultivation, including seed and research. I think that we will also have interesting discussions and debates at the next Committee meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. For my terms, a very important and essential step in the right direction has already been laid down in the government programme. I think we're moving in the right direction. Of course, we also have the goal of significantly expanding the organic farming plants in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29323	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29344	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria's farmers have always been interested in this and in their daily work are also geared towards preserving biodiversity. Farmers thus create and ensure biodiversity, and they provide all these services to society in all regions of the country. The current Government Convention explicitly addresses the points included in this proposal, such as strengthening organic farming, abandoning GMOs in cultivation and thus a protein strategy for Austria. The requirements of a comprehensive eco-social and sustainable agriculture relate to a positive and sustainable development of organic farming. In Austria, both organic and conventional farms are to be able to optimise the production of income on the market. A separate promotion of organic farming beyond the previous measures is not necessary from our point of view. Austria has the highest share of organic farmers in the EU. In 2012, there were 21 843 organic farming farms in Austria, and the share of organic land in agricultural land in 2012 was around 537 000 hectares and 20 percent respectively. In the European comparison, Austria is clearly at the forefront of the bio-area content. The EU average for surface management according to biological criteria is around 6 per cent. Austria has been fighting the use of genetically engineered seed for years. Resistance to genetic engineering in European agriculture has already resulted in the creation of the European network of GMO-free regions on the initiative of Upper Austria in November 2003. Finally, the European Commission and the European Parliament have taken up the call for self-determination. With the enforcement of the right of self-determination, each region should be able to decide itself on the use of genetic engineering. This proposal is now being blocked by a number of EU Member States for different reasons. An end to this blockade is not foreseeable. That is why Member States' right to self-determination in GMO cultivation remains delayed. However, with regard to the negotiations on the free trade agreement between the EU and the USA, this right of self-determination needs to be implemented quickly in order to create legal certainty for farmers here. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] With Elisabeth Köstinger, we have a committed fighter in the European Parliament for these objectives.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29381	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29402	Madam President. Yes, Wolfgang Pirklhuber, we looked at the request of course. We will deal with him in committee. One point you point out is that we can fully agree to point 6: abandon the use of genetically modified seed in Austrian agriculture by applying the precautionary principle. I think there is an all-party consensus on this. That won't be the problem. Where we – and I say this quite openly, without prescribing to the Committee and the debate – are going to be a bit difficult, is the agricultural model for the whole of Austrian agriculture. We also welcome the fact that organic farming, including the development of support in organic farming, is made stronger because it is ecological and because it can be a goal; but when it comes to overcoming it as a whole over Austrian agriculture, our group will be somewhat more serious. We see very clearly that we need conventional agriculture as much as the ecological one. We do not want to have a fight for repression, but rather a common solution that covers all areas of agriculture. Nevertheless, it makes sense for us to discuss these things. Only, as has been said, will it be a little difficult for our group to place the model as such in a form of law. Support – yes. As a legal requirement – no. EU seed and this genetic engineering matter – from us a clear yes to this, and we confess to that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29435	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29457	Thank you, Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate listeners! We agree to this proposal. [[Abg. Auer: There is no consent today!]] You may even be able to talk about an extension to include hormone freedom. I think that's very important. [[Abg. Auer: There is no consent today! It's a first reading!]] It is all right, Mr President, that is a first reading, we know that. But we are not so modest at all, but simply want to support these efforts, which, I believe, are expressed in this proposal, namely that we are more closely approaching our most valuable partners, consumers, who are more honest. And this GMO freedom, I believe, should not only be referred to the fields, but perhaps also to feed. You should address this clearly. And that is why our emphasis on this, Mr Auer, is, I believe, very important to the farmer's government, how important the milk quota is for the future, because we have free milk free of genetic engineering here in Austria, and it belongs to extremely protected. This is a valuable asset and also an expression of a fair partnership with consumers. The bio-promoting sector. We are also moving towards the promotion of circulation. The circular economy, the regional circular economy is the most important. We want to force this cycle plant–animal–fertilizer. And a step beyond – and now it becomes very important –: In the WTO Free Trade Agreement, which is now under discussion, we are in favour of exempting basic foods from milk, meat, cereals and maize in accordance with the Canadian pattern. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29510	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 50/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. [[22:00:13]] 16. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Christiane Brunner, colleagues in a federal law with which the trade regulation 1994, BGBl. No. 194/1994, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 202/2013, the Waste Management Act 2002, BGBl. I No. 102/2002, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 193/2013, the Emissions Protection Act for boilers, BGBl. I No. 127/2013, Mineral Raw Materials Act, BGBl. I No. 38/1999, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. 129/2013, and the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000, BGBl. No. 697/1993, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 95/2013, amended (First energy efficiency novels 2013) (10/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29549	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mrs Mag. Brunner, get the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29576	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, This request concerns energy efficiency in the field of plant law. Energy efficiency should therefore become an approval criterion for processes for larger installations, not only concerning the energy used, but also concerning energy generated from such plants, the waste heat. This request is one of our many demands when it comes to the negotiations on an energy efficiency law. Last year negotiations failed, but Austria still has to implement the EU directive on energy efficiency by June of this year, and I think it would be good for the Federal Government and, in particular, the Minister of Energy Mitterlehner to negotiate quickly with us. It's quite clear: We need this law, we need it to reduce our energy needs. Increasing energy demand, as we find it now, is not a natural law. We know that if we want to create the necessary energy transition, Let us reduce energy demand – this is also true if we now set ambitious targets and propose appropriate measures. It is also an essential contribution to reducing the long-term cost of energy for households. If the Minister of Energy follows my call for quick negotiations with Parliament – at least it is a two-thirds matter – and does not, as last time, negotiate with certain lobbys from industry and the economy, but in fact also with environmental NGOs, with the parliamentary parties, then, I think, it will be possible to submit by June a corresponding law, an ambitious law that actually saves energy needs. By the way, I think this is also a good example of the fact that the environment and energy simply belong together, therefore: Austria urgently needs an independent strong and committed Ministry of the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29619	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29640	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have also had this request in 2008, as he called Energy Efficiency Novelle 2008. But I think it's good that we talk about it now. It has already been pointed out that a number of things have been done: This House has adopted a unanimous resolution calling for a single federal energy efficiency law. This has also been worked very intensively and hard, but on the last few metres, before the National Council election, this law unfortunately failed, and we are now called to make a new start. We need this start, too, because by the summer of this year the relevant directives of the European Union are to be implemented, and just as before the election there are now the different groups that bring different interests into this debate. On the one hand, we are moving towards a comprehensive energy efficiency law, and on the other hand we are discussing: We're already doing so much, we're kind of good at it, then we don't need such a strict energy efficiency law! I say: We have laid a clean basis for a good discussion in the Coalition Convention, which has now been conducted. We want a good energy efficiency law that helps businesses, but also consumers, especially the socially weak households. That is what we are going to do, and I am also looking forward to the debate with the Minister for Energy and, in future, to the negotiations, because I too believe that we should decide by a large majority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29670	Mr Mag. Groiß is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29692	Madam President. High house! Climate protection, nature conservation is an important concern for us, and we are therefore looking forward to the negotiations in the Environment Committee. I would just like to point out one thing: that this draft will be re-examined to all energy plants. That is to say, even for small plants, papers are to be produced again, which cause enormous administrative burden, which often slow down procedures accordingly. There you have to work with an eye measure so that on the one hand the energy efficiency fits, but on the other hand not only paper is produced and that then disappears in the drawer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Brunner.]] – That is why we do not want to make it subject to approval for small businesses and small plants, as we will not be able to go along, I believe. Otherwise, I look forward to a reasonable discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29730	The next speaker was Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29751	Madam President. High house! This proposal therefore deals with emissions and CO2 and how to reduce them. I believe that this is an issue that should be addressed to all of us and discussed in a cross-group way. I can make a few remarks from a technical point of view: We are a highly technologicalized country and thus also have the task of driving research in this direction. In these things, one should not be forgotten either, that is the preventive fire protection. Nature has more powers than it is entrusted to her, and it has proved to us sometimes. For this reason: If the boiler regulation is also addressed, I must say that there is a tank that flows over the oil and the like. I mentioned natural disasters earlier: Last year, we had numerous oil accidents – so called – that cost taxpayers and the federal government a lot of money. A sensible measure to avoid this would be to fix these tanks. This does not cost much and saves the taxpayer a huge fortune. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore: A child of concern is photovoltaic. Photovoltaics are a recognized form of electricity production, but for fire brigade this is extremely problematic, because the electricity is always produced, and you can't turn it off. In my opinion, the legislator is called upon to install a protective switch between the photovoltaic systems and a distributor, otherwise we endanger the forces. However, all measures leading to the reduction of CO2 and emissions should be implemented within a certain financially sound framework. I therefore believe that the proposal will continue to be discussed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29791	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 10/A to the Committee on the Environment. [[22:08:48]] 17. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Law on Freedom of Information (BVG) (6/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29835	We reach the 17th. Agenda item. The applicant, Mrs Mag. Mein-Risinger, get the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29859	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is actually the second time in this legislative period that we are discussing an application for an information freedom law and the abolition of official secrecy here – the last one was similar. Why did I pass on to this first reading anyway? – I think it’s just important to keep the pressure high and maintain it. It is now almost a year since the Transparency Act.at initiative was founded, it is equally a year ago that then State Secretary Sebastian Kurz has sprang up very full-fledged on this issue and said he very much supports it. Before the summer there was a draft on the table, which unfortunately was rehearsed. It is important to me that we confess here from NEOS that it is a very important issue for us; on the one hand, the abolition of official secrecy. I would have understood – this is the request to be discussed now, a constitutional law to abolish official secrecy and to create an information freedom law – that there is actually relative consensus. I would just like to ask: When can we expect a draft? In addition, of course, it is still necessary to establish a genuine freedom of information law. I think there is still a great need for discussion, and I would like to stress once again that it is absolutely necessary for NEOS to jump over the federal shadows and think about a uniform freedom of information law at the federal level, which also includes the countries, because otherwise this freedom of access to justice would be a very fragmented one throughout Austria, and that is what we want to prevent. We want to keep the pressure there. I'm asking that we get a law on this soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29900	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29921	Madam President. High house! To my previous speaker – it is now the second time I give an answer –: The Information Freedom Act is part of the Government Convention. It will be sent in review in February and then find the parliamentary way. It will be divided into two parts. On the one hand, we will introduce an information obligation for the administrative authorities, so that it will have to be automatically placed on the Internet, and on the other hand an information right of interested parties, so that they can also ask if the information for them appears too little. That is, these two parts will exist. It is then likely that there will be a need for a greater discussion on which parts should be excluded, such as certain public bodies. It will not necessarily be possible to question all military matters. I also think it is wrong if judicial proceedings are covered by this freedom of information law. If divorce procedures of celebrities, adoption procedures or child care procedures and care rights had to be published, I would consider that to be completely missing. Therefore: It will begin with the review in February, then go through the normal parliamentary process, and I assume that we can complete it in the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29959	Member of the Commission. Karl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e29981	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Meinl-Reisinger has already mentioned the need for pressure to finally implement the Information Freedom Act. I can assure you that, as Mr Wittmann has already mentioned, this project is also part of the government programme. There, under the title ‘Free information instead of official secrecy’, it is intended to provide more transparent and open access to public action. Two measures are envisaged to achieve this objective. Mr Wittmann has already referred to these two parts of the project. Special topicality of this project is also achieved by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 28 December. ==References== This was about refusing the Tyrolean Basic Transport Commission to provide an NGO with information on the divestments of agricultural and forestry-based land in recent years. The European Court of Human Rights has decided that the complete refusal of access to information was disproportionate. It deals with an intervention in freedom of expression, in concrete terms in the right to receive information. Such an intervention is not necessary in a democratic society and therefore inadmissible. That is to say, this decision is once again a proof that the official secret in its present form is simply obsolete. You will also find these findings in the government program – and also the right solutions. I can also refer to Mr Wittmann again: It will be implemented in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30011	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30032	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. High house! It is clear to all political groups that the current system of silence in the current form is not to be maintained. Although this official secret, a relic from earlier times, was a little evaded by the mandatory information law, it contains so extensive exceptions that an information de facto must never be provided. There is hardly any legal protection for the individual. If an authority does not respond, a negative decision may be sought, but without the possibility of a dispute. As a result, there has to be a conversion, the FPÖ therefore supports, in principle, efforts regarding an information freedom BVG. Not only from the point of view of anti-corruption, but also in the sense of a higher acceptance of state action, it is necessary that citizens learn what the state thinks and knows about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, there will still have to be areas where there are restrictions, especially when I think of the courts, ongoing proceedings, the activities of the prosecutors, police investigations or the like. It won't be able to be... that you read early on in the newspaper about a house search that has not even taken place. Secrets of the State in certain areas must be guaranteed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, they are to be considered against the fundamental rights of each individual. We do not believe that there is any right to information in areas where two equal parties are facing each other. Details of divorce procedures must not become a case for freedom of information. It must also not be possible to block, extend or even torpede administrative procedures by means of an extended information obligation. In principle, however, it should be our aim that the provision of information should become the rule and not the other way round, but always from the point of view: Protection of individuals versus information to third parties. Income information at the financial office, tax rulings, unit value information on the value of property or similar matters are matters of each individual and should remain within the meaning of data protection. In order to create the space between information requirements, information law, higher interests and data protection, it will be necessary not to separate these areas from each other, but to discuss them in total and to innovation them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30087	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30108	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann. You know, we discussed this earlier in November; You already said it. Today's first reading, which includes a rather similar request to the one I discussed with all the others in November, has, above all, the importance of asking what it looks like. I am pleased that it will actually be serious in February and that a proposal by the Federal Government is obviously under review. After that, we will negotiate – it is a two-thirds matter – and we are also willing to conduct these negotiations. I also suggest – and this has already proved true in other laws – that the transparency law.at initiative should be taken on board in the negotiations. I recall the changes in the criminal law of corruption that we have also negotiated in Parliament. It proved to be very good and useful that we have taught the experts in these negotiations, because this could immediately feed in knowledge. It was then valuable for us to come up with meaningful solutions. This does not have to be limited to this one initiative, I think it makes sense, as some people also take in to bring together a high-quality law. It's just one thing that's important to me: I want a single solution for Austria as a whole. I know this is not easy, but if we have ten different information freedom laws, it will be extremely difficult for citizens to handle this. I therefore really believe that we should have the courage to do so. Let's also get the countries on board – it doesn't matter, then they should cooperate with us – in order to create a single solution for Austria as a whole! I don't want to turn the countries off – I want them on board in the discussions – but I just don't want ten different laws, which are then not accessible to citizens who are not manageable and which result in the whole thing being dead again. I'm glad we're beginning to negotiate. Let's see we're bringing something together! This would be a real quantum leap in the Austrian administration – civil orientation, anti-corruption – if transparency were to take place instead of mystery. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30147	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 6/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[22:20:02]] 18. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Daniela Musiol, colleagues in a federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the Volksbehrengesetz 1973 and the Volksbefragengesetz 1989 (24/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30187	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. The applicant shall receive the floor. Please, Mrs Mag. Musiol.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30211	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As many of you know, I am not here for the first time on the subject of direct democracy. Mr Cap, we had plenty of opportunity to discuss this issue in working groups, in committees, but also in very concrete negotiations. Some may wonder why we have just submitted this request, because there is, so to speak, a proposal or a draft law that was developed on the basis of an agreement, then between FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens. And then, a few weeks later, there was a negotiated result between ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens. I made the first request, so to speak, to the elderly, to point out once again what special process happened at the time, namely that, on the basis of a score of three opposition parties to the legal and legislative service, there has been a legislative proposal here – something that should be of course that is also possible in parliamentaryism, something which is unfortunately not taken for granted. I would, as it were, like to appreciate this draft law on the legal and legislative services. I think it doesn't matter what starting position we continue to discuss. A lot has already been discussed. Now there is again a government programme in which there is to be an Enquete Commission where further discussion is to be carried out. I've already publicly announced several times, and I'm doing this again now: I think it's all said, now it's up to you to decide. And you just have to decide in principle: If we want direct democracy to be put on more binding legs, do we want citizens to be able to decide on individual questions here or not to get involved here or not? Or do they want to continue to be reduced to making a crusade every five years on the electoral paper? This is the decision to make. We are also willing to negotiate again, but only if, at the end of the day, a sensible law actually comes out at some point. Much has already been said, I think we can make decisions relatively quickly and relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30259	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30281	I am only going back to the speaker's desk more out of pure attachment at this time on this subject, and because of my previous speaker, because, of course, we have used a lot of time to talk about this matter, to negotiate it. You only have an exception that there has, of course, been a comprehensive review. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Forget it! Of course!]] I don't know why you left out here now to mention this. This is very, very important, because very important institutions of our Republic have expressed themselves extremely critical and skeptical of the draft, where we have tried so much that it has been reintroduced here too. [[Abg. May. Musiol: But not only critical!]] Now, of course, we have to deal with this in the Committee on Inquiry and, of course, we have to look at the fact that all these critics are coming to the fore, this has to be considered very seriously. [[Abg. May. Musiol: But I hope the advocates too will speak!]] And then we'll see what results we're coming to, and then we can meet again at the speaker's desk and discuss this again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30342	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30363	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can join where Mr Cap left off. I think we all confess to this negotiated result. It is also documented in the government programme that, based on the request 2177/A, which was negotiated at the time, the relevant opinions were put forward. The confession is that this modern democracy is being developed further. And I think we will be able to conclude the discussion successfully and well.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30387	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30427	Mr Jarolim has no idea how – at least occasionally, we say so. Thank you, Madam President. High house! I welcome the re-submission of this request. As has been said, he goes back to a compromise, which was actually such a golden bridge that we wanted to build the government parties, because the minimum result of all the discussions we have held was that one says that a successful popular desire should at least be able to result in a popular survey – not what we wanted of the liberals, and, as far as I know, not what the Greens wanted. We want to ensure that the people are actually genuinely involved in the legislation as such, i.e. a real legislative initiative on the one hand and on the other hand the possibility of a veto referendum. So these are other ways, there's a lot more going on. – But not even this compromise Miss was then picked up. There was then a separate request, which went into consideration, but already for the conduct of a popular survey with such dramatic obstacles that it was thought that it was more important to prevent the whole. I think Mr Cap was very pleased that there were so many critical comments, at least that was my impression. I have also felt that today – I now interpret it, I admit – that you have had your joy with it. I am very skeptical that we are putting this into practice here – or if, then, in such a weakened form, there will be nothing to be seen from a real, honest involvement of the population in the lawmaking in that state. I like to be taught a better person. We will be there in the discussion. At any rate, the subject seems to have been rather asleep in, and I am already very excited whether in fact there is a swing in here again and really a fundamental way in the direction that direct democracy has a meaning in this state. As I said, we like to be there, the scepticism remains.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30472	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 24/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[22:27:09]] 19. Point First reading: Request by Dr Rainer Hable, colleagues on a federal law amending the party law (35/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30512	We arrive at the 19th. Agenda item. The applicant shall be given the floor. Please, Mr. Dr. Hable.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30536	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens in front of the screens! The Independent Party Transparency Senate is regulated in § 11 of the Party Law. This Senate is set up to impose fines and fines under the Party Act: Fines for parties, fines for natural persons. Neos now wants to honor this transparency Senate and ensure that the name is published in accordance with all the decisions of this Senate. So far, only the publication of fines has been planned, but not the publication of fines. That is why we have tabled this own-initiative proposal to publish all the decisions of the Independent Transparency Senate, i.e. both on fines and on fines. However, for data protection reasons, the personal data of the perpetrators should be anonymized, but not that of the party concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, Whoever is in favour of transparency cannot conclude this request. We hope that you will go there and ensure a little more transparency in Austrian politics. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30566	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30590	Mr Pendl has recently asked why the transparency Senate is called the transparency Senate if the assessments are not transparent. Of course, you can see that so pointed, ladies and gentlemen, I just think we should look at what is the current state of law. And one can certainly also think about a publication, whether in the form with or without the names of those concerned is there. Of course, it already has something for itself, and we also want this transparency. That is why we look forward to the discussion with joy. [[Abg. Brosz: adjourned by Jarolim!]] Perhaps Mr Pendl will also come to the committee and then present his view of things. We'll all learn from it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30635	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30659	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! From the point of view of the ÖVP, the 2012 Party Act represents a quantum leap in the efforts to increase cleanliness and transparency in politics. As a new Member of Parliament, I am very glad that transparency in party financing and in our personal election campaigns will be lived through this law. It is very important for me to be able to accountable at any time for my electorate and the citizens of my constituency. The current Neos request proposes that the Independent Party Transparency Senate should also be able to publish decisions on fines in the future. Dr. Hable has already explained this. In this respect, we are quite ready to talk from the ÖVP. However, with this request you also want to anonymize the data of the punished. This demand, I think, is still to be looked at very carefully, because everything that restricts transparency compared to the current legal situation does not consider it to be objective. [[Abg. Brosz: And that of the ÖVP!]] In principle, I would like to point out the following: I think we should wait for this year, because it is only in this autumn that the first reports of accountability are sent to the Court of Auditors under the new party law. In the light of these reports and of the experience of the parties and the Court of Auditors, it is without doubt possible to look at a revision of the law. For this we are happy to be ready from ÖVP-side. However, there must not be any easing. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of this discussion on Neo's request, I propose that we consider the following matters and discuss them in the Committee: We could, according to German example, include provisions on the democratic internal structure of the parties in the law. For example, for participation in political will-building, as is currently the case with the Neos, it is almost necessary to charge admission fees, without the right of party members to be granted to those concerned, although I consider it to be creative in order to obtain money, but I personally reject it. We could also think of including a so-called oligarch clause in the party law in order to prevent entrepreneurs from buying a part of the political landscape, through large donations, which form a substantial part of the party's conduct. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: We brought in today!]] - Yes, good! – This impression could be present for both the Neos and the Stronach team. Even today, a donation of 1.3 million € to the Stronach team via the media became known again. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call:Are’s jealous?]] I think that might have been a piece of comfort for colleagues from the Stronach team, because they have now been abandoned by their party leader. In conclusion, the question for me is whether, in the event of any revision of the law, the party officials could not be relieved of excessive red tape on the basis of excessive red tape. You probably know from your own party base that the officials in the municipalities and the districts, who are already dealing with the matter with a lot of enthusiasm, heart blood and also own resources, often have only a few euros at their disposal and are frustrated by all kinds of bureaucratic conditions as part of their volunteer work. Of course, I would like to point out that relief in this area must not, of course, lead to abuse. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30725	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30746	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! You even experience surprises at 22.35 a.m. So I take it that the ÖVP only agrees with the request if it gets sharper, and it only agrees to it if the data of those concerned are published, because there should be no secret. [[Call to the ÖVP: Well superior!]] – Interesting developments within the ÖVP; so far I have always experienced this differently. But let's see if that's serious. Mr Jarolim is also not on the road badly, because, if you can remember, there was an almost identical request, which the Greens have brought in. And Mr Jarolim, if he says anything to you, Member of the SPÖ Group, immediately asked the Committee to postpone this request, because there was apparently no urgent interest in changing something. I sometimes have the impression that in the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP one should apply for the function of the deputizing speaker, because otherwise there is no such much to do in the political groups if it goes on. But the scurry about it is yes, we have had decisions of the transparency Senate directly in the election campaign. And now it is not a question of money punishment or not, but substantial decisions have been made there, for example, whether – I know you should not discuss this with SPÖ – the financing of poster advertising in the election campaign corresponds to the Party law or not. Anyone who has the decision to publish this, namely the person concerned, is free. That's the situation now. When the person concerned gets the decision, he decides for himself what he publishes, which part he publishes and what he does not want to publish. And to maintain this situation is completely absurd, because the basic decisions are in dealing with public funds. So from the point of view – no, we have not decided at all, because you know exactly from the debate that the issue of publication was clear from our point of view and that the Senate then came to have a legal basis for it. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Haven't we decided?]] In any case, that was not aware in the discussion. So we're already taking this mistake with us that you could have formulated cleaner. But if you tell me seriously now that we had ever said in the debate that we want this to remain secret, then you were at another event than I was. So if it is called transparency law, then it is also published, and it should be clear above all what binding effect the decisions of the Senate bring. So less delay, decide more, that might be a good variant for “rerule. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30793	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 35/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[22:36:50]] 20. Point First reading: Request by Dr Rainer Hable, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (39/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30833	We're entering the 20th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Dr. Hable, has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30860	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens in front of the screens – at least if you have stayed in front of the screens until this late hour! We must re-examine the question of political responsibility. Is it enough if politicians represent facts different before the election than after the election that they will then be elected again at the next election? Is it enough if politicians knowingly represent bills, financial plans wrong when politicians knowingly publish false information that they can only be selected at the next election? No, no, no, We are convinced that NEOS is convinced that this is not enough. A liability which meets private sector leaders must also apply in a similar way to politicians. [[Abg. Rädler: Hazelsteiner!]] This is a high-level office with a high level of responsibility, and therefore the responsibility must also be high. It would also be a good signal to the people outside the country, because managing directors, directors, one-person companies, all those responsible in the private economy do not understand that the commanders are in the criminal with one foot and politicians get away from it regularly. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Also for the opposition!]] That is why we have tabled this initiative proposal. Only one third of MEPs, and not the majority, should be required in the future to sue potentially guilty infringements of law by ministers before the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And the opposition!]] This is a first step, but a necessary step towards higher standards of political responsibility, and it is also a precaution against tarrying and deceiving – and we urgently need these after the experiences of the election last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30929	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30951	Madam President. In the Federal Constitution, it is currently clearly such that an accusation against members of the Federal Government is to be filed that a decision of the National Council is necessary. There is currently no reason to change this. This is an old-fashioned system that has kept itself well up until now. I now see no reason to change that in any way. But we will discuss this in the Committee, where you will certainly still explain what is causing you to make this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30978	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e30999	Madam President. Mr Hable, you can stand up to your political wish, but the instrument you have just tried to use is certainly the wrong one. They spoke of political responsibility as you would like to amend Article 142 of the Federal Constitution. However, Article 142 does not deal with the political responsibility of ministers, but with the legal responsibility of ministers. It is a question of whether a minister has violated a law or not, and the National Council can or cannot file an indictment. There you have to distinguish very much between what our internal rights are, where there are minority rights, and the rights that Parliament has outside. Internally, we grant the opposition very many minority rights, where you have the opportunity to make applications so that the procedure can be initiated here, but externally, the National Council must always speak with one voice, namely, as it is in a democracy, with the voice of the majority, where everyone has to make a decision together. And only when a majority makes a decision that a minister is being charged will this ministerial charge come to pass. Everything else would be a complete system failure in the context of the separation of power that we have in this Republic, because then Parliament could actually disable the Federal Government. That is not what we want, Mr President. We want a separation of powers, as provided for by the founding father of our constitution, to ensure that the power between the Federal Government, Parliament and the Justice is apportioned by mutual control. However, it should not be a power to get a center here more power over the others. So I'd say, If you are looking for a different section for your political concern, you will be more secure!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31039	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31060	Madam President. High house! I cannot entirely agree with Mr Gerstl's opinion that there is a problem here on the issue of the division of powers, because it is clear here in Parliament that the Constitutional Court is only able to deal with the relevant charge, and the Constitutional Court has finally to take its decision on this matter. We are not judges in this respect. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I can clearly signal to our side that this very short request by NEOS, which is very exciting and interesting in content, will get our support through. Of course, the detailed discussion is still to be held. But one thing is already said, ladies and gentlemen: The fact that government groups tend not to allow a majority of their own members of the government here in Parliament is likely to be accepted. It is therefore only quite interesting, as provided for in this proposal, to make a minority right out of it and to allow this indictment to be made by the Constitutional Court with a third quorum. In this sense, we look forward to an exciting, hopefully also objective discussion in the relevant committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31093	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31115	Madam President. We, too, find the request interesting and highly debateable, because in the field of control – and this is also an instrument of control – the question of how useful it is that only a majority whose composition corresponds to the composition of that body which is to be controlled can bring about the decision that is being controlled, and not also the minority. We have this discussion not only in this case, but, as you all know, also in the matter of the establishment of an investigation committee, where, in the last legislative period, there has already been an agreement between all club chairmen that the establishment of an investigation committee should be a minority right. They all know the story that the confessions sealed with signature have not been redeemed; Mr Cap, for example, Mr Kopf is not here right now. This, of course, is the question of how control should be possible at all if the minority cannot set up the appropriate instruments here. I fully agree with you, Mr Darmann, of course, and we also experience this regularly, that our democracy is not, unfortunately, in such a way that the government groups understand themselves as an independent body, which is really working here, but, unfortunately, it is so that you do what is being done in the governments, and therefore, vice versa, do not want to control what is being done in your governments. It would certainly be helpful to parliamentary democracy if you were to make a certain change of attitude here too and if we could have more instruments of control, which could also be used by minorities.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31150	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 39/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[22:46:42]] 21. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Georg Willi, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law (16/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31192	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mr Willi, has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31220	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! You can breathe through, we're at the last item on the agenda, and I appreciate that you're still sitting here and listening to me. I'll do it very briefly. It is about road safety, and as a transport speaker of the Greens, it is a great concern to me. We have a driving licence reservation system, there are twelve offences inside, where we are trying, with this pre-remark system, to bring drivers, as it were, gently to make them more safe in road traffic and to behave in a way that makes traffic safer. It is interesting that two things are not in there, namely speeding up and calling with mobile phone without a hands-free system. The accident statistics show that most accidents occur due to too fast driving, namely, 30 percent. There was a very famous case in Carinthia, which showed that fast driving can even be fatal. That is why we need to do something. And the concern of this request is that we take this too fast driving, where you then threaten others, into this pre-marking system and, secondly, calling with mobile phone at the wheel without a freephone system. I have a very famous advocate for this issue, with the help of which we will certainly do so. I quote our Minister for Transport, who said: “One of the most dangerous distractions in the car is the mobile phone.” The subject is therefore prepared. I would ask you to vote in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31257	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31278	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that increasing road safety must be our common objective, and it is important to make every effort to ensure that we take appropriate measures here too. This request is about amending the driving licence law. The applicant has already pointed out that speeding and telephoneling should be included in the pre-mark system during driving without the use of a non-voting device. Ladies and gentlemen! This system was set up with the aim of reducing the number of road accidents, injuries and deaths, together with other transport policy measures. The basic strategy of the crime catalogue is to involve crime situations with particularly high risk elements, such as the violation of the 0.5 promille limits. However, I do not believe that this particular risk potential has been given in the case of high speed crossings, for example due to a speed limit on motorways, for reasons of noise protection. The exception to such formal offences without risk potential is a break-through of the current system. That is why we should discuss this issue again. It is similar in a violation of the so-called mobile phone ban. Infringement is currently being committed with an organ mandate. In my opinion, there is also no factual justification that we should include this mobile phone ban, namely the ban on calling during the ride, in the pre-mark system. We will have a few discussions in committee. I'm looking forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31324	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31345	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am delighted with my first speech here about everyone who is listening to me now. You may all know the saying: For the first impression there is no second chance. That is why I am now very brief in my remarks. My two previous speakers have already said a lot in substance. There's a certain skepticism here. The priority system is basically a good system. We also need to be careful that we don't pack too much, because that also means more bureaucracy. However, it is safe to be dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. We must accept all that is used to increase road safety. However, I would like to draw attention to one more point. In the case of speed crossings at the risk of other road users, it should be noted that we already have a sharper variant in good German, namely the withdrawal of the driver's licence for at least six months. I am looking forward to working together in the Transport Committee and to having as many discussions as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31385	Next speaker: Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31410	Madam President. High house! Mr Willi, you have raised three points in your request. I am convinced that these individual measures do not improve road safety. This amplification is again a pick-up of the drivers. The aim must be to improve the pre-remark system and thus road safety for the drivers, but not to continue to scrape the drivers. It is, of course, useful to discuss and evaluate this matter in principle in the Committee. To conclude: The driver must not be the milk cow of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31446	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 16/A to the Transport Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:53:20]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31485	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 5, so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: 'No objection shall be raised in response to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 2 and 3. TO point 1: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 81/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (20 of Supplements) Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA. Deputies Mag. Dr Strolz, colleagues and others are tabling the amendment Supplement 1/2. Mr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 1/4. Mr Franz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/5 EA). Mr Hable, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/6 EA). The vote will take place at The amendment Annex 1/2 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 20 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority of votes in second reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 1/4 and at third reading. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/3 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA is hereby rejected. TO point 2: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 98/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues in a federal law that amends the salary law 1956, the contract staff law 1948, the Richter and Public Prosecutor's Service Act and the Landeslehrer Service Law (17 of the Supplements) TO point 3: Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the State Contracting Teachers Act 1966 and the Land and Forestry State Contracting Teachers Act (18 of the Supplements) The rapporteur shall present the print error correction Supplement II/1. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lausch, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/1 EA). Mr Pendl, Mr Singer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 2/2, which is set out in the key points. The President shall be appointed by the President in accordance with paragraph 53. 4 GOG the reproduction and distribution. Mr Hagen, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/3 EA). Mr Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the amendment to Supplement 3/1. Votes: To TO point 2: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 17 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority vote in the second and third reading, taking into account the correction of the print error and the amendment request for Supplement 2/2. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/1 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/3 EA, is hereby rejected. To TO point 3: The amendment Annex 3/1 is rejected. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, will be adopted at second reading by changing majority and third reading by a majority vote. TO point 4: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 112/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, colleagues concerning a federal law on the authentic interpretation of § 13a para. 2 Tobacco Law 1995, BGBl. No. 431/1995, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 120/2008 (19 of the supplements) Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 4/1. The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 19 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority vote in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment amendment. To-do point 5: Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 82/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, Dr Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Election of Members of the European Parliament (European Election Order – EuWO) (21 of Supplements) The rapporteur shall present the print error correction Supplement V/1. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, put the amendment to Supplement 5/1. The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 21 of the Supplements, is adopted by a majority of votes in the second and third readings, taking into account the correction of the print error. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 5 (Annex I-V/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. [[23:00:24]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-01-29-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00009_d8e31683	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications were tabled by 117/A(E) to 220/A. Question 502/J to 588/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23 o'clock, which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
