ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4179	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 25th. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of 21 and 22. Meeting of 29. ==References====External links== Meeting of 30 March 1990 In April 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported Ottenschlager, Ing. Schellenbacher and Mag. Vavrik. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4210	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Education and Women Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek will be the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Public Service Dr. Ostermayer as well as the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin is represented by the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Sebastian Kurz. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length, interrupting the live transmission from 5.30 a.m. to 23 p.m. and sending time shifts from 23 p.m. [[09:06:54]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4264	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Health reform: Poetry or Truth – What Does It Really Bring?” First of all, Mr. Dr. Marcus Franz has spoken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you the floor and draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4294	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Dear citizens and taxpayers! Good morning! We are talking about your money in the next few days in the context of the budget debate, especially about how best to redistribute it. This is in itself a rather unpleasant issue, as we have already heard in the last few days and weeks, so we have thought we are talking about something immaterial, namely a very high, if not even the highest, good, namely health and health care, in order to create a pleasant or at least thoughtful entry into the budget debate. At the beginning I may invite you to a thought experiment: Imagine VW designing a new car, and involved in the creation of this mobile phone are only the board of directors and the regional sellers, no designer, no designer, no engineer, no test driver! I ask you: How would this car drive? – Probably bad and right or perhaps not at all, it would certainly not be a suitable and no selling companion. Unfortunately, in the field of health policy and health management, it is in Austria God's way and would be that non-specialists – in this case politicians, health politicians; as well as the executives and sellers at VW – act as planners and plan the health policy or the health care of Austrians. It is actually sad and really disappointing that no doctor, no nurse, no physiotherapist, no pharmacist, no professionals and no patients are involved when a health reform is being carried out in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, why is that so? – Quite clearly: The health system is a gameball of politics and should remain forever from the point of view of those involved – and it is quite clear that the specialists must not have the saying, otherwise the whole thing would look quite different. I personally and the Stronach team, we would have wanted a group of professionals, because the problems are urgent. We know about the exploding costs in the health system, we know the problems, we know the supply needs in rural areas. I would have liked you to get through one day and finally, as was already the case with the pension reform, a specialist group would have been able to get together and say: Please design a successful health reform for Austria! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] What has happened so far? – A questionable construction has been designed. This vehicle is now called the Federal Goal Control Treaty – a highly tradable word, it is at least the word “target” in it; while I dare to doubt that in reality this is really going to be so good. In principle, this is an agreement between the federal government and countries. Granted, this vehicle, this car, which has been designed there, will drive a little bit – from my point of view, however, at most with a Fred firestone drive, says: We all have to run fast. Everyone remembers Fred Feuerstein and his car he drove with Barney. – This health reform seems similar to me. [[Call the SPÖ:Wilma!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are two key elements in the government's health reform package: One is “cost reduction path”, and the other is the word ‘target control’. ‘cost reduction’ sounds quite good in times of sparring pressure and the scarcity, it is possible to join; however: I believe that this cost reduction is extremely questionable, because expenditure in the health system is to be linked to economic growth and measured by a maximum of 3.6 percent per year. – No one knows economic growth, and one cannot make such an essential area as health dependent on whether and how the economy grows. This has failed from my point of view. It would have been more honest to design a budget annually according to the principle of Zero-Base budgeting, so one says what one is expected to spend on health next year. It didn't happen. The best thing is, of course, in a uniform system, in a uniform health system that is centrally designed and controlled, just as we have suggested by the Stronach team several times, with the combination of health insurance funds. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What is happening now is again an eye-catching, because the funding does not come from a single source again. The second key word is ‘target control’. This is a hearty formulation; sounds energetic, but de facto is toothless because it remains vague and remains left to countries and social insurance, but especially because there are no definitive sanctions if one fails to comply with the target taxation contract. All of this is very, very bad, because we know that the health reform has made a lot of efforts: in the various bodies, in the ministry, in the GÖG, in the former ÖBIG, in the Vienna MA 24, also in the parties – colleague Rasinger and colleague Oberhauser are quite competent doctors who are long in Parliament, long in politics and know what it is all about. Unfortunately, the final product has only remained a Potemkinian village, the use is frustrated. Let me sum up briefly: It remains dual financing – we all know that's a fool. It remains the federalist wild growth – even there we know: not well. It remains the flickering carpet in the supply – not good. It remains the self-governments as undemocratic states in the state. It remains the overall concept as a pure seal, and in truth almost nothing changes. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Oberhauser and Mr Pendl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, my central question is: Why do we in Austria of the third millennium adhere to a genuinely ancient cash-in-debted and contribution-dependent cash system? As we know, the Austrian health insurance system dates back to the 19th century. It was designed mainly by Reich Chancellor Bismarck in the German Empire; from there it came to Austria. That was ideal at the time, it was social – well-noticed in a feudal system in which there were hardly any provision – but today, due to the high unemployment, because of the demographics, is simply countercared by the situation, just as we are now living. The system will simply not be eligible for funding with the contributions and the way it is set up. And from today's point of view, it is not really social, because it is a compulsory system – one is pushed into it by its professional group membership – and it is undemocratic because Parliament definitely has no influence on the health insurance companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ, which is always considered to be modern, is holding fast to feudal structures from the previous century. From my point of view, the SPÖ is in reality retro and wants a benevolent mentality from the 19th century. ==References====External links== The fact is: We have a paternalistic system in which Parliament is hardly involved. – You can't repeat that often enough. This is really a worrying situation in times when democracy policy is so important and democracy itself is one of the highest values. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why I would like to ask you again: Why do you do that? Why keep these systems? The answer is easy, it is transparent: It's about the grains, it's about client policy, it's about lobby policy, it's about post chess – but please, it's never about the patient. This can be derived from: One wants to continue to maintain a weak and low-competence health ministry, because only then can one maintain this situation. Now, of course, you can say: Okay, this is Austria, so is the real constitution. Let's keep everything the way it is! Let us continue with a little bit of a doctor – knowing that the demographic disaster is there in ten years at the latest! One thing, ladies and gentlemen, is already here: The system, as it is now, is dangerous for patients, for some patients even life-threatening. Why this is so, I'll explain to you in a moment. Because of poor care policies, sick people die earlier than they should. An example: They all know the diagnosis of heart failure, heart failure. This is one of the most frequent discharges from the Austrian hospitals, with approximately 250 000 Austrian citizens suffering from it. In the previous year, 2013, there was a study by the main association, which came out – 37,000 patients were included, statistically significant – that only half of the patients are provided – not because the doctors are so bad, but because the supply structures are so diffuse and not uniform, because the patients are not listed because there are no corresponding programs. The main association knows this, he announced a campaign in 2013, but it was sent and fell asleep. Today, when you go to the homepage of the main association and enter “heart failure” there, you will find: Error – Page not found. Ladies and gentlemen, in other words, in other words, thousands of years of life are lost because patients die untreated. In the case of heart failure – once again: 250 000 citizens are affected – it is about raising life expectancy by one and a half to two years with optimal treatment. We lose thousands of patient years due to poor supply structures. And I think that's a dramatic finding. In general, the chronicler supply in Austria is bad in the international comparison. Why? – It is politically not sexy to provide chronic illness. We prefer to build a new hospital on the green meadow – see Baden, Mödling – or at all a new medical union – see Linz, which does not bring anything that does not change the bad supply situation, but which is praised by everyone. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The result of this policy: On average, we have far less healthy years than in the EU section 59.4 years with us versus 60.7 years in the EU; even the much flattered English countries are doing better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhauser]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Finally, I can still quote the citizens as they see themselves: 30 percent of Austrian citizens consider themselves ill; in Sweden it is only 17 percent and in England only 20 percent – in a system that is 25 percent cheaper. [[Call at the SPÖ: It's already ringing!]] [[Abg. Katzian: It's ringing!]] I think that should give all of us a thought. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4411	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister for Health, spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4442	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I thank the opposition, that you have chosen the health reform as an issue; this shows and can be used to show where Austria is developing in reforms. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We have made reforms. Austria is the country in Europe, which has the best health system to ensure access to a modern health system for all, and we want to maintain it. The special thing about Austria is that we did this in the crisis. We have not only maintained the health system in the crisis, no, this federal government, all concerned have expanded the health system in the crisis. Why has this become possible? – This has become possible because I have given an invitation to all the partners in the health system to cooperate so that we can put health on even better legs – and that is why it is a national project, namely between the federal government, the countries and social security schemes. We have taken a big step: We have always seen health from the perspective of institutions. That did the opposition today. This is always about a view – the view of the doctors. No, it's about having the overall view in mind: What do patients need? How can we further develop the health system for the benefit of patients? I would like to explain this by an example: stroke. How can we prevent strokes in Austria? – Simple: We need health promotion and prevention. I have set massively in this direction of activities, for example, to improve food sustainably, to eat properly right from the beginning, to introduce healthy school buffets, to make salt reduction. You say if you reduce salt, you have a lower risk. We have promoted the movement with the National Action Plan Movement. A second point is: How can stroke be treated well? It's about the treatment chain being a better one. What is a proper treatment chain? If from the doctor to the rescue, everyone knows how the right handles are. And the most important thing in the stroke is that the partner knows, you must not wait, but must quickly organize medical, medical treatment. And then the right treatment has to be offered in the hospitals. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have done the following in the interest of patients: We say that the Austrian health system can be financed. It can be financed if we reduce costs, and it can be financed if we want to finance it. And the Austrian Federal Government said: We want to finance it, we want to maintain the budget as a whole in the health sector. This led us to have more and more money available for health in recent years. I am very glad that it has also succeeded in introducing new achievements. We have introduced many new achievements, for example in the mother-child pass. We have expanded the vaccinations of children, and of course we have also taken a further step in the development of the Austrian health system with the free gearing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we want more transparency in health, and this transparency will be increased. We also want to improve quality. Our access is to be looked at: How can we improve the quality of results in hospitals, in established facilities? This needs transpa- Renz. It needs discussion. And this, ladies and gentlemen, we want to implement. Better patient information is important to us. And what is absolutely crucial is better communication, and we have commissioned the electronic health acts. The first areas have already been introduced. They know that more transparency is currently leading to a better quality competition. This federal government has set a course over the last five years. Europe looks at us. Europe knows that the people in Austria have good access to the services. This also shows this policy. I invite you to strengthen this Austrian health system. I invite you to participate in an objective discussion on the Austrian health system. And I can assure you quite clearly as long as I work as Minister of Health, it is very important to me that the benefits are gradually increased.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4530	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. I call Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4554	Ladies and gentlemen, it is for me that I have to confess honestly, with what Mr Franz's demands have been made. He wants to put the health system, as I felt it, completely on the head. On the contrary, I think it is – even great – that Federal Minister Stöger has succeeded in bringing all players to a table in health care – regardless of whether this is the functionaries of the medical chambers, who are responsible in social security companies, or the political leaders in the countries. And they all agreed that health services should also be expanded in the future. However, everyone involved has logically become clear that, of course, improved supply must remain financially viable. However, in part, as the Federal Minister has already said, there is a need for ambitious objectives, because one thing is quite clear to us: to ensure more health in Austria together. And now it's about the future. To remain at the pulse of time in the future, all those involved in the reform process have been announced, changes are necessary, yes, because the circumstances of the patients, but also those of the doctors have changed. And that is why we need to bring even more efficiency into the entire health system so that in the future, double-tracks are a thing of the past and these friction losses, which inevitably exist between stationary and outpatient care, often caused by patients. That means to get it to the point: This health reform will focus on people – and not institutions. Therefore, there will be very clear procedures in the future, improved coordination between medical facilities, but also more patient-friendly opening hours. Now that all those involved have agreed on a work programme, we are going to implement this health reform step by step. That is why, thanks to God, we conclude with the shady, outdated structures of a sector-over-sectoral structure. planning in health care are in the way. Now it's going to be thank God in another direction, in a right direction. The stated intention is to improve the health of all people in Austria, regardless of their living conditions. These very health goals are also for a paradigm change: away from a disease, towards a health orientation, in order to enable all people in Austria to live a longer self-determined life in good health. And we need high-quality and efficient health care for all, but also for ensuring a solidarically funded health system – and not a breakdown of our local healthcare phone, as just demanded by the Stronach team, or that NEOS is always in the foreground. If you have said, Dr. Franz, we no longer need these health insurance funds and we also do not need the structures of self-administration anymore, I tell you, the very opposite is the case. I am glad that we have representatives in social security schemes, who also accept the problems of the insured. And I don't need a business operator there, who may cut benefits at the end of the year due to the budgetary situation or then increase health insurance contributions to an extent that is no longer feasible – you experience in Germany again and again. We want to ensure access to comprehensive medical care for all people in the future: through primary care. What we do not need, however, is the access that the Stronach team or NEOS is repeatedly promoting here. For, ladies and gentlemen, even in front of the screens, if I look at what is being pursued by the Stronach team, for example, that there should only be one Austrian health insurance in the future, in which the insured will also be involved in the risk and then perhaps no longer know whether they can still be ill in Austria, I will tell you: We certainly don't need that! Or similarly brutal also the demand of NEOS: These want to offer only more basic services, and in addition increased physical services should then be covered by the insured. – I say no, thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am convinced that this health reform, as it has now been put to the fore, clearly highlights the importance of a health policy with social democratic handwriting. And when I think about the coming Sunday, I'm just saying, Europe also urgently needs a social change of course!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4648	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4670	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! In health policy – the trend is still in the debate today – only money and power are discussed, and unfortunately, the compass is often lost. But if you lose the compass, you often don't know where to go. The main goal, I can tell you – and I am now 30 years established doctor – must be, a high-quality care for everyone – for everyone! – ensure. [[Abg. Worm: And every woman!]] Of course, for every woman, apologise! This is a high goal, which is not so easy to reach worldwide. Then: If someone falls by today, with stroke or epileptic attack, then he's sausageed who belongs to the health insurance fund XY, where is he insured, what he really paid, but he wants a high-quality care. There we are not bad in Austria worldwide. That is why I always say that the one side of the medal is, of course, money, power, various structures of interest and so on, but the other side must be objectives, and the objectives of health policy are not just financial objectives. I accept that 10.8 percent of GDP is a huge sum, and every tenth euro in the world is going to be health care – it must be so, we are getting older, thank God. And it's not just a discussion of grains or how something is set up. I do not think it is right either, Mr Franz, that the Austrians are so sick. You already have to read OECD studies properly. If you ask an Austrian in my ordination: How are you? Bad! If you ask a Sweden: How are you? although they have less sun up there and are not healthier at all, he says: Yeah, I'm kind of fine. – That means you always have to know what you asked. If you ask for hard data, then you'll get on it, Austria has a better life expectancy than Germany, a better life expectancy than Switzerland, a lower infant mortality, a higher surgery rate in heart disease, in the event of strokes. We're at the world's top in cancer treatment. So it's not that bad. The former German Minister of Health Seehofer said that after the reform is before the reform. So, Mr Minister, I can calm you if you always say: the health reform, and carry these like the Holy Grail before you: It is not “health reform”, but it is a permanent process. And a permanent process means we want something good, for that I stand, to do better. This is always difficult, of course, because everyone else has opinions about it, but in total we need to know: Where are the weaknesses?, because we know the strengths anyway. In my opinion, there are four weaknesses in Austria that I would like to mention briefly. The first is: The top-level medicine is going into a crisis. If I see that in the AKH we have difficulties getting top-orders, that you are unable to organize the practical year in the AKH, and tomorrow the first appointment with the city of Vienna takes place, then I have to say that it is an insanity what is happening in the training. In the AKH, the bureaucracy is so bad that many internally cancel or go abroad. And ELGA won't solve anything at all because the AKH doesn't even get its computer system on the line right now. Second point: Of course, we need a local care. We have 2 400 communities in Austria, I am a family doctor myself. What is the best model for me with centres et cetera, if the family doctor is not there at all or does not want to settle down? That'll be a huge theme. We need well-trained domestic doctors. We don't need domestic doctors who fear, not domestic doctors who just move on, we need well-trained doctors. I agree with you, Minister. We have jointly identified various points in the government programme where we want to do more, because the most important thing is not to let a disease get that far until it is difficult to treat. That's the stroke, that's the heart attack, that's the dementia, the suicide, the alcohol problem. Fourth: We need to see that we're reducing bureaucracy. I have a lung transplanted patient in the ordination. He comes to me, needs a drug that's chief physician, I'll discuss with the chief doctor by e-mail, and I won't get it approved. The patient is at risk of infection during this time in the ordination. I think that's already limited to gross negligence, which bureaucracy we sometimes consider patients to be. I'll finish. We are at the cost – that is to say quite openly – in about nine places in the world. We are in the performance around third place, sometimes in first place, sometimes we are worse. The aim must be to carry forward the health care step by step, namely: Who are we talking about in the field of health care? To articulate older people, people who cannot defend themselves, and people who often have difficulties articulate themselves, and they need a lawyer, and the lawyer is called: good health system and good health policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4721	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4743	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you once again praised your alleged health reform, and there was a sentence left to me, because you said we were reducing the risk of stroke by reducing salt consumption. So with all due regard, Mr Federal Minister, if that is all you have to say about this health reform, that is self-evident anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You really can't seriously mean that! Mr. Federal Minister, one of those words that I am still in my ears today when you praised this health reform so much, that was the “Best Point of Service”. Who is this “Best Point of Service”? Is that you, or is that the computer with the ELGA, where people can look in? – It is simply a Murks that you have enchanted here, where nothing has actually been left, except that we now have an administrative level. And that's exactly what we said when you presented your entire health reform here. Nothing is reformed, it all stays with the old. You yourself have written in and have repeated it again and again: It will not change for the countries! – With that, we have exactly the same situation as before. Only more and more money will cost, and one day we will be going out, and just before that situation we are already standing. You said in the Committee on Budgets last week that we actually do not need a cash-flow structure fund, because I – Minister Stöger – have managed to make all the cash registers so wonderful now. You have said something, Mr Federal Minister, and I have been very careful about what you have said. They have literally said: if unemployment remains as low as before. – So this sentence alone, Minister, disqualifies you massively! We have the highest unemployment since the 1950s in Austria, and you call it low unemployment?- Oh, my God! You are trade unionists yourself, you come from the trade union movement, you obviously have no idea what is happening in this Republic! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of the representatives of the NEOS.]] Nevertheless, you think that this health system has now been reformed in some way. Let us now take a short look at this, so that the spectators also know what has happened here over the past few months and years. This health reform has only been carried with pain by the ÖVP. This is also evidenced by the fact that, for example, the country of Lower Austria rich – an EIA-led country – has signed the target tax contract at the last moment. With a follow-up, with a lot of good cutting. So so much for it, so great can't be this reform at all. You don't have a plan for teaching practice financing. All health speakers in the countries – and these countries are red and black countries through the Bank – have taken a decision that the teaching practice should come. You alone refuse, and you can't finance it. So if you have saved so great when the cash registers are as great as you represent this, why do you refuse to pay for this essential training? Why Refuse You think this should come now? So here you've completely failed. Second example: ELGA, where you have always said that it is closely linked to this health reform. Their electronic health records fly, people don't want them trying to log out. This ELGA Commission is completely over-needed with the issue of the cancellation confirmations. Nothing happens at all, it's chaos pure that you're holding there – and since you're here and saying that's all pointed, it's all working well. – It works well with me! By the way, it is also more than worrying by data protection law. We have called for a proper opt-in solution from the beginning, because if the system is really good, people will also voluntarily choose to do so. But what you're doing is a compulsion – and that's exactly what we're refusing. This is a forced happiness on the back of the patients in Austria with discarding all data protection concerns. That's your system, that's what you're doing! Next thing: Budget Committee. We ask you: What will the ELGA project cost in the next few years? – Your answer: € 5.9 million. Next question: What will the application of the ELGA project cost? – Your answer: I said 5,9 million euros. Mr. Federal Minister, you have no idea what is going on in your place at all. You obviously do not know what the ELGA will cost, you do not know what the application of this ELGA will cost, and now imagine yourself here as if you had this system completely in control. - You didn't! Next construction site: the mammography screening program. This has not even been done properly, but we are already doing the next Murks by improving it, putting it on better feet. The programme does not even exist for half a year, we already have to make a total reform, and despite everything, there is criticism of it again. There's no trusted doctor, the trust doctor must be some unknown radiologist now. – It doesn’t work at all, the women don’t accept it, the women are dissatisfied with it. You don't care. It's your prestige project, you cut it off. The topic of gearing would also be such a point. It took hours, I would now list everything, but my speaking time is unfortunately limited to 5 minutes. It doesn't work at all. Mr Spindelberger said – I have to go into that now – that we already want to have it that way and we are quite glad that we are able to occupy the health insurance companies in a way that is almost partial. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] - Yeah, that's why you don't want to put them together. That's why you want to keep the 22 social security funds in place so that you can accommodate your party workers and political pensioners.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4864	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4885	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House! Dear spectators in front of the camera! I do not see the health reform as bad as it is. The reform of health care and social security is already very important for the further development of health care, especially if we are thinking of our children and of the subsequent generations, who want to find the best possible and solidary funded healthcare. Some things have happened that I feel positive and welcome. Partnership target taxation has been successful at the federal and national level, and there are some very concrete projects and objectives, such as integrated care facilities and multi-professional teams in all federal states, which are intended to ensure good care at all times of the day and night and also on weekends. You can only welcome that. The daily clinical services are also to be expanded, as the overall quality of health care is to be offered more structured and controlled. I hope, however, that these projects and objectives will not remain pure words. It should not be a word reform, it should not be a purely financing reform, nor should it be a pure saving programme. We still want the best quality for patients, i.e. more healthy years of life for all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we're missing is: There are still no real proposals for administrative and structural reforms, the expenditure, competence and funding disaster, this jungle, remains. This has been criticised by the Court of Auditors several times, but there seems to be no tendency at all to change something in this regard. This transparency and the responsibilities of the Committee on Health have also been very clearly addressed to us once again. No matter what one addresses, the hot potatoes are still available between the federal government, countries and social security funds. But perhaps the most important point for me at the moment – and I think you don't have to make yourself a Kassandra – seems to be the question: How will these total cost reductions be achieved? I mean, we have to be on the hat, we have to be very, very careful about which controls are used to control patient flows. In addition, I assume that there will be power limitations and rationalizations. In contrast to the NEOs and now also Team Stronach, we believe that savings cannot be guaranteed through privatisation, construction of supplier competitions or performance restrictions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who will meet if the health care system is organized even more capitalistly or according to a profit-oriented logic? – It will meet those who cannot afford private payments. Privatisation leads to negative risk loss. Bad risks, high-risk patients, those most seriously ill, are outsourced, and this in turn also leads to a total erodement of the solidar system. And we don't want that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Profit orientation also leads to poor pay and poor working conditions. There are already very good studies in Germany. In the private hospitals, fewer people work per patient, who are also paid less for their work. The most important point: Privatisation and rationalization – which is now also the matter of the Minister – as a control instrument promote a two-class medicine and deepen the poverty trap. Whoever has money will pay for the better and faster treatment itself. The expenditure of the self-payers in Austria is already €6 billion. We are also top riders in the OECD on this point. This money is spent mainly on outpatient health care and medication. Self-interest schemes are particularly affected by lower levels of income and chronically ill people. How would we make the health care fit? – Through a genuine and comprehensive administrative and structural reform. The established area and psychosocial care should be consistently built up, private payments must be restricted and not expanded and the scratch supply gaps should be closed. [[Congratulation with the Greens]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4965	Next speaker: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4986	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Dear taxpayers! The EU owes the Austrian Federal Government not only because of debt making and deficit, but also because of the catastrophic medical working hours and conditions in the health system. We undoubtedly have a good, but very expensive health system, for which we pay about 11 percent of our GDP; comparable countries pay about 9 percent. Each percent more means €3 billion more. At the same time, our doctors often have really terrifying working hours, are sometimes completely overexploited and often – you have to say that – underpaid for their performance. That's why many wander out, go to Germany or elsewhere where. So you can't be surprised that many young doctors leave and don't come back. In view of the long working hours, you should not be surprised if tragic incidents occur often, because it is really dangerous for patients if the doctor is not rested. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Austria is a European hospital champion and with almost 280 hospital stays per inhabitants even world hospital champion. However, we are basically a civilized and educated people, so anything cannot be voted on by the health system. But this is a huge field, which is why I have picked out a topic that I have looked at more closely, namely the growing healthcare system. We need to get the growing healthcare system under control in favour of the established doctors. It is constantly being spoken of as beds being depleted, in fact, according to recent studies new beds are being built. Stationary medicine, however, is very expensive and not at all aimed at constantly offering outpatient services. Everyone knows the example in Lower Austria with the two hospitals in neighboring places. – That’s why we say: Health must be federal competence! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] As the Court of Auditors rightly says: Income, tasks and expenditure must come from a single source. [[New applause with the Stronach team and the Abg. Stroll.]] To strengthen the established doctors, we need to reduce bureaucracy and allow free entrepreneurship. Only in this way can the supply be provided in the future. ensure the country. Unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer agricultural doctors, so you must not be surprised if the rural area is eroded in this context too. The doctors must, of course, be allowed to choose the best legal form for their practice, possibly also in the form of a GmbH. Each doctor must be able to choose his own staff, and if he wants, he should also be able to hire a managing director. This must be possible, and this would be even wiser because the doctor could then focus more on his medical skills. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Karlsböck.]] I was quite surprised when I learned that it is not possible for the doctor to choose the best legal form for his practice. That's completely absurd. I've researched this for a long time until I've come up with it that it's really about the fact that a GmbH has to pay fees at the Chamber of Commerce – as opposed to now; now the doctors pay fees at the doctor's chamber. However, it must not be that this rigid chamber is in the way of efficiency and ultimately the patient's well-being. That's completely absurd. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] You have to imagine that once. We all expect doctors to save lives, but politics does not even trust them to choose the best legal form for their practice. They are not allowed to do so, for the fines of the chambers stand in their way. Of course, doctors must also be allowed to be employed by doctors. It must be the doctor's personal risk of how he organizes his practice. Only this freedom guarantees individual therapy and good medicine. Only in freedom there is competition, and only through competition do we have the best quality. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Therefore, our demand: Freedom from chamber pressure! We propose that the compulsory fees be reduced by 20 percent each year, unless the member likes to pay higher fees. It also appears that current medicine tends to place everything in guidelines and schemata. Every person, that is, every doctor, every patient, is pressed in, and the personal, the human, which is extremely important in medicine, is lost. That is why we say: The established doctor must be recognized as a fully responsible physician. He knows his patients and should not have to be prescribed by the health insurance chief, as he has to treat his patients, especially since he has not even seen the patient. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The system needs to be more efficient, we need to work more cost-effectively and to try to make people live healthy longer. The focus is on prevention, and the last sentence only goes through less bureaucracy, more freedom, more trust in people, health care and at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5104	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5126	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens in front of the screens, on the phones, in the ranks! Health reform is now our topic. Mr Federal Minister, I agree that more has been done in recent years than in the years or probably two decades before that! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what you have to say, and it's definitely worth an applause. However, it is equally clear that this is clearly too little. The basic problem we have – and this is the problem of this Republic, which is also so beautiful and reflected in the health reform: In this health reform, you will rebuild the federal structures. That's the problem! They have no answer to the real problems of uneven financing of health care and fragmentation of control and control skills. That is, you are forced, because of your arrest as a red-black power cartel, to which we have a lot to owe in the Second Republic – that is what I always say – you are forced and damned to become the smallest common denominator ever. That's the problem! I think the problems when we take them in concrete terms are very obvious. The Court of Auditors has often pointed out this, and you too, Mr Federal Minister, have, as I hear, at the latest in the Budget Committee, but also in interviews, repeatedly expressed the capitulation before the existing federalist structures. This is, of course, a mission impossible to make a g’scheite health reform. I also want to praise you for your efforts I recognize, just: As long as there are no other majorities in this Republic, as long as red and black are in charge of health reform, there will be no proper ones. The same applies to education reform, and the same applies to a tax reform that will not be proper. The same applies to federalism reform, and the same applies to pension reform. Some of you want to do much more not want and all together cannot because you have got footbands from your country leaders. Some examples of this in the health field, the Court of Auditors makes this very clear: Example: Hospital new buildings in Lower Austria, four new hospital buildings at a distance of partly 15 minutes to each other. – Court of Auditors report, series Niederösterreich 2012/13 –: “The Land of Niederösterreich decided to rebuild the three national clinics of Baden-Mödling, Neunkirchen and Wiener Neustadt at four locations without examining all alternative actions in the run-up to the decision.” The Court of Auditors is talking about savings of 34 million, which were lowered here, which would have been possible – without any follow-up costs. On the topic of cooperation between public and private service providers. – The Greens as the most deeply etatistic party simply do not have good access to the subject of personal responsibility and freedom. That doesn't happen in her value picture. It doesn't happen. [[Call the Greens: Don't vote!]] You're always talking about a horror. You're panicking. You place the curly cucumber, which has not been around for a long time, you place some people in a way that I consider human hatred. [[Congratulations with the Neos and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Honey: Will you be nervous about the election campaign?]] But they're exploring the fact. Do you know what we want? You've never listened to what we want. In the first word we said, you knocked on your legs and said: So, now we've got her at the Schlawittel, the NEOS! – The fact is that of 267 hospitals in Austria there are 113 private institutions. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Useful!]] 113 – and you're defying it. I don't think that's okay. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Useful! That's the truth!]] Yeah, I'm also for non-profits, that's very okay. That's very okay! I only want to have the commitment from you once, I want you to admit, ladies and gentlemen, that private agencies, joint ventures, can also lead to decent work. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] You're always calling for the state, and you're complicits of a debt policy! - That's not okay! That's the only thing I want to say. Lack of coordination, of course, also with Hainburg and Kittsee. Two hospitals that offer exactly the same portfolio at a distance of 12 kilometres. Why? – Because there is a border between the country and because every country captain cultivates his sleigh species. We could save three billion if, according to the Court of Auditors, we organised the area properly. We could put together social insurance. You don't want all that, you can't. For example, we could begin to release the EPCs from the chamber obligation, give them the opportunity to get away from compulsory insurance. All of that makes sense. Courageous reforms would be useful. That would be an honest budget condition, but even the honest budget you refuse. That is why we are going to hold a debate tonight, because you will hold a sham debate here from Wednesday to Friday. You have let us conduct budget negotiations and budget consultations for a whole week on the basis of wrong figures. This SPÖ, this ÖVP has remained true to the principle: tarrying, fooling and diving! [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You have kept your hypo numbers silent before the National Council election, and this time you will try again. It's unbearable!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5244	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5266	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, I say, has begun his remarks on the fragmentation of health responsibilities very neutral and very realistically. No question, a federalist system – a system where, of course, this reform must also be organised. Systems are, as they are, and in order to change that, it takes far greater majority than they would currently exist for the opposition and probably also for future government parties here. In other words, this reform is organized and geared towards: What does it look like?, and for that it is a really good, namely bringing all people together at a table to look at: How do I clear the differences that exist, how can I make the interfaces to seam? – That is, there is a relatively large amount of what is in store, namely the understanding of it, and also, I say, the respect for the fact that we have now brought together more than in the previous years. What we do not agree with is the question of privatisation. They have now addressed this and have said that we are making a mistake. I also listened yesterday to the discussion on ‘PULS 4’, as regards the question of privatisation, even as regards the question of water privatisation, where Mrs Mlinar stressed, she never said that. I have once again looked at the “press hour” text on health. You said we should look at that again, I did. And then very carefully the question came first after the trash and, after you got into the trash, then again very carefully the question: How do you deal with health care? – And there was Your answer – literally: “There are other countries in which hospitals are privatized and “where that works great”. The domestic health system is good, but very, very, very expensive, and it could be more efficient. [[Abg. Mlinar: That's it!]] So, now we've heard of the number of private hospitals. From the greens it was: What is the difference between private and non-profit? – The private look to maximize their profits – that’s one of the demands: to see how to get the maximum out. [[Abg. Stroll: It's also private!]] But the non-profit also has the obligation to take up all that comes from diseases. And what happens to a private system: Look at what's happening in Germany! [[Abg. Stroll:... Risks!]] The moment one can choose what risks one takes, at the moment the stroke patient is no longer taken. I don't build a station that treats strokes, treats cancer and all these things. [[Calls and calls between Katzian and Mlinar.]] Then I confine myself to the so-called wellness medicine, which I take, which I also provide well and probably very efficiently, but what presents a high risk I give away. Look at what happens in hospitals every day! We have in private hospitals, in the real private hospitals of the “Golden Mile”, often the first operations that bring a lot of money, and what happens when something goes wrong? – In a private hospital that has a manager – manager you always demand – that has a manager, he says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mlinar.]] Hey, get out of here! So I don't take intensive care patients, I don't see I'm making long-term therapies! We are moving this quickly into the sick system, namely to the one that we all publicly finance and that we all pay publicly. – That’s the problem! If you're talking about it today – You have said it again – you do not want compulsory insurance, you want an insurance obligation, then I tell you the following: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] You know what happened in Germany when it came: The health insurance funds – the really good health insurance! – were bookable on the third floor above or via the Internet. They do not believe that anyone who is old and sick comes up to the third floor without a lift or even looks for a health insurance fund over the Internet. [[Abg. Karlsböck: Well, let's do it better!]] That is to say, one has seen that the high risks are taken away again – and the “good one”, the boy said, has been kept. This happens when it comes to compulsory insurance. - That's one. [[Abg. Stroll: We can't make any more debts!]] But actually the Stronach team started this discussion here, and I brought the note back to my colleague Franz, because I thought I was writing along and trying to replicate. – There was such a thing in there that I am really glad that Mrs. Rebauer was still doing so, because this shows the difference between your access and our access and perhaps the difference in making a doctor the Secretary-General. It was no longer the discussion regarding: How does it look for the patients? – Mrs. Nachbaur referred to the fact that she said it was the doctors we need to see that they deserve more – right! – it’s the doctors we need to see that they have such terrible working hours. That's true, but in fact, it's our job to see that patients are as well cared for as well as possible. And that's what we're doing right now. [[Abg. Reproducer:... the one and the other!]] We try to elevate the structures and bring people to a table in such a way that patients are put at the centre – and not the interests of the doctors.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5413	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5434	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Health is an issue that affects every population group and is also discussed by everyone. And what matters are health and fitness, we read about it in all the newspapers, in all brochures, in all weekly newspapers. There are various tips on how to do something to stay healthy or fit. I believe that we can achieve some improvements with the health-structural policy that has been reintroduced, as health and safety must be taken seriously not only by the Minister of Health and the competent authorities, but also by each individual. It is very essential and important to listen to his body and to take medical care if necessary. In this respect, I am particularly concerned with physical diseases, not only with regard to women, but also with psychosocial strains due to multiple strains, including burn-out. We must see these signs as warning and alert signs, so they must be taken seriously. Therefore, a special precautionary programme, as well as the one addressed, is needed. In other diseases, of course, we need to catch up, you have to say. Nothing is perfect or a hundred percent. For example, we know – in turn to women – that in the case of osteoporosis, there is a need for a timely precautionary investigation, which is not currently in place in all federal states and is not offered on health insurance. It is currently true that 600,000 women suffer from bone wound, but only about 120,000 women are treated appropriately, because there is no awareness of preventive medicine for both doctors and women. But also in the cardiovascular diseases, ladies and gentlemen, a lot could be prevented by precautions. In the meantime, more women than men suffer a heart attack, but not because they have a different way of life or they affect them, but because the gender medicine is simply missing. There the symptoms of men are also seen as symptoms of women, and this is a complete misdiagnosis, which you have to say quite clearly. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Let’s talk about nutrition!]] In this respect, I am pleased that this health structure plan contains the fact that we attach great importance to the area of gender, Mr. Federal Minister, because in the case of gender, we simply need different measures in relation to the needs of women and men. This needs to be taken into account in the prevention, therapy and research. There we are to be found in Europe in the last third, and that cannot be it! That is why we need these enhanced measures in this gender-sensitive area of medicine. Yes, and then there is a large area that is very important to me – we have also discussed this in the Health Committee – which is health care in terms of breast cancer prevention. In this context, the new system, which entered into force with January of this year, has resulted in significant deterioration for women. That's a fact, we know that too. And it is that – we know that very well – that 5,000 women suffer from breast cancer every year – 5 000! I don't think there's anyone inside here who doesn't have a friend or a relative who's affected. 1 600 women die of this terrible disease. Therefore, everything has to be done here, especially in the precautionary field, in order to prevent that. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: And that's why there's a screening program!]] – Yes, thank God there is screening, just like that, but it may not be, Mrs. Colleague, that this screening age group is simply excluded, because the cancer is not based on the date of birth, the cancer is not based on statistics, it is just there. You have to see that. In the old system it was so that every woman, if she wanted to and if she needed, could go to these investigations. That's not the case now. Women under 40 are excluded, women over 70 are excluded. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is not true!]] And just the older women can call the hotline; I wonder where they're taking the number. – First they go to the doctor, pick up the number of the hotline, then they call there, hang for a quarter of an hour in the loop, wait until they are heard – and then they get a “invited” to investigate. It can't be! Or if there is still provocative inside, they can register via the Internet. – The older ladies are very much – how should I say? – “tough” and can do that, but that’s an obstacle to many women, and we don’t want it. We want the possibility to continue for every woman, no matter what age, to be able to use this Mamma screening on health insurance, they all pay, you have to see that too. There must be no discrimination against older people or disciples. On the contrary! There must be this dual invitation system with an invitation, but also and above all the possibility to go back to the doctor of trust, to the house doctor, to the gynecologist. Another essential point: If that's true, what I hear or what is said to me, namely that the trust doctor no longer gets the finding, but only the X-ray institution, then, I have to say, we have sunk far down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] I mean the following: Are you looking for international standards? – Yes, if these are better, but I am very much in favour of all the other countries looking for us, because our standards are much higher. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5509	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5530	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, as well as ladies and gentlemen at home, you are following this discussion! Today, when we discuss such a delicate topic as health reform, the interested viewer has the impression that the whole thing is turning around and at best turned on small wheels. I claim that one should roll such a fundamental question once from the other side. We must have the courage to ask the right question: But then also have the cutting to implement the uncomfortable answers here. This is not happening in the discussion right now. The question raised in principle in this discussion is: Are structures that were once designed to be installed at a certain time equally valid at all times? - I claim, no! What started as a citizen movement 100 years ago – to install a social health insurance fund and above all a self-government – is in itself a good thing, but in the present day it is no longer questioned at all, and we have heard many arguments against it and many arguments as to how this system is perverted. We know today that the health insurance companies would be much, much better placed if not this shift into – depending on the counter – 17, 22 or 29 institutions would take place. We are of the opinion that the health insurance companies should be brought together massively. There should be one, from me two or three – you can discuss it – but this wild growth, which has emerged over the decades, which at that time was also very useful, as the order at that time was very useful, has overtaken itself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The local health insurance fund is, in fact, a collection office, but nothing else. It takes in the money of the insured and gives it to those who pay the benefit for the insured. Unfortunately, the health insurance company has today developed from self-management to a kind of self-service shop for its own officials. Such decisions are being made there because the wrong people are also sitting there. In reality, billions are being juggled there, and at the switchlifts, as we have already heard today – this is placed by your side, by the SPÖ, also approved – party officials; Trade unionists who may be doing good work in their field, but who in such an institution have lost nothing but being patients. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cicero has already said the following: “The state service must be carried out for the benefit of those entrusted to it, not for the benefit of those whom it is entrusted.” – That is exactly what we no longer see today. This system invites you to perform crazy things. Mr Minister, I would like to give you an example from Lower Austria, a particularly bad example. There a team works in the management level of the local health fund, which is adventurous. They have offered free anesthesia under the cover of the socially low accessibility for children. – Yes, this is a good thing if the anesthesia for children in the dental area is offered in the cash register system. But you limited it to two ambulatories, and there a doctor complained. This doctor, of course, got right. The courts have determined that this is not the case; the legal base has been restored, and it has been used back. Why did you do that? – Because it was said that it is simply unreasonable for patients to be limited to only two ambulatorys in this respect, so that they have to go there because the patient streams are to be guided there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – It has been said that when it is offered, it must be offered throughout the system. What did the health insurance fund do? - She accused the doctor of greed. We must be grateful to this doctor that it may be necessary for the entire Lower Austrian population to benefit from a sensible measure as well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second story: The reason why this system does not work is that policy does not at all respond to the fact that the living conditions under which the Doctors work, have changed. The doctors today want to live exactly the same way and take advantage of such privileges as the rest of the population. 60 hours a week belong to the past. The young Members do not want to do so anymore. They want to live a new work-life balance, not like in ancient times the agricultural doctors or doctors in hospitals. Mobility has also changed, as has medical research as such. This has to be addressed, but it does not happen. It should actually – and there would have been a lot of winning – everyone do what they are ordered to do. Patients should not be engaged in social and health brains, but should carry out their activities for which they are recruited. Ladies and gentlemen! What does the patient want today? – The patient wishes he doesn't have a long wait in the hospital in the ambulances. He wishes that when he goes to the doctors, he will not be affected by a doctor at 4 p.m. Of course, he also wishes himself a good supply and a slow medicine, not a two-class medicine. – We will not achieve this with this system if you do not ask the right questions and do not accept the answers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you, dear patients, are watching – please another sentence – if you want this system to be changed, then you have to miss out on the left and right of me – SPÖ and ÖVP. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] You have this opportunity on Sunday. Please choose the FPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5637	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5658	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear spectators! I would like to start with a few answers – Mr Strolz is not here now, but perhaps he is directing it to colleagues who are still here. The accusation that we would pursue a etatistic health system, I think, is relatively absurd. And we're not panicking either, on the contrary: What we are trying to do is to ensure – or at least to fight – that we have a health system that ensures that everyone is equally good, that all children, all adults, all older people are treated equally. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That's the only sense. And etatistic to or from: I insist that it needs a good public health system. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Referring to the many questions that have come, or the many keywords – people must be at the heart of the matter – you said, Mr Minister, that qualitative care must be guaranteed, Mr Rasinger said; the bureaucracy must be reduced – I must say: Yes, we agree with all of this, but each one of us is affected, and the term “sickness phone” has already fallen several times today – I believe – we all agree that we also agree with NEOS and all other opposition parties – whose number must be at least reduced or combined. What does that mean? We all experience it every day! I'm just telling you a mini-example from my recent past: My son's 18 now, he's insured with me. I I now happen to be at the BVA and was at the CCC before. Now he has to change to the CCC for civil service. There it is likely to be treated unevenly in certain treatments compared to BVA. When he's finished civil service, he'll have to go back to the CCC. And what does that mean, except a little bureaucratic effort, not just for us? – This is a mini example of completely absurd administration from the field – and this is just the administration! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we consider what we have to suffer from daily shocks in the system, it becomes obvious – and I can also report on an example from Styria from the field of ergotherapy. If a person living close to Lower Austria has a stroke and urgently needs ergotherapy, the following scenario arises: If he is to be treated in Styria, he will have to pay 40 € to the Styrian local health insurance fund; if the same man goes across the border to Lower Austria, he will pay nothing there – this pays him the Styrian local health insurance fund if he is treated in Lower Austria. That's just an example. Another example: Asthmack children who are treated differently in different insurances or who have different entitlements to benefits, is that fair, Mr Minister? Is it even more just what happens in this system with regard to the different benefits of patients? - I don't think so! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I think we should look at it very urgently, and I expect the willingness, above all, of the colleagues from SPÖ and the ÖVP, to really address this, namely not only to cut down the bureaucracy, but to ensure that we have both the choice – if there are several insurances already – or that we are treated at least at the same time, because this system does not allow us to choose for ourselves the insurance we want to be insured with, or then we will be treated differently. It has to explain to me why it depends on the postal code, how I am being treated, why it depends on my insurance, how I am treated, which I cannot even choose myself, because I am at random insured with one or the other insurance, depending on my job. Please, Mr Minister, explain to us why we cannot guarantee that once we are going to reduce this absurd 22-wild growth insurance story so far that we are all treated equally in Austria. We all know that when we drive a car, we need a steering wheel and a driver or a driver. – I can’t understand that if so many players are on the move, they’re really heading in one direction. On the contrary! Furthermore, the interests of patients are not represented strongly enough if they are divided by 22 insurance companies who have different interests again. I believe that it is high time to represent the interests of the patients, Mr Minister, and not those of individual local health care phones and other health insurance companies who, in turn, as we know and as we also partially hear from the speeches of the previous speakers, represent their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5749	Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5773	Greetings, Madam President! Salute God, Minister! Greetings to God, ladies and gentlemen here in the High House and on the screens! Freedom or collectiveism – this is a tension relationship in which the entire policy is moving, and this tension ratio is clearly applicable to the field of health policy. This question – freedom of individuals, collectiveism state – has also been very clearly demonstrated in the previous discussion today. One says more or less, money must not play a role, it has been said that a business administrator has actually lost nothing in hospitals or health policy at all – I don't know exactly that anymore. On the other hand, there is a modern field of research called health economy, and of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is so that health costs something. Before that, politics cannot close its eyes either. And, of course, health is also about money. Mr. Rasinger has today brought a very urgent example that a doctor recommends a treatment that the patient wants, but the chief physician who actually represents the state has said no. – There must be no such thing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This system we have here, ladies and gentlemen, is a system that strengthens the state, the state that puts social security in the foreground and not the patient. [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] To say it a little more plastic: The problem is the state, it's not the solution. If I hear you need to expand your health care, I'll get those ears. Mr Minister, you certainly meant it well when you said today that people should eat less salt. But, you know, you're not responsible for that. You wake up too great expectations to the state if you think you are now responsible for the diet of people. [[Abg. Oberhauser: Prevention program!]] The next thing is that you say people should eat less sugar, or they should eat less of it, they should not do that and that. [[Abg. Oberhauser: less sugar! Come on!]] The task you have is to say: People, you are primarily responsible for your health yourself! You have to see for yourselves what you can do! – And not that the state says from above, so it goes. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] I last quoted the Bible here, this time I can quote the Mao Bible. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What you read!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] There's already inside: Guys, wash your hands before you go to dinner! – That’s certainly a good idea, but that’s not what we have politics for, that’s not what we have the state for. They arouse a mentality that people are no longer responsible for themselves. Why does the plan economy not work and the market economy already? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Because people believe in themselves because people all focus their efforts on their own Take life into your own hands. And so it must be in health policy, too, as the individual's own responsibility is the solution to the problems – and not the state, and not the officials, and not the 22 social insurance companies that we afford here, ladies and gentlemen. Why do so many people go to alternative doctors and no longer believe in that up there, in the state and in school medicine? – They arouse too high demands, that is simply the wrong way to use the state as a cure. So let me conclude in the alternation of a poem by Eugen Roth: It sees anyone who is not blind, as sick as we are in spite of the state. Come on, let's figure out how healthy we are with less state! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5870	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5891	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I'm a little surprised when people who know the health system in Austria go down here to the speaker's desk and pretend that it didn't need a healthy side-by-side and together of public and private components in the health system. All those who spoke here – as Dr. Oberhauser knows, Dr. Rasinger knows, this is what Mrs. Mückstein knows – know that the Austrian health system would not be sustainable without the private elements. A third of the Austrians have private health insurance, and these make a significant contribution to the co-financing of the public system. That is cheaper populism. If you look at the fact that the cash desks and former cash desks, Mr Spindelberger, are standing here and moving over the private, I ask you: Why, then, is the number of cash contracts going back, and why is the number of electoral doctors becoming more? – Their checkouts push patients into the private sector by creating scarcity in the publicly funded sector. – That would be an honest announcement I would like to hear from the SPÖ. Now on health reform. Mr Minister, I have already told you in the Committee that there are some good things on the paper on which the health reform is written, which we very much welcome, namely ensuring low level of access, orientation on care objectives, efficiency orientation, that is, for the patient also telephone and web-based initial advice, the expansion of day-to-day clinical services and new forms of work in group practices and in health centres. But there are a few things where you have already proved how it doesn't work and where you could have looked at others, how it works. When we think of the many discussions about ELGA, we could also take into account that the infirmaries of the Vincenz Group and the merciful brothers have already built up such an electronic health record and that in this system thousands of findings and thousands of patients are already inside without a cry and without there having been a whirlwind. In Sweden and Denmark, there are comparable e-health systems with the National Patient Overview and the National Patient Index, and they have brought it together in such a way that in the surveys the patients and the physicians are satisfied. There are also important expectations for ELGA in this country, namely that we no longer have to be able to externalise our health records when we go to the doctor or hospital, that we do not have to take with us three stacks of copies of all the findings we have to give anywhere that chronically ill people do not have to carry a long list of medications. There, ELGA can provide good services in the sense of patients. But the problem lies in how this is implemented in Austria. Since 2006 we discuss the subject, but in the public was long radio silence, only in 2012 was again a perception of what came from the ministry Come on, it's possible. In between, progress has been puzzled, and those involved will be left in the dark. This causes exactly those resistances that we experience today with the doctors and the patients. This, of course, is all about sensitive data. Health data are even more sensitive than many others. If you look at how such trust elements are handled in Austria – we know that justice officials have sold data, I don't need to tell you about the BIFIE data leak –: There is confidence shaken, and this government is always dealing with it as if it were nothing worth it. And this is the result of tens of thousands and, according to some, hundreds of thousands of people have already signed off from ELGA. We basically support the use of such e-Health methods, we believe that if you look forward ten, 15 years ahead, it will be unthinkable that we are not making use of these technical possibilities. A contribution to performance transparency must be made, and patients must remain masters of their data. The user-friendliness of the system should not be ignored, and due to the fact that it has been run in the background instead of working with the stakeholders, we have to fix the damage in the current operation afterwards. – It can't be! One should not have negotiated at the green table without the exclusion of the public. The target tax contracts provided for are contracts and there is no legal obligation to publish them. The analyses used for further planning are not publicly available, and what the Ministry understands as Best Point of Service or Primary Health Care remains in the dark. We would have wanted to take a step towards creating confidence, a pilot project involving the different Focus Groups, to present their objections, to make their proposals for improvement, and this early and not only in the last minute. That is why we would like to ask you to start a restart of the health reform together with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5962	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:30:31]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5983	We'll be up to date. European hours on the subject: ‘Live value. Austria. The new rural development 2020’ First of all, Mr Auer, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6010	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The current European hour, ‘Live value. Austria. The new rural development 2020’: Yes, in Austria it is worth living that once. The rural areas of Austria have an outstanding position as a living and economic area in the European comparison. Two thirds of the Austrian population live in rural areas and, in addition, almost 29 percent live in transition areas. 35 percent of gross value added is generated in these rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1995, this rural area has become a growth engine, as the Wifo results clearly state. Being a growth engine and growth in general is also necessary as a way to overcome the debt crisis, and that is why this rural area should remain vital in the future. I would, however, like to say something about the economic performance of the European elections on Sunday, and perhaps I would like to make a comment on what is often forgotten with regard to Europe. Not even two whole flight hours east of us is a crisis that, I hope, will not expand. Two hours in the south we have a dramatic debate in Syria. Europe should also be understood as a peace project, and we should do everything for peace and ultimately be grateful for what was done at the time: We are a generation that can live in peace in a beautiful land! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is a country economy, and that means the production of high-quality food, the protection of the livelihoods of soil, water, air; and it is also a crucial economic factor. How did Albert Schweitzer once say: “No future can make good what you are missing in the present!” We have heard a lot in the preparations for these negotiations: minus 50 percent, minus 30 percent. The downfall of the rural family farms was painted on the wall, there was no chance for organic farms, and so on. The fact is, however, that farmers are used to looking forward. We are accustomed not to stand still, but to claim to be in constant change. This flexibility, even though it may even have been unwanted, is the guarantee that it is possible for us to adapt. We are facing many changes, there are many changes for farmers and farmers, whether it be the new period of rural development, the re-establishment of unit values or the transition from historical to regional model. Therefore, I would like to express briefly the contribution made by the new Austrian rural development programme to ensure that these rural areas have a future: on the one hand, a producing agriculture and on the other hand, rural areas as a vital habitat for all the people of that country. Especially in the draft programme, which was submitted to the European Commission for assessment in April, where we expect the European Commission's approval in autumn of this year, a volume of €7.7 billion is budgeted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a significant investment programme for rural areas. The objective of the common agricultural policy is to be pursued. Much can therefore be done, but not everything from this rural future programme. The key element of this future security of rural areas is a multifunctional, as comprehensive as possible competitive agriculture and forestry. This will continue the environmental orientation of agricultural production, ensuring a moderate development of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable to note that, in this challenging area of the EU election, there are statements that you should not forget competitive areas, so to speak, Mrs Mlinar. In the less favoured areas, it is also necessary to provide support, and this programme is the guarantee of that, even in the mountain areas. Such a way out. targeted agricultural policy strategy ensures the preservation and development of this rural region. In the three previous programming periods, it was possible for Austria to ensure this strategy through the development of rural areas. I have looked at this a little and I have chosen the payments that an Austrian federal government has received from these titles. [[The speaker shows a graphic from the “Small Newspaper”.]] It is the Styria, a very strong, economically founded federal country. If this is the title: “The EU has set up billions in Styria”, and that the status as a net recipient has been clearly given, then you should be happy about it and see positively what has been done here, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order not only to say that farmers and farmers and rural areas receive the money, it is noteworthy that the city of Graz has received the most, namely €331.9 million – so that it is also made clear that not only the rural areas, the farmers would receive the compensation, but also the important measures for this development were taken. Even the Council of State for Social Affairs and Vice-Chairman confirms that this is also very positive for the city of Graz, for the country of Styria. Ladies and gentlemen, come back to the economic factor of agriculture: Agriculture secures 530 000 people in employment in the downstream and downstream sectors. What do people in the country and in the country need? – A job, a place to work, to business, the living room, a place to live, health care – this fits in with the fact that in the previous hour this topic was also discussed significantly –, medical care, telecommunications, training opportunities, vital village communities, an active club life. Village development is ultimately an idea from the Farmers' Federation. Ladies and gentlemen, the peasantry is today an important group in Austria, although no longer in numbers, but for the development of the country. It provides the whole population with the most important, healthy food from the region. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The Austrian quality can be seen. We have farmed family farms – not large farms, but farmed family farms, you only need to look at the structure. This agricultural policy, also in recent years under Minister Berlakovich, has helped to ensure that migration from rural areas in Austria was significantly lower than in the European comparison. Nevertheless, we should do everything we can to slow down this migration, this structural change, because it is important that every farm is preserved! Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a need to look at Europe. We have with Elisabeth Köstinger the only parliamentary representative who comes from the rural area. Each and every one will be called on on the next Sunday to give his or her voice. I call for at least the right to vote to be used, because it is important to send a clear signal of democracy as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I said earlier, in the south, not quite two hours away from us, war, in the east, is not even one and a half hours away, there is a difficult dispute. These people fight for having the chance to go and decide for themselves, so to speak, to secure democracy. And we believe sometimes, we don't need it. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Most farmers in Austria know what it is all about. There will be huge challenges, which are undisputed, especially in the coming years. We must ensure that they have the opportunity to stand and also to share in the further prosperity development of this country. We have a similar challenge here even in the future, if you know that 20 hectares are sealed in Austria per day. If land consumption continues as before, we will no longer have a plot of ground in 165 years, and that should be enough alarm signal. It is therefore necessary to point out the importance of a functioning agriculture. This does not help green populism, ladies and gentlemen, because it does not help black-painting or other things, but it is important to interact and cooperate with all the forces that are positive towards agriculture. The farmers of Austria deserved it. I am particularly grateful to our new Federal Minister Rupprechter for his initiatives that a clear signal has been sent in the interest of Austrian farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6129	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6150	Madam President. High house! Let me start by thanking Jakob Auerund to Erwin Preiner, for it is thanks to the two negotiating partners that, on the basis of the intensive discussions of the last few weeks in the Federal Government, we have today been able to adopt the government template on the market regulation law, on the basis of the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy in the first pillar with the new regional model, with the best young purchasers' scheme also in direct payments in the first pillar and, above all, in particular – and this is particularly important to me – with a regulation for the insurgents in connection with the sanctions based on the feeding area problem, which is generally known. I thank you because this spirit of cooperation in the government parties is really exemplary, just as the government is working. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Pirklhuber]] While others are campaigning, the government shows that something is going on here, something is being designed here. As a new member of the Federal Government, I must also stress that this spirit of cooperation and cooperation is very important to me, and I am pleased to be able to work in this team in this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I come to the real issue: “Living worth it. Austria. The new rural development 2020’. Rural development is the programme that we have submitted for the 2014 to 2020 programming period. The goal is to make Austria even more viable. If you've been away from Austria for a long time – I was, as you know, seven years in Brussels – then you've got the comparison. Our country is truly worth living and can stand up to the international comparison. That is why my aim is to build on it and, with the large investment programme of rural development, it is 'life-worthy'. Austria’, this Austria, in particular to make rural areas even more viable. We can build on two major programming periods. They know that rural development has been introduced and anchored by an Austrian to the common agricultural policy. As part of Agenda 2000, Franz Fischler established for the first time a horizontal regulation for the integration of the various policies into agricultural structural policy, the policy for the less favoured regions, an integrated rural development policy. No other member country of the European Union has made use of this possibility as extensive as Austria, in the period from 2000 to 2006 and in the programming period we have behind us, from 2007 to including 2013. On this basis, we were able to build and develop a very comprehensive rural development programme. On the basis of experience, Jakob Auerhat has already stressed that the rural development programme, the first and the second pillars of the common agricultural policy, provides and creates 530 000 jobs in rural areas. Additional 30 000 jobs were created in rural areas during these periods outside the agricultural area. Regional value added ensures the existence of 175 000 agricultural and forestry holdings. This is also a key factor in reducing the rate of migration, as a comparison shows. I quote Professor Hofreiter from the University of Soil Culture. Before joining the EU, we had regular migration rates of 3 to 5 percent from agriculture, today we are at 2.1 percent emigration. You see, the measures taken by the common agricultural policy, and in particular rural development, have slowed down structural change. The challenges for the future are diverse. We must maintain the ecological orientation of our agriculture, we must provide incentives for rural life, we must give prospects for young people and women in particular in rural areas. We must keep the rural area open as a living, as an economic, a settlement area, also as a protection area and, of course, as a recreation area. We must therefore ensure that basic services are provided in the last valleys, we must maintain infrastructure, we must create and develop infrastructure, for example, in the area of broadband. This is our challenge for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress that social cohesion in rural communities is also very important to me. Therefore, this new rural development programme also considers it a priority to develop social services. The legal framework is clear. The reform of the common agricultural policy also adopted and adopted the horizontal regulation in December 2013. On this basis, we have made the programme, based on the discussion with stakeholders, with the social partners since mid-2012. Nikolaus Berlakovich is grateful for starting this initiative very early In March 2014, we agreed with the country agrarians on the financing of the new programme. And on the basis of the partnership agreement we adopted before Easter in the Federal Government for all structural investment funds, I was able to submit the new rural development plan in Brussels for approval. By the way, I would like to report this at this point, from 8 to 10. An international conference on rural development, chaired by Franz Fischler, was held in Wildschönau in May. With the participation of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Committee of the Regions and the Council of Europe, we have a very high-level debate on rural development. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative I also had the opportunity to include these in the Agriculture Council yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] Unfortunately, you were not present, although you were invited to welcome you. They would have liked to be able to contribute to the content. [[New call of the abg. Gartelgruber.]] You were very welcome, all the Members were invited. So don't twist it like that! We have been able to report on this rural development conference yesterday in the Agriculture Council and we will also present the results accordingly. The financial cornerstones of the new framework are clear: The EAFRD provides €562 million, almost €4 billion for the period up to 2020. I would also like to stress this at this point: Through the successful negotiations of my predecessors and also in the framework of the negotiations on the financial framework, we have succeeded in Austria being net recipients in the field of rural development, which is the stronger pillar in Austria. We get more than 4 percent from the overall rural development fund, while our budget share is roughly 2 percent. We are therefore also not net payers from both agricultural funds. I would also like to say this clearly at this point. With the participation of the federal states, we have a total package of €1.1 billion, with a strong support for young people, with a continuation of environmentally sound agriculture, with a focus on organic farming and with a modernisation and quality offensive with investment programmes, as it has never been, with a strong focus on energy and climate protection, because we also need to align the energy transition on the basis of agricultural production and on agricultural production, and, as has been said, a strong component in the context of social services. Let me conclude by drawing a brief conclusion to the elections to the European Parliament. Since the Lisbon Treaty, the European Parliament has been fully involved in the co-decision at European level. And it does not matter who we are sending to the European Parliament as an Austrian Member, when it comes, for example, to clarify with the hearings with the new members of the Commission where, from our point of view, the red lines are in the negotiations on the TTIP when it comes to allowing genetically modified organisms in agriculture or not. We reject it. And it is important that we have representatives there who also represent this position vis-à-vis the new Commission. In this sense, I appeal to all of us to strengthen the pro-European, constructive forces in these elections and, of course, to those representatives who stand for a strong, rural, life-worthy Austria. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6277	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers participating in the current hour of Europe must not exceed 5 minutes. I call Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6302	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers on the screens at home! A warm welcome to me too! Europe – a continent on which to a large extent it can live well. Austria – one of 28 EU countries, one of the world’s leading countries and also within the European Union. The new rural development programme 2015 to 2020 supports this thesis. A Europe of the regions, which must also be strengthened in the future, must address the different needs of people in the regions. Austria, the Austrian federal states, also my home country Burgenland have benefited from the EU accession of Austria in 1995. I should like to mention a few examples of this. The Burgenland is regarded as the best-practice example in Europe, among the European regions, when it comes to bringing about positive regional development through EU accession. I can mention that the Burgenland exports far more than 80 percent of its products. We are also world champions in the use of alternative energy sources. As a result, the Burgenland became 100 percent electricity-powered. I can also mention that from 1995 to 2013 123 500 projects have been implemented in Burgenland with the help of the European Union. That is to say, there is hardly a community in the country that has not benefited from the funding of the European Union. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The basis of the future common agricultural policy is the rural development programme, especially the second pillar, where €3.9 billion is made available directly by the European Union for Austria, for the rural region, of course co-financed by the federal, state and local authorities. I can mention that it was also our Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann in 2013, who was able to reach additional € 700 million for Austria in negotiations with the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, social services are also the focus of the rural development programme. There are also € 118 million available for the years 2015 to 2020, nationally co-financed. In my opinion, this is a very important area, because over 60 per cent of the people in Austria live in rural regions, even in less structural rural regions. Above all, it is important to use the lever and strengthen these less-favoured regions. How is this going to happen? – Quite clearly: Strengthening purchasing power, setting up businesses, safeguarding employment, and additional entry into the rural region. Moreover, value added must remain in these regions. However, I must also mention that this is only possible if the appropriate infrastructure is expanded – not only in terms of road and rail development, but also in terms of the development of broadband Internet. And here I would like to make more than just an appeal to the appropriate Minister for Finance Spindelegger that he abandons the blockade in this regard. 1 billion € is available. This must also be implemented in a sustainable way in order to strengthen rural regions. So, Minister of Finance, give yourself a back! Give up the blockade so that the € 1 billion available for the development of broadband Internet is also targeted at the benefit of the people living in the less-favoured rural regions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We also want to implement this measure in the sense of a rural master plan. For rural areas, of course, sustainable farming, not only food safety, but also healthy food production, is also essential. In addition, it must also be important for the future that the Products are financially viable for consumers. But there must also be a fair income for producers. A focus – we have already heard it – is, for example, organic farming. This is an estimated 112 million €. However, I believe that this is too little, Mr Agriculture Minister, but it still has to be re-adjusted financially if we say that organic farming is the flagship of agriculture in Austria. It is also essential to promote young takeovers. Here you will find €26 million per anno. Investment support in the agricultural sector is also important. The main thing to be able to produce healthy products is the bee protection programme, which is an important focus in the new phase of rural development. However, I must also mention that it is important for us to continue to remain GMO-free, including – this demand for space – in the field of feed use, that we also need to be careful not to be put on the table by the Americans in the framework of the free trade agreement. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The income of income is not only applicable to agricultural holdings, but generally to employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6393	Mr deputies, you have greatly exceeded your speaking time. I have to intervene. Your speaking time is over! I'm so sorry. [[Abg. Preiner's still talking.]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] This is what the honourable Member is talking about. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6429	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's really hard to separate from the speaker's desk. That is why, as I believe, we have a Rules of Procedure. Mr Preiner, if you had perhaps saved the appeal to Mr Finanzminister, you would also have carried out your speech. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, very important, and we are also very committed to expanding broadband. We also know that the proceeds from the digital dividend that should be given to it are in the infrastructure minister's place and that at the next item on the agenda, under which the justification of pre-taxes for the ÖBB will be approved, we will have a huge expenditure on the state, where we will have to issue more than €1.7 billion annually to the ÖBBBB over the next 30 years, and we will only again be in debt in 2058, on which we stand today. [[Intervocation and accompaniment of the Abg. Heinzl]] But I would just like to say: This is also coordinated in the government. That is why I ask you to stay on line with the other things that are coordinated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the Market Regulation Act, we have seen that it can work together. People outside expect us to carry something forward, not that we are here in the tank like the opposition parties to set things apart. Investment in rural areas is an example, and the new rural development programme will also bring us forward. The global phenomenon of urbanization constantly presents us with great problems. I myself am a Member of Parliament from the surrounding region of Vienna, and the commuting problem shows: Only by strengthening rural areas can we finally solve the problems of the cities with regard to deficient infrastructure permanently. However, there is a need for networking between all small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas and, of course, agriculture. Agriculture is one of the largest growth engines in rural areas, responsible for around 500 000 jobs in the in- and in-house sector. There is a great deal of potential for the future, especially for the young court takers, so we have set the priorities in education and training, innovation and investment, because that is exactly what we need. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] There are other priorities, however, because the funds for rural development are not only a levy for agricultural services, but also a question of the production of healthy food. We know that food sovereignty is an absolute core element. We also see that the Austrian population operates very patriotically in the purchase, and we therefore want to be able to provide all food and food, because who feeds Austria? – This is not the savings, it is not the Billa, nor is it the Hofer, but it is the Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of energy and the environment, we have been able to ensure the protection of our livelihoods – soil, water, air – for generations with the rural family farms and thus also for the future. In this respect, we focus on biodiversity or the preservation of rare animal breeds in order to continue this multi-layer path. The European Union's energy supply is a key political problem. Here, of course, we are dependent on unstable states. It is about using our own resources, whether it is biomass from the field or from the forest. We must put more emphasis on this because it will be a future area to introduce appropriate management and to strengthen the degree of self-sufficiency in Europe and also in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, the European elections are about to take place next Sunday. I would like to point out that Europe is not responsible for establishing any state, such as the Social Democratic leader Martin Schulz, who has spoken about where a cross has to hang and where not. That's what we've got to choose ourselves. I don't let myself be discriminated against in my religion either. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Giebelkreuz or...?]] In the forthcoming EU election, voters can decide whether to support those forces such as Elisabeth Köstinger, who can translate the red and white-red agricultural path into Europe and put our impulses into practice, or those forces that want to frustrate us for fear of future developments in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6506	The next item is the speech by Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6527	Mr President. Federal Minister! It is “very harmoniously” in the Federal Government, one has to say, if one listens to the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP who align each other, how they promote rural areas by hindering the broadband offensive. I do not want to know how it is when it is not as harmonious in the Federal Government as you are proclaiming it here. I don't think so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wenninger:... discuss! It's a parliament!]] This may be due to the European election, which may be already, but one must already point out the following: There is always talk about the growth engine of rural areas. If we take account of the farmers and look at the development in the last 20 years since 1995, we know that 30 percent of the farms have locked up. This is not an invention of the liberals, that is a finding of Statistics Austria. 30 percent! How can you talk about a success model that you want to continue? We need to put in place other, more serious measures to strengthen rural areas. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] All the representatives of the government parties here praise the rural area and claim how important it is. Did you do something against the deportation? Look into the rural regions, into the valleys! Police posts are closed, post offices are closed, there are school closures. You're talking about a world that doesn't exist! This world no longer exists, and we need to take measures to really support rural areas. I think he has deserved this because it is not just about food production in the agricultural sector, but about our Austrian cultural landscape. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Also a few words from me about the European election and Mrs Köstinger: I would have liked us not to talk about rural development today – we are still in the next half year in front of us, because we still have a few points to deal with, for example, distribution justice or various measures and compensation payments – but rather about an essential project, which also concerns Europe in the agricultural field, namely the TTIP agreement. You mentioned this with an additional sentence, but it is the essential project in the coming months. I am responsible for the mystery of this agreement, including the Members of Parliament, who, as you all say, are taking the floor for agriculture in Brussels. I am looking for the citizens to become aware of what this mystery means: If everything were really so vain and so good, then there would be no reason for such a mystery. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Brunner.]] When everyone talks about chlorination, hormone meat and genetic engineering, that all this has to be prevented and that this may not be included in this agreement, I ask you: Why does the European Union not make such things public? Faith You really think the citizens can be carried around on their noses like that? Faith Do you really believe that this will strengthen confidence in the European institutions when such a mystery is conducted through the relevant agreement of the coming years, namely, on trade relations between Europe and the USA? I call on you to put the facts on the table and also to clarify the Austrian negotiating position. What does Austria even want in this context? This has not been the case, neither of you, Mr Minister, nor of Mr Bundeskanzler, nor of Commissioner Köstinger, nor of the SPÖ Group in the EU Parliament. [[Call the ÖVP: You didn't watch!]] Nobody's listening to it. There is something in the bush, and that is not good for Austria, not good for our citizens and consumers and not good for our agriculture. [[Abg. Wheeler: Wilhelm Busch!]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Rossmann.]] Austria – this is the theme of the current hour – is undoubtedly worth living, Mr Minister, all of them will confirm this, but this is not due to politics and not even to the agricultural policy of the EIA. – You have to keep that clear and clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to point out the following: I would have thought that after you, Minister Rupprechter, took over the ministry, this has stopped with the waste of money, with this unbearable advertising story that your predecessor has operated with millions of amounts up to the excess. Now, however, before the European elections, we see “at random” these ads in which the Ministry of Life is advertised, all the way in all Austrian newspapers and magazines. [[the speaker holds a copy of a magazine on which an advertisement can be seen]] This does not secure a single job, does not help a farmer, but costs hundreds of thousands of euros! Mr Minister, at least stop that! This would also be a major contribution to fiscal consolidation in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If everyone here makes a big call to go to the EU election, we also take part in it. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Dear citizens, make use of your right to vote, also support those forces that are constructive but also critical of developments in Europe! [[Abg. Wöginger: To be against the EU!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6674	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6695	Mr President. Federal Minister! The question is the choice of topics. Mr Jannach rightly asked whether the issue you are proposing today for this European hour's current hour was right. I believe that rural development is worth being discussed here. It is a key element of European policy, in addition to regional policy and the common agricultural policy. Together, about two thirds of the European budget affects these policies. I believe that this should be discussed even more often, because unfortunately many words fall on this subject and a lot of lip confessions are made. Let us look at the facts! The Federal Minister rightly said that Franz Fischler, as Commissioner, contributed significantly to the development of this second pillar of agricultural policy: rural development, which since then has also promoted mountain farmers and environmental policy in Austria. Yeah, that's right. But what about the development, Mr. Federal Minister? From the year 2000 – that was the first year of the programme period 2000 to 2006 – we still have a significant reduction in environmental funding in this programme. From 2000 to 2006, it was still 61 percent of the funds invested in agri-environmental measures, with the new programme, it will only be more than 40 percent. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a massive increase in investment funding – from less than 4 per cent in this new programme to more than 9 per cent. But what is the challenge? – To pay off environmental benefits in rural areas – €500 million less in the new period! Mr. Federal Minister, you have taken action to restore Austria to the environmental model country. I have not yet noticed anything about the facts concerning the real facts, for example the programme presented. - That's one point. Secondly, At the end of the day, they gave a very brief opinion on the Transatlantic Investment and Free Trade Agreement. That's the challenge! Europe needs a common and strategic clear orientation. That is why these European elections are so important and therefore it is crucial that the European Parliament act actively and offensively against the Council – in which you sit where the Heads of Government sit! The European Parliament should be in favour of preventing this confidentiality of the documents – which is your task – and that these documents should finally be released. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] - Yes, that's the challenge. You and the Federal Chancellor must act in the Council to ensure that these documents and this trading process are disclosed. There is the possibility in the Austrian Parliament to make a document request. That's what we did. We have received the documents, but they are subject to confidentiality. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just not up-to-date. The new European Parliament is called on to become active at this stage, and it must also be clear that these elections are now a policy: Will it be more citizen information, more transparency and, above all, the protection of our interests in the environment and in the food sector? That's why I'm saying: We need more fair trade and no more free trade. This is the political message we need. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we make a concrete effort to do something here in Parliament, we could also make a survey. Mr Auer, I asked you and the ÖVP quite specifically: Are we making a survey of the TTIP, this transatlantic investment and free trade agreement? – But to date, the ÖVP has only refused to do so. [[Abg. Rädler: Do we have to do everything you say?]] It's not acceptable. We also call for an open, transparent discussion in Parliament on this free trade agreement, and this should be on the agenda. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] What happens instead? – They reduce organic farming in the premiums, cut farming by minus 20 percent – that is true, Minister of Agriculture, the facts are on the table: minus 20 percent in the agricultural premiums, so you see that – and 546,000 hectares you want to reach as a target by 2020. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: That's not true!]] But we've almost reached that! So your expansion plans are anything but offensive. [[The speaker presents a panel entitled “Bio.logically now! Yes, it is!”]] We say: “Bio.logic now! Yes, it is!” We could do it: expand organic farming in Austria, actually be 100% free of genetic engineering and remain free of genetic engineering, and enforce it from seed to feed. That's the challenge. Our MEPs in the European Parliament – each individual from each Member State – are 100 percent behind this call for the José Bové, Martin Häusling, Thomas Wise or Ulrike Lunacek to be. We are fighting for a non-genotechnic Europe. We are fighting for a Europe of citizens and against the power of the corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6791	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6813	Mr. Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at the Besu-chergalerie, but especially in front of the televisions at home! I would like to thank you very much for now being brought to the debate before the election of this important topic of rural areas, because there is enough to say about it. The rural area has already been presented as a very important investment area, but we experience daily thinning. Mrs Dietrich will then bring the area of financial compensation and represent what would be necessary in rural areas. We're losing there. For the most part, the municipalities are unfinancing and most seriously indebted. There is a great need for action here. We have the problem that jobs are being sucked off just outside the rural area. I would like to take an example from my district city. A consumer temple was built there, and is now being discussed about the city center shops, which unfortunately also close. But the many hundred jobs with which they are recruited are missing out in rural areas, in rural communities! These EPUs, these SMEs will now be victims of these wholesalers, and workers must now, instead of going across the road to work with the passenger car 20, 30, 100 kilometres into work and partly need half of their salary again for the fuelling of their vehicles – another attack on the rural area. For this reason, families have been recruited to receive €4 per month more child support, with a starting position of minus 33 per cent, because the family allowance has not been corrected for ten years, and this is particularly true of rural areas. At the same time, a mother – and he needs a car in the rural area – has to pay for a car with 70 hp engine power 4,20 € more on motor-related insurance tax. The money is put into the right pocket and taken out of the left pocket again, and is said to have achieved a lot. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At the same time, I would like to bring some reality into this House. When the Wildschönau is mentioned, Minister – wonderful, Sixtus Lanner, a great thinker – then I can answer with Tirol: It is one of the largest gastronomy suppliers in addition to Metro or AGM, namely the large group Wedl. [[The speaker shall keep a prospectus of the said group up to date.]] [[Abg. Auer: That's where you bought it! There you were! You bought something!]] –Of course, otherwise I wouldn't have the prospectus! Mr Auer, I cannot steal him! [[Abg. Auer: You always have to remember that! You bought it there, we know that!]] And now I'm allowed to show you. You're, you know, Tyrolean descent. [[The speaker points to food shown in the prospectus.]] I've got everything on it from New Zealand through Nebraska to Poland. That's reality. When we talk about rural areas: I want the tourism companies, the hotel companies, the gastronomy companies to offer our products as well. The guest who comes to us not only wants to enjoy the landscape, he also wants to enjoy our specialties. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... with you in the inn!]] I understand the excitement of the Members of the Government Party. The agricultural policy has not been so successful, Mr Auer! I have the latest statistics in Austria on beef imports. I am delighted when it is said that we have 200 percent export increases. I've already asked two, three times: How does it go when more and more farms close? 150,000 farms have locked up and at the same time agricultural exports are increasing. Well, that's where we have the solution: Czech Republic 2007: 12 000 tonnes, 2013: 25 000 tonnes; Slovakia 2007: 2 600 tonnes, 2013: 8 800 tonnes. With my honor, where does the raw material for our Austrian products come from? Mr Minister, I am very much with you when your programme of principles says that work has to pay off, production has to pay off, but we have to do something for it. A final example of a large group, which is now listed in the TTIP agreement, where we are of course in favour of excluding the food. At the same company I bought Indian grapes. They were so irradiated that they stood at the farm uncooled for three weeks at the table and remained equally dark green and toxic green. My 13 lockers didn't eat them. The same group currently has Egyptian Heurige. [[The speaker shall keep the packaging of the said products up to date.]] Friends, what's on it, that's all about our current consumption behaviour. That's where we're all demanded! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Rädler: There's your place in the inn!]] One final example: If Mrs. Köstinger is against the chlorhenderl, however, she must be careful when she advertises with Tyrolean bacon – again Tirol, Mr. Col. Auer! – then let’s see what pigmeat in the Tyrolean bacon is inside with geographically protected indication, whether this has not been done with the ship before or from a Polish industrial attitude. I don't have a problem there. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Last example – then I'm done –: Vorarlberg also confirms these figures. Member of the Council of the Landesrat Schwärzler has shown in Vorarlberg who serves all the farmers' money there: the ski lifts Lech, the double-mayr cable cars, the state government, non-profit housing...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6935	Your speaking time, Mr Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6951	I think it's enough. There are a lot of wrong money inside in this farm budget. We would rather have them in the economic budget that we would prefer to have at the ÖBB or elsewhere. – Thank you for the attention. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Please cooperate! The rural area is habitat, is recreation area, is tourism area, is economic area. We must work together to revive this valuable cell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6987	The next item is Mrs Mlinar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7008	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! [[Abg. Neubauer: What does that mean?]] – In the meantime, You know that, my colleague. That means: Dear ladies and gentlemen! - I'd like to write it down to you. [[Abg. New builder: You never explained it to me!]] I would like to make my contribution to the subject of ‘Lifeworthy. Austria.” begins with an express praise and appreciation. Austria is very happy to appreciate itself, agriculture has tradition in Austria and agriculture has quality in Austria. [[Abg. Prince: That's why you delete the compensation payments!]] Only when we think about the inhospitable conditions of the Austrian miners maintaining their farms, you simply have to respect these people. Not least due to the high quality and specialization on, for example, organic products, domestic products differ from the mass products from other countries, and this is supported. If you want to, we have always been pioneers in the field of organic farming. - So far, so good. What is not so great, however, is the fact that in Austria the positive influence of the European Union in the context of rural development is often fixed at the level of subsidies. The agricultural sector is known to be the only area that is united, almost 40 percent of the EU budget goes to agriculture. Unfortunately – and since the reliability of the support measures is already relativizing – the majority of the funding pots go to large groups in the agricultural sector. If it is sold in the Ministry of Agriculture as a success to prevent a reduction in the EU budget, this is more than cynical compared to the small rural structures. I would also like to express this very consciously to the address of the Farmers' Federation and to Mr Auer, who is not here at the moment. But I really don't want to talk about it today. Rather, it is about critically noting that in Austria rural areas are often equated with agricultural areas. However, to capture rural development in its entirety is a little more complex – the Minister has already suggested this – in general, it is necessary to look over the edge of the plate, because only then does the big and whole thing become apparent. This is what I would like to do here today, by bringing measures to improve infrastructure, measures in the field of connected energy policies and measures to promote the trans-regional education initiatives into this discussion. Over 56 percent of the population in the 28 EU Member States live in rural areas. In rural areas, it is also a matter of ensuring services of daily life. It is known that this represents and falls the attractiveness of a region and a space as a place of work and life. When we talk about infrastructure, energy policy and education initiatives, we are talking about the developments of the 21st century. At the end of the century, of course, a Europe of the regions. I would like to make it quite clear to Mr Erwin Preiner, who has already indicated this in his speech and has also done so. The only way to get rid of increased budget pressure from NEOS is if we are forced to consistently look for ways to deal with common concerns together, across regional borders. In this way we can set up initiatives to relieve the respective national budget. We must begin to think more in regions rather than stop at national borders with these cooperations. If we are talking about energy supply, then we must jointly consider decentralised and central energy generation. The principle of local production, combined with the principle of local use, must not stop at city, country or state borders. The same applies to education initiatives. There are initiatives in the European context such as Erasmus+, but we know in Austria that only about 350 of the 125 000 apprentices attend this offer every year. It must be our goal to dramatically increase this number. Our aim is to ensure that up to 10,000 young apprentices per year perceive this possibility, go abroad, experience Europe and experience on their own what a great opportunity this is for our Europe. It is important here to invest in our youth, in their education and training. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Rural development is a challenge, and it is not up to us to meet farmers with fears and to operate black painting. Have courage for hope! - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7084	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7106	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Live value. Austria. The new rural development 2020 – this is of course also an important point for Austria, because Austria is made up of rural areas, but at the same time one has to say, rural areas can not only be narrowed on the agricultural question, because the habitat country, the habitat village, the many valleys and areas of Austria are an important point. 44 percent of the EU budget, which is €413 billion, went to agriculture most recently, mainly in land premiums. That's good in itself. However, I believe we must also see, at the same time, that we have not only a question of agriculture and product but also a question of the labour market. We see that in rural areas, 2 to 3 percent are less people in employment than in cities. This is why rural development programmes must also be set up for young people in the field of employment, employment for women and employment. 27 million unemployed in the European Union, including six million young people, are an alarm signal that makes it quite clear Europe needs a social turnaround, Europe needs a new course that takes into account the needs of the people who are young people on our continent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore also important for me to stress in the course of this debate that rural areas also mean investment in social services, for example in childcare and on-site care, but that is to say, to support tourism, the gentle tourism that we live in Austria. This also includes our trails and huts in the mountains, as well as that we support this route and hut in Austria even better in the course of gentle tourism in the future. If we say that six million unemployed young people are too many, then we must set up programmes in Europe so that these young people can see a chance and a future again. That's where the question arises: Where are we taking the money? 1 000 billion € are lost annually in the European Union due to tax fraud because it is tax evasion; that is to say, the fight against tax evasion at European level, the fight against tax fraud is a very important point to obtain funds for employment and social innovation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also about finally introducing the financial transaction tax. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does this have to do with agriculture?]] There are also important means of speculation. It is also important to ensure high European standards. Especially with TTIP, that is, this negotiation of a European-American free trade agreement, it is an important issue for us Social Democrats that European standards, namely social standards, worker standards, food standards and health standards should not be undermined. Secondly, There's no reason for secrecy. If such negotiations are conducted, then transparent; if they are kept secret, then we are the first to be suspicious and vigilant here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me, however, turn to one point at the end. In the European election campaign, in the various discussion forums that we have gratefully, the question has been raised again: Private or State? There is a wealth of services for me, where I say quite clearly: Get your hands off me! Hands away from privatisation! No privatisation in health, no privatisation in water, no privatisation in waste. We have good standards in Austria! No privatisation of social housing! We want these things to be well organized in the State hand in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: A sentence on agriculture!]] ==References== In May, European elections, and most important of all in these European elections, are to recognize that, for the first time in this regard, it is a direction decision in Europe, namely the direction decision: Who will be President of the Commission? Will it be a Christian conservative like Jean-Claude Juncker, or will it be a Social Democratic who stands for exactly the points I have raised, Martin Schulz? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a dangerous threat!]] Each Austrian can decide who the Austrian MEPs are for the EU Parliament, as well as decide in which direction Europe is heading. And that's why my appeal is: Please take part in the European elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7206	Mr Sieber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7228	Mr President. Minister! High house! Since we are talking about rural development today, I would like to begin by thanking the negotiators. You have made it possible for us to talk about a good project today. On the one hand, it is our Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, and on the other hand our Minister of Finance Michael Spindelegger and our then Minister of Agriculture Niki Berlakovich, who really negotiated the foundations on which we can build. But above all, I would like to thank our EU Member Elli Köstinger, who has done a great deal here in his main responsibility and has achieved a great deal for Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Jannach, you have referred to the Elli Köstinger Free Trade Agreement. You are right, here there is a high need for vigilance, and we must be careful that European standards do not come under the wheels. But it is just Elli Köstinger, who repeatedly points out that there must be great caution here. I ask you, Mr Jannach, to: Dissemination You do not have a total panic, because you need to know that all 28 Member States have to ratify this agreement. So it will also be up to us to say yes or not to sign it. [[Abg. Jannach: A kneefall in front of the USA!]] Mr Pirklhuber, in connection with your criticism of Elli Köstinger, I would like to tell you that your candidate, Mrs Lunacek, is currently running a rather strong Dirty Campaign against the ÖVP. It is interesting to note that an initiative called on Commissioner for Trade De Gucht to firmly anchor the EU's geographical origin in the negotiations, an initiative which, in turn, was taken by Elli Köstinger and signed by MEPs from 15 Member States, that none of the Green Members signed it. That's a great surprise. [[Oh-Rufe and congratulation at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Look at this! Where was the Lunacek?]] Mr Mlinar, without really wanting to attack you now, but I think you simply have too little insight into the whole agricultural policy. To say that the Federal Farmers' Union would have been badly negotiated here, and to ask itself that the budget at EU level in the agricultural sector, which is far too high, should necessarily 3 to 4 percent away from agriculture to research and development, that is cynical. That's farm money you want to take away from us, and that's not superfluous to cynicism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mlinar.]] [[Abg. Strolz holds a sign with the inscription “Do not vote” in height.]] But now to the program. Of course, rural development has many positive aspects, it is based on proven ones, and there is a great recognition value. For example, the adjustment of the uniform operating premium, which will be carried out by the year 2019, results in a slippery transition to equal premiums per payment entitlement. This continues the decoupling path taken in 2004 with the introduction of the single operating premium. It is particularly helpful for mountain farms which have so far had low farm premiums as a result of the historical programme. At the OPUL, the measures that have proved to be successful are continued. The nature conservation measures are unchanged and can also be expanded. The Bio-Program starts at a high level and is being strengthened. Personally, it is also important for me to maintain an important measure for greenland and hay-milk areas, and that is the ban on silage. This is a very important point for mountain farming. The AZ focuses on mining zones 3 and 4. These are areas where agriculture needs to be operated under particularly difficult conditions. It is about a greater emphasis on the individual operating difficulty, but also linked to painful cuts in the more productive conditions. This means demarcation within the disadvantaged area according to eligibility based on the soil climate. Only by this was it possible to increase the high level of compensation in zones 3 and 4. In my opinion, it would also be important for us to be able to rethink the nitrate regime here, because it makes little sense, ladies and gentlemen, that the same nitrate values may be used in the extremes as in the favors where we have significantly more production. We need to think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that an important step has been taken at the time of the Court's adoption. I also think that your criticism – too much money in investment promotion – is going empty, Mr Pirklhuber. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is a good programme on which farmers can be built and on which there is security for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7320	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7342	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Rural development by 2020 is a very important issue. The rural area has an above-average importance in Austria. Two thirds of people live in rural regions, which should remain the same. The rural area, ladies and gentlemen, is often seen only as a recreational area, but it is much more. It is in every respect an economic motor, whether it be agriculture or forestry, the environment, water or our healthy basic food produced by many hard-working farmers. Yes, it must be worth something to us! Recent events have shown the importance of managing remote farms and pastures. Through their hard work, farmers make a significant contribution to the protection against natural hazards and natural disasters, slope slides, wall exits and avalanches. Would the farmers not manage their farms, and here, in particular, the mining plants, what would the landscape look like? – The guests would not be able to see tourism break in and the people in their homes, apartments and settlements in the valleys would no longer have protected them from natural hazards. If the farmers and the rural youth were no longer to manage their farms and the public hand would have to take over the landscape care, this would be unfinancial, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the people of the rural regions deserve thanks for their efforts, their activities and their hard work. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Hagen.]] The rural area, ladies and gentlemen, is an economic engine with everything that belongs to it. It must not be further diluted: neither by means of a financial compensation for the communities concerned nor by a privatisation of water for speculators and large industry, as NEOS would like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strolz holds a sign with the inscription “Do not vote” in height.]] We strongly reject this procedure from the FPÖ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7393	Now comes Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7414	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Seers here in Parliament and also at home! The title of this current European hour is: “Living value. Austria. “ – I think Austria is very worth living, and it’s our job here to keep Austria alive. But not only Austria. This means not only working here in Parliament, but – at least – also in the European Union, but also in the individual regions. Against this background, rural development and rural development programmes are particularly important because there are also very special challenges in the rural regions. We Greens are committed massively to independent regional development. This does not mean putting giant projects, groups in regions and making regions dependent, but rather supporting regions to develop themselves from their own opportunities, their own potential and resources, and also young people in rural regions to be able to offer jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Against this background, I am particularly sorry that the LEADER programme, i.e. the programme, which particularly supports independent development in the regions, has been reduced, although there are some positive approaches in the budget. It is only not clear to us what these are used for. I would ask you, Minister Rupprechter, to have transparency. I mentioned it: It is not only our task to preserve Austria's worth living, but if Austria is to remain worth living, it also means a lot of work in the European Union. This will be of particular importance for the coming Sunday, because this day many changes will be made to the future direction of Europe in the coming years. For us Green is quite clear: We work uniformly with all Member States and also in the European Parliament to ensure that genetic engineering has not lost anything in Europe, that there is a variety of seeds in Europe and that there is no need for farmers to buy seeds from groups, that small-structured agriculture, organic farming rather than agro-industrial and mass farming is strengthened to ensure that the rivers remain free from plastic and, when we talk about water, water is certainly not privatized, but remains the task of the public authorities as part of the basic supply. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Mlinar]] [[Abg. Stroll holds a sign with the inscription “Do Not Vote” in height]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For us, Europe must be quite clearly a Europe that is not under the dictatorship of the corporations, which cannot be levelled down social standards and environmental standards from groups, but that is conscious, protects our environmental standards, protects our social standards, and advocates fair trade instead of free trade. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For us, the transformation of our economic system into a climate-friendly, environmentally friendly economic system is central and also central to a world of living. That is why the project of the energy transition, the consistent exit from nuclear energy, coal and fossil energies is a central goal for the European Parliament in the next few years. It is Europe's pioneering role of central importance for the European Parliament. The next climate conference, the key climate conference 2015 will take place in the EU, in Paris. This is not only about whether we live here and now, but also about whether future generations can live worth living and whether we can live in other parts of this earth. That's our responsibility. We and all of you will be able to contribute to this on Sunday. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also necessary, as has been said, for the EU to play a pioneering role. I also expect you, Minister, to have a pioneering role here in Austria. The European Parliament, which is also important to me, has again and again taken stronger positions on environmental issues than the Council, has been an important counterpart to the Council, has also pushed forward positions. That is why it is also very important to take part in the elections on Sunday and to strengthen Parliament as a whole. For Austria, I see it a little critical at the moment whether this pioneering role is achievable or not. The environmental budget, the public expenditure will be greatly reduced. This means that revenue, which we receive from free resources, is simmering in the budget, and the opportunity that environmental policy has in particular for rural areas is lost. We Greens are fighting for this opportunity to make environmental policy for rural areas, for Austria, but also in Europe. Nevertheless: Austria urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7515	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7536	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My dear colleagues! High house! ‘Austria. Value of life. “, that’s a motto that, I think, everyone can underline here in this room, because Austria is le- benwert. But the rural area, ladies and gentlemen, gives us no reason to rejoice, no reason for joy, because the rural area is our child of concern in Austria. I live in the Upper Styria, near the district of Murau, and if you look at the data there, you notice a migration that is similar to the one you are looking for. It is less than 37 percent of the population under 35 years of age, gross income is less than € 17 000, and youth unemployment is more than 12 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! The answer that policy has given to these problems in recent years was: The closure of the Post Offices, the District Headquarters, the Courts, the closure of the police departments, and the closure of the municipalities. That is, the rural area has been emptied, depopulated. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You can't wonder if even a SPÖ citizen from St. Sebastian says: It is a question of when we are still being relocated, i.e. when the population is finally moved from rural areas. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must take this issue seriously. We must not fall into the trap and spread a joyful mood where there is no reason to rejoice. Reiner Klingholz, the head of the Berlin Institute for Population and Development, meant that the alarm bells would have to ring at the latest. That is to say, Mr Minister, even with you, the alarm bells would have to ring and the concern for rural areas would have to be taken seriously once. If we say that our solution, our political solution, is that we grant support, then I can resist it: Many promotions are only death aid. Let us take a serious look at these LEADER promotions! What's going to be evaluated? – For example: How many events has it been? How many workshops have taken place? How many people were involved? And at the end of the day, the communities face unfinancing because they cannot obtain these projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural population is paying the same taxes as those in the city, but only half of the funds come back over the financial compensation. It must not be surprising if the rural regions cannot develop as much as the urban regions. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This will be the sample of the policy in the renegotiation of the financial compensation. Here you will show how much you value the rural area and how much you are willing to give to the population in this rural area. In Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen, we recognized very early: There are two control elements: first, the spatial planning and second, the tax policy. In other words, tax policy could create competitive conditions in the regions, let the individual regions compete against each other, but also see how they can negotiate location advantages for future entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In other words, we need to become more responsible for people in rural areas. If I look at the answers of Styrian politics – to unite communities, to cross the population, not to involve anyone, because the people in the state government know how to do it – then I believe that this is absolutely the wrong approach that red and black have chosen for the Styria. Mr Kurzmann, Landesrat aus der FPÖ, is even of the opinion that one should only have city priorities where four times the day of public transport stops, four times from the same direction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a demise of the rural population. It's a driving that these people didn't deserve. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would ask you to show more honesty, to address the problems honestly, to take rural areas seriously as a child of concern, and to take appropriate measures to strengthen them in the context of the financial compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7638	Ladies and gentlemen! We have a visit to our High House from South Tyrol. I warmly welcome the delegation from South Tyrol, led by Mr Sven Knoll. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mr Klubobmann Strolz came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7669	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear citizens on the visitor gallery, on the screen, on the phone, on the TV! Dear South Tyrol friends! I'm very pleased with your visit! I was in South Tyrol two weeks ago. [[Abg. Rädler: It hasn't noticed at all!]] It is always a pleasure to see this flowering land. [[Further calls at the ÖVP: This has not been noticed at all!]] – I know some want me to solve a one-way ticket, but it will always be a vacation and no arrival to stay there. But, of course, you're putting the bridge: Rural region, rural areas, this is our topic at the present hour of Europe, and I would like to present our vision of our Europe. What vision do we have of the Europe in which we want to live in ten years in which my children are to live in 20 years? - It's supposed to be together! That is why we always want to put this together in the foreground. The relationship should always be in front of each other. This applies to the 28 countries among themselves, which applies to our neighbourhood policy, which applies to the city-land ratio. Ideally, that will always be one another. It's not supposed to be against each other, we should never play it against each other. The rural area is extremely important, is a very central pillar. This is of course important to us in our image of a Europe of strong regions. It will not play without strong rural areas. And now the question is: Where do we have the problems? – These are numerous. There's enough research. As far as Styria is concerned, for example, a study prepared on behalf of the Styrian government by the Boku states that we have a problem with regard to the issue of aging, including with regard to the gender relationship. Young women in particular leave these regions as soon as possible. We have in some districts a overhang of men to an extent of two-thirds. This is, of course, not sustainable. I would like a Conchita sausage to be home also in rural regions and that it does not feel that it has to move into the city. [[Abg. Lopatka: Where does it come from? She's from there! - Such a fool!]] [[further calls at ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You may know yourself in South Tyrol, but not at home!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Where is Bad Mitterendorf? Where's Bad Mitterdorf, colleague Strolz?]] That is, our mentality change – we want a mentality reform for Austria – is intended to capture the city and country! That's our dream, that's our vision! I would even like a Conchita sausage in the ranks of ÖVP delegates. Good thing on this trip! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We also have topics in the Waldviertel of course: In the forest district, the population is shrinking, and we have enormous ageing. Of course, we must look at this, and we must counter it accordingly. What can we do? – Of course, we need a functioning infrastructure. And that is why, of course, I think it is more than just a advertising drop that we cannot invest the funds from the license auctions in broadband expansion, but that we must stop holes at all corners and ends. Especially the Internet, the World Wide Web is of course a umbilical cord for modernising rural areas, and it is a pity that the circulation in this umbilical cord does not work as we wish. That means that we simply have to set priorities. But that also means that we have to deal with reforms in other areas: Pension reform, health reform, federalism reform. - You know my mantra. I'm not going to roll this out in full length. Second point, next to the infrastructure: Of course, we need an entrepreneurial Europe. If you want such a thing, choose Angelika Mlinar! [[Abg. Wöginger: What do we do with the Russians?]] She had a biscuits factory in Slovenia. If you want to have a mining child in the European Parliament, then select Angelika Mlinar! She knows town and country, she knows Europe! [[Call the ÖVP: The Russians then take us off the water!]] Of course, we also need an entrepreneurial Austria. You know what to do: The entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs, especially SMEs, small medium-sized enterprises, one-person companies, are moaning under the tax and tax burden. They can't be anymore! We take the air for breathing. That's not good. We must also promote reforms in education. And, of course, agriculture. How important is agriculture? [[Call the ÖVP:You are an expert for everything!]] I'm an expert on everything, because I'm a mining hostbub, I grew up in a mining farm. I don't know if your partyobmann is a mining leg! But I know what it means to earn the bread as a miner. And one thing is perfectly clear: We won't take money away from the miners! It is quite clear that a miner in the Klostertal valley, in the Hinteren Walsertal or elsewhere in difficult situations cannot compete with areas in northern Germany, the Netherlands and so on. But one thing is clear: Europe does not have every billion in the field of agriculture. We must be so honest to say: Where we are promoting industrial agriculture, we must go back to support, but not to small-scale, not sustainable agriculture. So I wish myself flowering landscapes, and I wish myself a mining child in Brussels! [[Abg. Lopatka: We too!]] You know what you have to do. [[Call the ÖVP:Köstinger!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7829	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:56:24]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7850	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8043	Mr Kunasek, ladies and gentlemen, asked for urgent consideration of the written question 1501/J by Mr Kunasek, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport on the lack of willingness to use the Federal Government as a result of savings. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 489/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8065	I also say that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply 489/AB of Question No 582/J by the honourable Member Mag. Alm, colleagues on requests for red-and-white red card and red-white red card plus by the Federal Minister for the Interior Mag. Keep Mikl's head. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will be held following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8086	For today's sitting, it is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3, 7 and 8 and 9 and 10 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8110	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81, FPÖ 75, Green 63 as well as Team Stronach and NEOS per 33 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who accept this proposal for a speech time to give an appropriate signal. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:58:49]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (53 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a Federal Law on the Promotion of Film Location Austria (FilmLocation Act) as well as the Public Service Promotion Act 1984, the Press Funding Act 2004, the Bundesmuseen Law 2002, the Federal Theatre Organisation Law, the Federal Statistics Act 2000, the State Printing Act 1996, the Stock Corporation Tax Act 1996, the Fees Tax Act 1988, the Stability Tax Act 1994, the Federal Tax Code, the Federal Tax Code, the Health and Social Aid Act, the Law on the Enforcement of Justice, the Law on the Enforcement of Justice, the Law on the Enforcement of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (126, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (131 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (101 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Basic Tax Act 1987 (132 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8171	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There has been no oral reporting on agenda items 1 and 3. I call on the rapporteur, Mr Krainer, to present a print error correction to the item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8195	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: “There is a missing 1 billion”!]] “I bring the following print error correction to the government template (126 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology: According to the title of the Government template, the phrase ‘The National Council has decided to insert’. So “The National Council has decided.” This part is missing in the government template and is to be inserted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8237	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this correction. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8264	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Tax payers! In principle, we welcome the amendment to the Basic Income Tax Act, which ensures an easy-to-understand and administrative economic nature of the determination of the basis of assessment and deduction of the tax. However, there is still considerable need for improvement in some areas of the Basic Income Tax Act. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I now have the opportunity to explain the proposal in its broad outlines. The Basic Income Tax Act provides for an amount free of charge for the acquisition of land in connection with operational transfers. The main application case for this allowance is the retirement of the farmer and the donation of the holding to the child. If a single company is given, the free amount is applicable for the property. However, if all shares in a GmbH are donated to the child, the amount of the allowance is not applicable. This different treatment is a factually unwarranted differentiation and constitutes a discrimination against the legal form of the GmbH vis-à-vis the individual company. The purpose of this proposal is to eliminate this inequality. The operating transfer allowance was originally introduced in 2000 with 5 million schillings and is still 365 000 € today. An adjustment of this amount is therefore long overdue and is to be made to at least €500 000. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This appears to be justified insofar as real estate prices have increased considerably in recent years. There is also a request in this respect. With regard to the meaningful link between the acquisition of property tax law and the Law on Court Fees, in short: I would also like to point out, in the sense of an administrative economy, that GGG, where the registration fee is regulated: The GGG favours essential social transactions, i.e. business and re-establishment operations, which are not subject to the Basic Income Tax Act. The aim should be to reorganise the business policy, in which the basic I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. A similarity between the Basic Tax Act and GGG in this area would also increase the attractiveness of the Austrian site. It simply makes sense and also serves the administrative economy if the exemption provisions and the basis of assessment for the acquisition of property tax and for the registration fee are identical. There is also a request in this respect. Unfortunately, we do not vote on a tax reform today, although taxpayers are moaning under a record burden. Austria has seen the highest increase in labour costs among monetary union countries, by 18.9% between 2008 and 2013 to an average of €31.4 per hour. However, the reason for this increase in labour costs is not the real wage increases, because net per capita income is unfortunately stagnating in total for 24 years. Inflation, higher taxes and taxes, in particular the cold progression, consumes the collective contractual salary adjustments year after year. ==References====External links== The tax increase entered into force on 1 March is taxed by local taxpayers at €1.2 billion a year. According to EUROSTAT, Austria now has a higher tax and tax rate than Sweden, known all over the world as a high-tax country, but twice as much government debt, and this, although government revenue is slumping as never before. The wage tax will already overtake the VAT as the most important source of income this year, because no tax increases as rapidly as the wage tax. If it was €24.8 billion in the previous year, it will already be €31.9 billion in 2018. One reason for this rise is the cold progression. In Austria, however, we pay not only too much taxes but also too much social taxes. By the way, social taxes are almost as high as the two highest income taxes, namely wage tax and VAT. But the trade unions and chambers don't like to talk about it. Trade unions and chambers should not only demand a loud tax reform, but also a reform of social taxes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No subject in the labour cost debate seems to be the inefficient and overbureaucratised social security system, not to mention the forced membership contributions for the Chambers of Workers and Economics, which make up €700 million per year in additional wage costs. But someone has to finance the 14 chambers with the more than 10,000 officials. For comparison: The Ministry of Finance is a model here; there are 11 000 employees, since 2000 by 6 000 less. The Chambers can take an example of this and go forward with a good example and make their contribution to a reduction in the cost of wages. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who today earns about € 2 000 gross a month, gets € 1 410 net transferred to the account. However, the employer must spend €2,625 a month, so that for the employee €1 410 remain net. In total, the state collects €1,215. The ratio is no longer right here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the Federal Government is still bickering with the fact that it has reduced the additional wage costs by 0.2 percentage points this year. The employer thus saves 20 € per employee per year. This reduction in additional pay costs is probably only possible with the pharmacist's weight. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government obviously lacks courage for a proper tax and structural reform. However, the Federal Government is motivated when it comes to the scrapping of the middle class. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Due to the non-adjustment of the progression stages, the Minister of Finance collected €2.24 billion in the previous year, this year it will be € 2.65 billion. This is a tax increase without Parliament's decision! Mr Vice-Chancellor, if you take something away, you have to give it back at the end of the day. There is no question of whether you can afford it or not. And if you take away billions of taxpayers over cold progression, you have to return the money to taxpayers at the end of the day. More fantasy-free is the SPÖ, which wants to relieve citizens of new taxes. We therefore call for a reduction in the rate of entry tax to 25 percent, a steady adjustment of the rate of progression to inflation, a reduction in social taxes and additional labour costs. More net of gross, but not new taxes, as the SPÖ sees fit, but a structural reform and a reduction in government expenditure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the 2014 budget accompanying law, no discharges are provided for for for the taxpayer, which is why we also refuse to accept this law. Mr Finanzminister! I ask you to give the taxpayer back what you are constantly taking away from him through the cold progression!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8426	The amendment tabled by Mr Fuchs is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The request was presented by the honourable Member in his broad outlines and will be duplicated and distributed in the hall because of its size. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8586	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8607	Mr President. With this budget, the Federal Government is continuing its successful budgetary policy in recent years. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] We know that, in European comparison, we are almost all key figures among the best countries in the European Union – with the lowest unemployment, with one of the highest growth rates. [[Abg. Rossmann: With a burden of the factor work, for example!]] Austria is one of the few countries that today, after the crisis, have more jobs than before the crisis. In almost all countries of the European Union today, there are fewer jobs than in 2008, 2009. Our approach is based on the facts, the figures being successful, and this path is to continue with this budget. We as the SPÖ Parliamentary Group support him here in this House anyway. The basic objective of the budget policy of recent years has always been to see that work and employment are at the forefront. And because of this, it has reasonably not only been saved, but also invested. We spend much more money on education than five years ago, much more money for infrastructure, much more money for research and development than before. In other words, investment will be made in future areas. In this budget too, there are again priorities, namely in the field of care, in the area of housing. There is also more money for the expansion of all day schools than was planned a year ago, namely, € 110 million this year instead of 80 million and 160 million next year instead of 80 million. In other words, this budget will also continue the path of investment. Of course, we also save where it makes sense, where it goes, in the administration. As an example, I mention the administrative reform in administrative jurisdiction. Over 100 special authorities were dissolved, and a new Federal Administrative Court was created. That means we're saving in the structure, saving in the administration. And – thirdly – we also see that we have a fairer distribution of the tax burden on the revenue side. In fact, over the last five years, in the last legislative period, we have reduced taxes and taxes on labour by €3 billion and at the same time increased taxes on assets and capital, or also introduced taxes, because we have this wrong situation, that taxes and taxes on labour are far too high and taxes on capital and assets are far too low. This path will also continue with this budget. If you look closely at this, you can see that there are a number of restrictions on group taxation, the indebtedness of manager salaries over €500 000 in the year et cetera. It is again some important things, not to forget the extension and the increase in the bank levy, because those who have benefited from the fact that the taxpayer saved banks, namely the banks, are also to pay for it. That is why there is also a bank levy and that is why it has also been increased because the cost of bank rescue is also higher. At the end of the day, banks should as far as possible pay the entire bill of bank rescue. You can also read this way in the budget. It is the right way that we also support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the issue of correspondence with the Commission and the current discussion on: Yes, the Commission does what it actually does every year, and it has worse forecast values than we do. But it turned out that reality was always better. The opposition also has much worse forecast values than the Federal Government. Almost every budget debate we hear: Budget lie, the deficit will be much higher than forecast, the budget is built on sand, the budget doesn't hold, these are wrong figures. – How does reality look? We can compare: What structural deficit has the European Commission always forecast and what has actually happened? In 2010, the European Commission forecast a negative 3.6 percent; at the end it was negative 3.2 percent, so better. In 2011, the Commission forecast a negative 3.2 percent; we were better by 1 percentage point, minus 2.2 percent. In 2012, it forecast negative 2.1 percent; and we had minus 1.6 percent. And for 2013 the Commission forecast: minus 1.6 percent; in reality, it was minus 1.1 percent. That is, we see that we are always better than the Commission's forecasts. And from this point of view you can also see this correspondence and the current discussion. At the end of the day, we will be better than the Commission is forecast. The data in recent years show that we have been better and better off in 2014 than the Commission is forecast today, and that is not bad either. One last aspect of the tax reform is that it has already been mentioned: Yes, the way to relieve the factor of work, that is to reduce taxes for those who go to work, must continue. We don't want tax reform on pump. We Social Democrats are saying that we still have this imbalance in the tax burden between labour and capital and wealth, that we want to relieve labour, because the tax will be reduced, but on the other hand we also want to make a fairer contribution to capital and assets than today. That is why we are proposing a tax reform which is not entirely financed, but also counter-financed by new taxes, such as a tax on millions of inheritances and million-dollar assets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8663	The next item is Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8684	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We have already experienced a great deal in terms of budgets, even in terms of budgets, when they are presented before elections and decided before elections. We have experienced a Finance Minister Josef Pröll, who has not presented a budget at all because of the Vienna elections. We have experienced a Fekter Minister of Finance who, before the National Council elections, reduced the cost of Hypo Alpe-Adria by € 133 million. We are now experiencing a budget 2014 – now the budget-accompanied laws are passed – which has nothing to do with reality either. And this pattern, always before elections, does not admit so-called readjustments and only after the election to tell the citizens the truth, do we not like the opposition and the Greens in this House anymore! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With all the criticism of the content, as the budget was presented, in the criticism that the wrong place is saved and shortened, in education, in science, in research, in the criticism of the total acceptance of the cost of Hypo Alpe-Adria, we had already had a positive point: We have identified a certain degree of seriality, greater transparency and greater honesty compared to finance ministers in front of Spindelegger. Unfortunately, we have to take this back to 100 percent today. There was a budget here in the House for weeks in all the detail, with all the experts from the outside, and in parallel a need for improvement in the order of € 1 billion was reported to the EU Commission. The budget that we have been presented here for decision-making is at the same time macular! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Kogler.]] We cannot let this happen as parliamentarians, therefore also the massive criticism of the opposition. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann speaks of a “luxus problem of up to 1 billion €”. The Minister of Finance is talking about so-called improvements. In the Committee, he said, at the first request of our colleague Bruno Rossmann, that certain improvements would still be made on administrative regulations. [[Abg. Wöginger: He's been talking to him for half an hour anyway!]] But under improvements due to administrative regulations, no one, certainly no one of you from the ÖVP, has introduced a package in the order of up to 1 billion €; if, then you would have been bright. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] He has not only de facto replaced us in this matter, but also his own Members! Again on chronology: They now accuse the opposition that it would misinformation the public. And that really hits the barrel out of the ground! We're going to document this again in all clarity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ==References== May comes the criticism of the Euro Group, will be public, on the Austrian budget draft. For the first time, Mr. Bruno Rossmann asked – on 8 October. May in the Committee. There is a small clue, under which you can imagine everything possible administrative possibilities, legal interpretations. [[State Secretary Danning: Were you there? Were you there?]] No trace, no speech of legislative changes, no trace of increases, no trace of cuts in discretion expenditure in the order of nearly € 350 million, no trace of this eight-point programme, which is notified to the EU Commission. Only then did it become public. On the website of the Ministry of Finance, it found a very, very hard-working MP just before midnight, as I got it. The next day it was handed over to the media. And only on the following day, when the matter was already publicly to be read on the Internet at "standard.at", the Finance Minister informed the Members of the Committee. But the SPÖ has even played a part in this by de facto asking a question that was served so that the Minister of Finance could do something he would have had to do from the outset, namely with transparency, openness and honesty, to make available to Parliament and thus to the public those measures reported in Brussels. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is a conspiracy theory! That's a mushroom theory!]] This is not from Peter Pilz, which comes from Bruno Rossmann, our budget speaker, to whom we owe that this has become public at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Content: We will use the next two days to question the individual ministers of expertise, because we want to know: What does a minister of education actually say about additional cuts in discretionary expenditure in the current budget year, this year? What does a Minister of Education say about the measures that have been discussed in Austria for €57 million? What does a minister of science say, in the area of education, science and research, about possible further cuts in discretionary expenditure? What does the people say about not getting a transparent and not an honest budget on the table before the election? What does the Foreign Minister, who is now appealing to the government, say that it should not be reduced in the area of development cooperation, so that additional cuts in discretionary expenditure are now needed? These are all highly relevant issues, and it is our duty as Members of Parliament, as Members of Parliament, to discuss them and to find alternatives to them. The programme, which has been notified in Brussels – I say it again: this is a scale of up to € 1 billion – makes the budget draft which you have presented for decision a maculature. And we won't accept that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will deal with you in the next few days. But we can go through the points again now! Increase in income taxes and social security contributions. I emphasize: More revenue! We all assumed that discharges will come in the coming years. With this item “Multi-income” you have fulfilled the record of the budget lie to a hundred percent. You can now estimate the more revenue that you could estimate two weeks ago, which you could also estimate four weeks ago – all at a time when Parliament and the public could be informed! The prevention of double promotion can also be found in this package. I mean, there are only two variants: Either one wanted to send a letter of comfort to the EU Commission, a letter of objection, and it's all irrelevant anyway. The EU Commission will then be called upon to do so. Or you really have a lot to do with this and you didn't want to tell it before the choice of the population. There are only these two variants, there are no third ones. Ladies and gentlemen, you already have to decide, even as club members of the parliamentary parties, which is actually under the spell here. We want to discuss this seriously. This is our job as a Member of Parliament, that is our job, and we are doing this in the interest and in the sense of the Austrian people, who once again – and the truth is reasonable to her – deserved the truth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So: We will ask each minister what this package actually means. It is the year 2014 that is the year this year, where this magnitude is being discussed. And: I would have liked to ask a very simple question to the Minister for Finance, who is still not there, who only publicly judges us, that we would misinformation the public. [[Abg. Brosz: If he was here!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, where is he?]] That's just wrong! So I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance the following simple question: Why was it not possible to discuss this programme, which was notified to the EU Commission, very easily in the budget, where one could have seen: Are there alternatives to doing all of this in transparency? You know that the constitutional requirements require the Minister of Finance to present the budgetary situation as faithfully as possible. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] But that was once again ignored – once again before one election day!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8842	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig, you know, if you are talking about lies the way you always do, and if you want to ignore what Mr Finanzminister has already said on 8 May. Unfortunately, I cannot help you. [[Abg. Kogler: Budget lie!]] On this occasion I would like to thank very much, very much, the budget service, because the budget service has taken note of what Mr Finanzminister said on 8 July. At the meeting of the Budgetary Hearing in May. He mentioned at the time that the Federal Financial Framework Act does not require any changes, but that further adjustments are made outside the budget by the regulatory procedure and that scope needs to be created. [[Abg. Kogler: This is not a means of regulation!]] He also spoke about measures to combat tax fraud. We all know that in recent years, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the results of the federal accounts are better than we had in the Federal estimates, for example, deficit ratios. [[Abg. Kogler: That has nothing to do with it!]] Mr Kogler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kogler.]] That is to say, the Minister of Finance has not told you anything at all. You've made an intermediate call to Mrs. Glavischnig before. [[Abg. Kogler: All right!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The Minister of Finance has already done this on 25 July. ==References====External links== When he spoke of an EU lie, he said he expected us to get one. You also know very well that the European Commission has assumed that we should already have a balanced budget in 2015. And we said we will have a balanced budget in 2016. And we agreed that we want to do this. [[Abg. Kogler: The letter refers to 2014!]] The letter refers to 2014. Of course! But I would like to tell you, Mrs Glavischnig, that you always believe that we had not debated enough in the Committee on Budgets: I have held the Presidency myself for two and a half days, and I have not seen you there at all, you have not taken part in the debates at all. [[Abg. Kogler: You have debated the wrong thing! You've put in a wrong budget!]] Even your colleague Schmid posted on Facebook from the Committee and did not even take part in the debate. So if this means a serious debate in a committee for you, I can only say: We have a serious debate, we do not want this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And to the exhilaration that the letter or proposals of Mr Finanzminister to the European Commission from the newspaper had been heard: ==References====External links== In the “parliamentary correspondence” in May, it is clear that Minister Spindelegger has carried out informing Brussels about the budget accompanying law we have here today for the decision-making, Mrs Glawischnig – or have you forgotten it?! – on anti-fraud measures, on better social security receipts through increasing employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek]] [[Abg. Kogler: It's nowhere! This is the lie!]] What do you mean, that's nowhere? This was in the "parliamentary correspondence". The Minister for Finance said it in the committee, Mr Kogler! And if you can't listen, I'm sorry. But you can't always spread sand into the eyes of the population! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] [[Abg. Kogler: It's not in the law!]] If you speak of falsehood, you always have to consider the consequences of speaking the untruth yourself! I would also like to say something to Mr Strolz, who is not here now. And that's... If Mr Strolz says that if the budget is not postponed, but if we vote on it on Friday, he will go out here with his group, then I would like to tell the Council that he should read the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. In fact, there is § 11 para. 1, which states that participation in national Council meetings is mandatory. If this is your kind of responsibility for the population, I must tell you quite honestly, then you have signed out as a people's representative! Because constantly declaring the reputation for protest is not worthy of a politician of this House. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, I would like to express my warmest thanks to the experts in the budget hearing who have really argued in a clear way and in contrast to the political groups of which they have been nominated, such as Dr Loretz, who does not like the insolvency of the hypo, while the liberals always do so. I would also like to express my express thanks to Mr Dr. Berger, who has not only attended the budget service all the time, but also served all the political groups here in the house. I am also grateful to the staff members of the clubs and to the constructive discussrs in the committee. Many of us and many of the opposition have been very constructive in the debates. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, who make such a committee and as long as possible discussions possible only because Members are also served accordingly. And your opinion, Mrs Glawischnig, that this was a debate that was supposedly not detailed enough where there were more than 2,000 written questions, I cannot agree honestly at all. [[Abg. Kogler: Completely, but wrong!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9122	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9143	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear Members of the House who are beginning to listen to me! [[Abg. Lopatka: On the matter, please!]] On the matter: Real estate tax. – I take the liberty to praise this federal government for it at first – Look, you have such a flaw for self- praise anyway, now you shouldn’t have clap like that! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Lopatka.]] This federal government has resisted the temptation to substantially change or increase the acquisition tax, but it has left the percentage the same level and has provided a simple method of collection. As a lawyer, I am also a functional financial office, among other things, because I charge this basic acquisition tax for my clients and I take it to the financial office. And there is one of the very essential things that this tax is easy to calculate. This 3.5 percent of the purchase price or of the triple unit value is a simple and good method of calculation. Now, if we come back to the fact that the 1.1 percent admission fee can be lifted and discharged together, this is in line with an old regulation that has once proved successful. It has been abandoned from a somewhat strange competitive thinking between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and is now being applied again. Simplicity – especially important! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] From my experience I know that I also have to install the real estate income tax. And as soon as it comes to an extension here, for example, it is extremely difficult to calculate this. And that is why I know very well what I am talking about when I say it is important to keep the collection of basic income tax on a simple basis. I therefore welcome the fact that the government has found this solution here. Imagine that at the real estate tax I would report something else to the financial office each month. What would they think of me? That would, as it were, be an invitation to the examination. But if the government first speaks of a budget hole and then writes a letter to Brussels that everything is quite different, then different rules apply here. We as taxpayers must be reliable – and in reality that must be the government! And there, I have to say, I really do miss the fact that in the middle of the budget process, we suddenly get quite different numbers. If I said, I think it's good of the government that she did this, then I also have to say: No praise without blame! For example: Capital tax, which has been addressed here and which could also have been hidden. Mr Krainer also argued in this direction and meant that we would not have introduced all the additional taxes in the last legislative period and in which way we would like to proceed here. Ladies and gentlemen, the reduction in wealth taxation cannot really be the target in this country! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Well, yes!]] Wait! I'm coming to you, Mr. Schieder. We have two major companies that have gone abroad. One is the BAWAG, which will certainly tell you something, and the other is the Telekom that went into foreign hands. I would be much better if an Austrian fund had the same money to buy this bank or Deutsche Telekom. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I'll give you the way: Consider whether it would not be better to think not of the reduction in wealth, but of the building up of wealth in this country, of the building up of assets in private hands, since something has to be done as well as tax-related things to do, for example through Kest exemptions that exist in other countries, so that Austria can set up a fund where we can participate in these companies. [[Abg. Arbitrators: For everyone!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: For everyone!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Their policy has led companies such as BAWAG or Telekom to come into foreign hands now. The right policy is not the reduction of wealth, but the building of wealth! [[New condolences with the Stronach team.]] Behind all this philosophy is the instrumentalization of envy, ladies and gentlemen! This is a professional disease of politicians. People are not as jealous with God as you believe. If you look at Atletico Madrid against Real Madrid on Saturday, where 22 rich play in front of 100,000 poor, I ask you: Do you think they are jealous of what the Lord Messi deserves?- Oh, my God! No human is envious of what they deserve. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr. Messi is not playing there!]] Yeah, he's not playing on Saturday. But there are also others who play. I know. I could also mention a few who play and who deserve similarly well. The message is: People are not as preoccupied with God as politics does. And that's why my appeal is: Don't give up the loss of wealth! See that there can be a proper wealth building in this country – also for the benefit of this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9275	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Vetter, the people may not be jealous, I believe you are, but people have a healthy sense of justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we know that every survey says that the winners of crises are the wealth, not only in Austria, but everywhere, that the assets have increased exponentially during the crisis, then we must say: Mr and Mrs Österreicher have a good sense of who should pay his fair share of what Austria is doing. And that is what the rich are! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Stronach team.]] I would like to use my speech on today's budget-accompanied law debate to address the issue of health policy and administrative simplification, not from the point of view of health, but from the point of view of the social sector. Today in the early days, many criticisms have been made that health care is very fragmented, that it is federally structured and that the federal government has relatively few competences. This has been the case in the social sphere, and the Rudi Hundstorfer has succeeded as a minister, but also this Federal Government, which has been significantly behind it in recent years. What was the starting point? – Let’s look at the care money debate, for example! In the field of care, it was so that the care industry was completely fragmented, i.e., the competences were in the federal, state and local authorities. There have been 303 decision-makers in this country who have carried out various types of classifications that have affected the care allowance. Not least, and not wrongfully, that was criticised by the Court of Auditors, some of which – this time also related to the health debate – also referred to these inequalities in the health system. What did Rudi do torfer? – He has managed to bring down from 22 or 21 decision-makers in Austria to five. He managed to reduce the care allowance procedure clearly. Required were under 60 days, we were partly at over 90 days, and we are currently at a stand of 54 days. That is to say, recommendations from the Court of Auditors have already been implemented in the last period, last year, and now it continues. This time the Budgetary Support Act may be a very small simplification, but something that will make it easier for people who receive care benefits to get up to the appropriate level. This again means an administrative simplification where one looks at the money coming where it is needed, namely to the people. In the next few years, €2.5 billion will be given to 450 000 care professionals in Austria, without much red tape and with a clear simplification. Therefore, thanks to Rudi Hundstorfer and his team, they have already implemented the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the end of my speech, I would like to make another request, namely the amendment tabled by Mr Gabriele Tamandl, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on the government template for the 2014 budget. This request is distributed because of its size, and I am therefore only allowed to explain it in its basics. There will be a change in the Federal Statistical Act, where redundancies will be corrected. Within the framework of the Scheidemünzengesetz, the provisions and reserves are re-regulated. In the context of the Export Funding Act, a calculation of the settlement time point will be made on the 1st. January 2015 changed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9394	The amendment tabled by Mrs Oberhauser and explained in the broad guidelines is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9555	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9578	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! I would also like to begin my speech with a praise, not for the Federal Government, but for Mr Rossmann, who, as an old budget fox, found this letter hidden on the homepage relatively quickly. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: On the homepage “hidden”?]] This letter from Minister of Finance Spindelegger to the Commission is also a symbol: It is a symbol of dishonesty in this budget discussion. It's a symbol of transparency. And it's once again a symbol for tarps and tricks. Let's remember: Why do we even discuss the 2014 budget now? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Because the Federal Government has failed to comply with its constitutional task of presenting a draft budget at least ten weeks before the end of the year. [[Call at the SPÖ: We had a choice!]] Why didn't you follow that? Why did the government fail to comply with this? – Because we had a National Council election because you didn't dare put the numbers on the table! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] All of a sudden, after the National Council election, there was the big budget hole. All of a sudden, the numbers are on the table, and everyone has wondered. [[Abg. Krainer:... there was none at all!]] Now you do the same, and this letter is a symbol for it. A budget is already being presented too late, but now there is also a budget that is wrong! The Members of Parliament, the representatives of the citizens for days and weeks here in the house, are allowed to discuss a budget of which the Federal Government knows that the draft is wrong from the outset, because it is not realistic. But let us look at these so-called new measures, which do not make up a small matter: It's supposed to be a whole billion! In any case, it should be noted that: Once again, as in the entire budget, no structural reforms are recognizable. What is recognizable is that once again the control screw is turned. Now we can discuss whether this tax is useful if, so to speak, another report is made in the case of audits. But one thing is clear: The imagination of this federal government is always limited to taxes! To always only new taxes and always only to increase taxes. [[Abg. Arbitrators:... you still want to defend, don't you?]] The imagination also extends to extremely positive assumptions. Now more revenue of € 300 million is expected to come in at once. That's where you're wondering: Where are they supposed to come from? – Because the assumption, namely a 1.7 percent growth based on this budget, was already very optimistic. The WIFO forecast from the first quarter, which has recorded only 0.3 percent growth – so to speak, a rounding error – shows that this growth rate is not very realistic. Now you think you can get another €300 million. For pensions, we have the next unrealistic assumption. The budget service of our house says that 3.6 billion is the minus compared to the budget estimate/financial framework by 2018, no, not to anyone, compared to the pension commission of this Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this letter is a confirmation that the Federal Government itself knows that this budget 2014 and the financial framework is built on sand by 2018! [[Abg. Eßl: We will be better!]] This has not been known since yesterday, it has been known for weeks that the EU Commission is going to discard this budget of the Federal Government. You know that. But why didn't they do it again? Why were you not open and honest again? – Because elections are at the door again: this Sunday European elections. You thought you could hold back the true facts until the election was over! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Absurd!]] This is the old-known principle: Tarn and deceive! I say to you that this House will be, this Parliament will be, these Members, at least those of the opposition, and this will not please the citizens of this country! ‘Legal budget’ is on the agenda. But let us look at what accompanying laws we have in this draft and what accompanying laws we need. The topic of promotions is also addressed in this ominous letter. For the x-th time it is postulated that we are now dealing with the double promotions. We also discussed this in the committees. I asked Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, for example, why she still has a federal funding in an area where the country is competent. That's what she said – that's the typical killing argument: Because the thing is good, and then it's good if all sides promote. She said, then four-fold and five-fold promotions can be nothing bad. But that is exactly the problem: the lack of understanding of what this is all about! If you have two, three, four, five promotions, then you need as many officials as you do, just as much bureaucracy in order to handle these promotions at all. The consequence, of course, is that the thing that can be good does not do anything good, but that ultimately less money will remain, either for the thing, or it will remain little for the taxpayer. But this system of high taxes and high subsidies is exactly that, namely a system. It is a systematic approach to high taxes and high promotions to push taxes ever further up, to push the promotions ever further up with the one aim of keeping power in hand and keeping citizens on the short line. Federalism: There would have been also a budget accompanying law quite exciting. “Federalism reform” is actually the wrong term, because it would require that we have such a thing as federalism. But we don't have in this country! For example, federalism would mean that we have strong communities. We didn't! We also have communities, which are kept on the short line, as well as the citizens in this country, by the so-called needs allocations. There is no autonomous community budget. Anyone who can follow this in community policy knows it. [[Abg. Obernoster: But you don't know exactly!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: This is different in every federal country!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It is not even necessary to be in municipal politics, as every parish citizen knows how the communities in this country are kept on the short line through the allocation of needs. If you do as the national leaders want, you get one, and if you don't, you won't get one. This is a system in this country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Participant support: I read in these budget accompanying laws that the funds for the party academies are reduced. Well, you can talk about it. We NEOS have always said that the parties are too generously equipped. But why you want to shorten especially with the academies, which at least in the approach can make something meaningful by making basic work, scientific work at least, I don't understand. There is nothing to be seen where you can cut right into, namely with the parties, with the classic promotion of the party. There, fat party devices and large-area posters are promoted. What you really need in this budget as a budget accompanying law would be, for example, the abolition of cold progression. Because this is not in these budget accompanying laws, we will make NEOS our own request today. Unfortunately, we have it very late on the agenda today, so, valued citizens, you have to stay for a long time to see that, so I would like to announce it now: Today, we have the first reading on our legislative/own-initiative proposal for the abolition of cold progression, in other words, to abolish the permanent tax increase in this country without Parliament's decision, to abolish the fact that citizens in that country are always deceived by the fact that there is more on the wage mark and less remains in the wallet. This cannot go on, this unfrozenness, constantly perceiving people, that they deserve more, although in reality they are less and less left. That's over! And we're doing that with our request today. That would also be good for this budget, I have to say, unfortunately, good for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9747	Mr Ostermayer spoke next. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9768	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that Mr Hable did not say critically that last autumn elections took place. That is the essence of democracy. But in one point I'm right: If we had already made the budget in autumn, because it would have been a year other than an election year, then we would not have had the debate that has now taken place, namely on a letter from the Minister of Finance to the European Commission. For a simple reason: because the Commission assumed at that time that we had 1.6% structural deficit, and if we had been on our way where we now assumed that we had 1.0% structural deficit with the 2014 budget, there would have been no issue because we would have gone down the path to the bottom to a sufficiently strong extent. In fact, something has happened in the meantime, because there is the billing for 2013. Although, among other things, the Commission assumed that the structural deficit in 2013 would be 1.6 percent, we landed at 1.1 percent, much better, by 0.5 percent better – that is about €1.6 billion – than was adopted in October! If Mr Kogler now says that the budget is wrong, I would like to oppose him very clearly, for a very simple reason: Whether a budget corresponds to reality or not, we always know only in retrospect, namely in the financial statements. [[Abg. Kogler: Measured by what you write to Brussels!]] We can only create a budget based on assumptions. [[Abg. Kogler: But you send different numbers to Brussels than here!]] The assumptions are, for example, the question of economic growth, how does employment develop, and so on. If you read through exactly what the Commission has said, then page 3 says that Austria has corrected its excessive deficit in 2009, out of the financial crisis, in a sustainable way, so to speak, we will get out of the excessive deficit procedure. [[Abg. Kogler: 130 million...!]] Then one can read that it is essentially about different macroeconomic scenarios, between the Commission’s macroeconomic scenario and the macroeconomic scenario and the economic research institute’s forecast. The difference – and this is worth reading more precisely – is in fact the difference between what is believed to be economic growth – for 2014 and 2015, as there are essentially coverage equality, i.e. similar projections, as is stated in the letter. The Commission is of the opinion that in the area of entrepreneurs and consumer confidence and the resulting internal demand it is not so strongly reflected and that the external contribution, i.e. the export contribution, is more pronounced. From this point of view – and this is different from the adoption of the Economic Research Institute – there are different assessments. Our assessment is that we can expect or expect a structural deficit of 1.0 percent. The Commission expects 1.2 percent. This 0.2 percent is derived from what the Commission meant, and it is still necessary to re-adjust. [[Abg. Kogler: Then we write the 300 million more into the approach!]] We have also adopted the 300 million additional revenue resulting from the almost 30 000 additional employees. [[Abg. Kogler: Then the budget number is wrong!]] This was also mentioned in the letter of Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance. There have been some points where you simply have new estimates. Now we have four months behind us, the four months give rise to new estimates. When in October... [[Abg. Rossmann:... make other estimates! That's a joke, Mr. Minister. That's a joke!]] No, Mr Rossmann! If the Commission still expects 1.6% in October 2013, and we land by 0.5 percent better, you have to admit that there can be some change in the estimates of the Ministry of Finance within four months. [[Abg. Rossmann: We're talking about 29. April!]] I would just like to point out: For four years now, the European Commission's spring forecasts have been on the structural deficit. If we compare this with the result that the European Commission has subsequently found, we have been right in all four years and not the Commission. Mr Krainer has already said that 2010 was estimated to be minus 3.6 percent; we had minus 3.2 percent. 2011: minus 3.2 percent estimated; we had 2.2 percent. 2012: minus 2.1 percent estimated; we had 1.6%. Now, 2013 – I have already said it – 1.6 percent have been estimated, and we have landed at 1.1 percent. That is, we have differences between 0.4 per cent and 1 per cent of GDP! No one can now say how the year is going to end exactly. But we've done all this carefully. We have discussed in depth from October onwards and have come to this conclusion. We believe in it, too. Nevertheless, this letter has been written to the Commission, so to speak, so to speak, to clarify it there. We have chosen a way that has been different from many other countries. We have said that we want to consolidate, but also invest. On the one hand, consolidation measures are within this budget and the Federal Financial Framework by 2018 and on the other hand investment measures are also inside. We discussed this on the basis of the example of education, even yesterday in the Constitutional Committee, where it was said to have been shortened. In fact, instead of € 80 million, we have € 110 million, which we want to invest in the expansion of the whole day school in this year. In the following years, it is €160 million, plus another €50 million in 2018 on top of it. So we have chosen another way, and the other way has led us to strengthen that we are better off getting through the crisis more successfully. We also assume that we are getting out of the crisis better and more successful compared to other countries. We have the lowest unemployment. We have interest rates for government bonds that are as low as ever. That is to say, the financial market players, investors, the people who make money, trust this country, otherwise they would not provide money at such favourable interest rates and at the lowest interest we have ever paid. I think it was 1.66 percent two weeks ago. In a long time, we have always calculated 4 to 5 percent interest rates and are now so far below. That is why we are constantly solving these discussions, which are taking place here – I mean now, not only here in the House – but also surprise in other countries, in other countries, in other people who are wondering what problems are being discussed here. That is not to say that we have no problems that we do not have great tasks ahead of us. Today, we have taken a number of decisions in the Council of Ministers on tasks and deregulation reforms and measures. But all in all, it's not wise to say bad things about this country. On the contrary, this country needs additional optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9890	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9948	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Yeah, you could start with a movie hit: Every year, the opposition greets. You've always spoken badly of the budget. That was the case in the past, and it is so this year too. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Wait until you are in opposition!]] However, the reality, ladies and gentlemen, looks different. If you look at the figures in recent years – and Mr Ostermayer has just confirmed that the Finance Ministers have done an excellent job – the budgets were clearly worse than the results. All of us who have to do with budgetary policy know that a budget is once a proposal and that it is only then that we see how each action takes place each year. We were always very good on the road. There are quite clear figures, and the figures speak very clearly for us. And if I say today that this budget also creates scope for the economy, then we have put in place the right measures, because it is only entrepreneurs who create jobs. Thank you for this, because 30 000 new jobs are important. That's why we're on an excellent path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also put in place measures – Mr Fuchs has done this – which may not yet be in the order of magnitude that we all imagine, but there are steps in the right direction once. We have reversed the extra wage costs: It's not going up once, it's going down. We have a continuation of the promotion of apprenticeship training. We have an internationalization offensive. We have the craftsman bonus and we invest in housing. These are measures that support companies on the one hand, but that also ensure jobs. And we have a new system of income tax, which is very important, which is very important for the site, for business transfers in Austria and, above all, for the continuation of our traditional family business, combined with all the jobs in these companies. If I imagine that in the next ten years 58 000 companies are on hand and two thirds of them are family businesses, then we have taken the right action. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr State Secretary, I would also like to thank you very much for your commitment, because it is a measure that is very important for entrepreneurs and therefore for jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The small and medium-sized enterprises now employ two million people in this country and are thus the largest employer, and those who would also tax domestic companies by means of new or higher taxes would be at risk of jobs and the location. That is why this measure is so correct. If you look at this whole show today, there is just that, because many want to distract, distract from their vision of Europe, which is actually a zigzag course, as you have heard today. In this context, I have to address the positions of NEOS, because if you want Russia in the EU to privatise water supply, if you want to have a pan-European army, and if you don't want to get out of Europe's policy, you're just going to organise a spectacle like that. [[Abg. Stroll holds a table with the inscription “Do not vote! ”]] That is why it would be good if the actors went on stage and the politicians went to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10003	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10025	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. [[Abg. Heinzl: Why does it suddenly become so dark?]] Unfortunately, Mr Ostermayer is no longer present. If you listen to his words, you could believe that milk and honey flow in this country and everything is in order. I wonder why the Swedish have overtaken us by having less tax burden now than we do. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] According to OECD, this is the case. – I know, Professor Krainer, you always know everything better, but OECD figures show otherwise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're stuck in a progression trap, even that's obvious, and it's not to be denied that people's incomes are getting less and less and the purchasing power is falling. One proof of this is that income from the wage tax is now more than revenue from the VAT. These are indeed alarm signs that we think we should discuss very well. Of course, the question arises whether to debate the budget accompanying law today or tomorrow about the budget at all, because after the letter we received from the EU, and the answer given, one could say that the whole budget is only more macro-economic and that everything starts from the beginning. 1 billion € savings means a decisive cut. I've dealt with the individual points. I don't know if the time's going to be enough today, or I'll just go in on it tomorrow. In all cases: 1 billion € is still in the letter of the Minister of Finance. Then it is relativized to 600 million €. Now in the pre-election period – we have an EU election in the near future – we want to act as model students towards the EU and present ourselves in the same way. At home, then, the primacy of inactivity and inability to reform is more important, and that is exactly what our Federal Government is doing at present. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Accordingly, in a few areas, there are allegations of the EU against us. If we look at the structural deficit, I am even right for the Federal Minister, because the EU originally predicted 1.6% structural deficit, and then we went down to 1.1 percent. However, according to the budget, we continue to pick up on this 1% and are very far away from the 0.45 percent required by the EU for 2015, and this is also a problem that must be considered. I do not now see this successful path; see this letter from Brussels, which is quite different. ==References== In May, Brussels clearly re-emphasised this. I can quote a paragraph from the letter. In my view, this is quite an alarm mark, even if it was formulated very carefully by Brussels. That's where they write – I quote –: ‘However, on the basis of its spring 2014 forecast and its assessment of the additional measures, the Commission concludes that the risk of non-compliance with the requirements of the preventive component of the Stability and Growth Pact is continuing in 2014. The Commission therefore calls on the Austrian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure full compliance with the preventive component of the Pact in 2014 and in addition.” This is a proper threat, ladies and gentlemen. So so much milk and honey don't flow in our country. However, I would now like to refer to the budget accompanying legislation. Some of these people also agree with us, such as the Basic Income Tax Act, but there are quite some suggestions for improvement. I therefore propose the following amendment by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs and other delegates to the 2014 Budgetary Accompaniment Act: ==References====External links== Decisions to be taken by the European Parliament and the Council on the proposal from the Commission to The 2014 Budgetary Accompanying Act, 53 d.b., is amended as follows: “1. In Article 15, the new point 1 is inserted: 1. § 9 is amended as follows: Abs. 2. ‘2. Government members (as participating entities or as participating domestic entities) may be: unlimited taxable capital companies and...’.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10082	Deputies, excuse me! It would have to be called group members, not government members.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10097	I'm correcting! Of course! ‘(2) Group members (as participating entities or as participating domestic entities) may be: unlimited taxable capital companies and labour and economic cooperatives, as set out in Section 7 para. 3 cases, comparable non-restricted taxable entities which are established in a Member State of the European Union or in a State of the European Economic Area and which are financially linked exclusively to unlimited group members or groups (Abs. 4). [[Abg. Auer: Well, if you have a president of the same group!]] Group members may not be members of a participating community.’ 2. In Article 15, the previous amendment order relating to § 11 is given in point 2. 3rd. In Article 19, paragraphs 3 and 4 are replaced by the following:’; So much for my amendment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by thanking very much for the budget service, which really informs us with material, which is sometimes also critical, because it is important for us that, in addition to the budget figures, we experience the corresponding changes and all that is behind them, and the budget service is more than necessary. This is a very sensible establishment. That is why I say only one, ladies and gentlemen, because we will now deal with this budget for three days only: We finally have to go into the structures, we finally have to break taboos, because only then can we secure the future of our voters, the future of our taxpayers and our people. One thing has to be clear: People again need more money in their pockets so that they can live independently and are not dependent on transfers.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10139	The application submitted is sufficiently supported and therefore properly submitted and under negotiation. [[Abg. Jarolim: (in the direction of the Abg. Podgorschek) You could also have thanked for the correction!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10274	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10296	Ladies and gentlemen, what I am missing is the tabling of words by the members of the opposition with the taboo proposals, in which we say in detail, where and in which area we call precisely the areas in which we are saving ourselves, or how we can imagine in addition what measures we are proposing in this regard. [[Abg. Podgorschek: There is more than enough of it!]] Then the discussion starts first. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Read our motions for resolutions!]] So far, this is just an exchange of clichés. And what you've been saying so far about some number mystics, with that, the normal, average audiences, listeners and listeners can't begin anything. That is totally pointless! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is something I would like to criticize already in the context of our having the debate here. And then just to say that one should finally put in place savings measures – but every time that the attempt at a debate on individual savings measures comes somewhere from the government, say no: No, not there and not there and not there. [[Abg. Podgorschek: There is none that would go into the structure! Show me that!]] A government must always be concrete, government is concrete, but doesn't have to be a permanent opposition? Where's that written? That's actually not really helpful. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is quite different with the lectures of Professor Krainer at the Renner Institute!]] And then to say: Unfortunately, we are a minority and do not have the rights of a majority. That means you don't even know how the voters and voters have decided, but that's something else. The accusation of transparency or transparency does not fit quite well, because Mr Rossmann simply puts himself in front of his device and fishes out the letter and – Zack – knows it. So it's not that way again that everything would be so intrusive. I wanted to talk first and foremost about the promotion of the press, but I would like to give a final thought to the budget debate. This is not about the budget of a traffic: Five cigarettes inside, five cigarettes out. The budget debate will be held in part. Today's state budgets are highly dependent: on economic developments, on growth prospects, on forecasts that are voting or not voting. There are so many factors, global interrelationships, membership of the European Union and the markets that exist. That should be taken into account! There, feasibility fantasies are being developed, ways of action that are not present. On the level you can't discuss, that's pointless. So I wanted to make an appeal to the opposition, to put them together again – we have three days before us anyway – and then maybe we could discuss the whole thing a little better. At least the person sitting in front of the TV would have something of it. We already know the arguments anyway, but those and those who had some of them. Press promotion, publicity promotion – you see, it is also shortened here. You also know the argument why this is so. I am nevertheless concerned to note that even this time the ORF does not receive the refunding of the fees, even for the reason that it had to come out of the budget, even though it has been promised for many years and decades and would also be necessary. At least one should be considered because there is also a movement of Austrian artists, filmmakers and so on and the ORF under the existing management is currently in one of the most successful phases in the history of the ORF. He co-financed films that got the Oscar. Oscars – you already have to talk about it in the majority –, Golden palm trees in Cannes, Awards there and there, so there will be continuous awards. This also benefits Austria, which benefits our cultural identity. This does not only benefit public-law broadcasting and the directly involved artists and artists, but it shows a very large range. And now being the first one at the Song Contest is not a thing. I mean, you have to make that clear, because that's a great achievement anyway. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That was not the government!]] You should think – why this unrest suddenly in there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] What do you want? You there? They should only be happy and nothing else, because this in turn gives us the opportunity to advertise here for Austria in a year. When this becomes a great event, a great event, the retour profitability, economic, cultural, for tourism and so on and so on. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What can a minimum pensioner buy from it?]] And that is why we should consider that we are of course helping to ensure that the ORF really brings together a successful event there, and also considering whether one may not be able to move into new business areas, for example, in the social networks, so that new revenues are possible there, so that one can participate even more in successful films and art initiatives, and thus also have the opportunity to set up such an event as in a year. 150 million, 300 million are watching. That's not a small thing! It's a world event! Col. Rosenkranz! You're making the finale of the Patriot Tour right now. I looked at that on the poster and I thought: “Patriot tour” – what is that term? Now you're just unpatriotic, because I'm telling you: Now it would be time for one to be proud of Austria that we are proud of the successes that the Austrian brand from Hollywood to Copenhagen is positive everywhere. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: There is very successful folk music!]] But not only can you be yodelled, but you can also do something different and once try to get into this field. And that, I think, would be true patriotism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Maybe you'll invite Conchita to the final of your Patriot tour? That would be a possibility! Then at least you would have people there, and you could shine beyond your own frame. That would be a possibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10432	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10482	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Cap, hear now You know, now I'm going to be concrete, because you always say the opposition is just against everything, and that's not true. I will start with the acquisition tax, because today you have a unique opportunity to vote against this amendment of the acquisition tax, Mr Cap and all the Members of your group. However, you also have the opportunity to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution which I shall put forward in the direction of a reduction in wage and income tax, as agreed in the Government Convention. We'll see if you take this chance or not. I'm afraid, no! Mr Katzian from your ranks has meant that the government will have a lot of fun with him. Well, the fun could start today, but let's take a look at this: What does the reform of the acquisition tax bring? – The reform of the acquisition tax leads to a Murks like the official's draft. It continues to build on outdated unit values in the case of gifts and in the case of inheritances. This has been criticized by renowned constitutional lawyers of our country, including Werner Doralt, even by the Constitutional Service. And what does the government now present to us for a government proposal? – Again, one that builds on outdated unit values from 1973. This is a draft that is highly likely to be unconstitutional. In this connection, to speak of tax justice, as Mr Krainer has done, it can only be a pang. If you, Mr Krainer, demand a property tax – he is no longer in the hall at all – then you must also be able to say how you want to do it. [[Abg. Krainer: He doesn't see me despite glasses!]] I imagine that instead of this reform of the basic income tax, we are making a reform of the inheritance and gift tax, which can finance substantial parts of the reduction in wage and income tax that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are demanding, but also you, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP. Just do it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this context, I put forward the following motion for a resolution by Mr Rossmann and Mr Kogler: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Finance, is invited to submit a legislative proposal for a reformed inheritance and gift tax to the National Council by the end of September 2014 to finance the announced reduction in the income tax rate in the direction of 25%." If you do this relief of the rate, you will trigger substantial growth and employment impulses and will be able to fully save substantial parts of your savings package, including those measures contained in the famous letter containing €700 million in structural measures and €300 million in additional revenue thanks to an improved economy. But, Mr Federal Minister, if you want to tell me here that the economic situation between the presentation of the budget on 29 October is going on. ==References====External links== May has changed so much that now, suddenly, €300 million more can be saved, then that's a good joke – at best. Mr Federal Minister, I am sorry, but more revenue from the economic improvement is unfortunately not structural measures. The letter from Commissioner Kallas expressly states this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us now come to what Mr Spindelegger has given us today through the media: The budget figures are correct, and he's got us all on the 8th. In May the Committee on Budgetary Control discussed in detail in the expert hearing. The budget figures are precisely not correct, because they contain a structural deficit of 1 percent for 2014. Minister Spindelegger knew very well that this would not be in line with the European Commission's requirements. If one comes out of the excessive deficit and the procedure, then the Committee with the European Commission foresees a reduction in the structural deficit of at least 0.5 percent. We're miles away from that. Therefore, and precisely for this reason, Finance Minister Spindelegger wrote this letter with the eight measures. Mr Kal-las accepted €700 million of this as the structural deficit. And what does this letter say inside? - I'm translating now, free to Rossmann: With these structural measures – that is, €700 million – there is no significant deviation from the budget path to achieve the structurally balanced budget. But, of course, he calls for these 700 million to be implemented, and he also speaks of risks. In this context, he also says that he invites the authorities – i.e. the Ministry of Finance – to take all measures to meet the conditions of the preventive arm. And this includes the implementation of those € 350 million in additional reductions in discretionary expenditure. Now I ask you: When did we discuss this in the Committee on Budgets? – We did not discuss this at any time in the Committee on Budgets, nor did we. [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Not!]] ==References== May. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right!]] ==References== I asked Mr Finanzminister if there would be any changes to the federal financial framework, and he took refuge and said, according to Parliament's correspondence, that he saw ways to make improvements in the legal framework, and spoke of closing tax gaps in the interpretation of the corporate tax law. But he didn't talk about ending the impunity of self-admissions. - Where is this in the budget accompanying law, Mr. Minister? Where? Show me that! Where's that? [[Abg. Gartelgruber: Nowhere!]] This is a measure I miss. If you already submit a budget accompanying law and say that the budget accompanying law corresponds to what is so to speak, and don't be a lie, then bring it here and then show us, Mr. Krainer, how you want to get those €150 million out of this law! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] I'd like to see that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] Where are the concrete indications of this €150 million? And where are the savings of double funding in the area of federal and state governments? [[Abg. Krainer: I've seen them!]] A few days ago, Mr Spindelegger cancelled those reforms which provided for a major reduction in support, the pyramid of funding: It's not possible, it's not feasible. – But now suddenly it is possible by regulations to save 150 million? By regulations? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity!]] – Please, there is a need for agreements, not regulations, Mr Krainer, Mr Cap. - Yes, you can laugh. It will not be possible without agreements with the countries. And the countries have signaled that they know nothing about it. - Yes, that's how it looks! [[Abg. Kogler: It will be a fun time with the pomp!]] And then you're talking about a budget that's not a budget lie? That's where you're talking about serious numbers? You are talking about a detailed explanation of that letter in the Committee on Budgets, which took place on 12 February. Has it been sent to Brussels in May? – This simply does not correspond to the facts. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10645	The application submitted is properly filed and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10717	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. I should like to draw attention to the relevant R & D provisions. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10741	Mr Podgorschek here claimed that according to OECD figures, the tax and tax rate in Austria would be higher than in Sweden. I'm actually correcting: The OECD has a tax and tax rate for Sweden of 44.3 percent, for Austria of 43.2 – thus significantly lower. In that respect, what Podgorica has said is not true. However, I must also point out that the tax and tax ratio, when there was a FPÖ Finance Minister, was actually higher than that of Sweden today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10772	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are also talking today about the acquisition of property tax. The basic income tax is a very, very important issue for us in agriculture, because it is still difficult enough and we are very, very happy when a next generation finds itself wanting to continue a farm. Our task is a great and great one, we cover your table every day, and you need people who like to do it. To facilitate and facilitate this transfer of assets was a task of this scheme in the taxation of acquisitions. The upcoming changeover to traffic values from 1. In June, due to the withdrawal by the Supreme Court, we had serious difficulties. That is why I am very, very glad that we can now show that the work that Jakob Auer and our colleagues have brought in in recent years has finally been fruitful. We have tried very hard to discuss the reform of agricultural unit values in this House. We have previously noted in an internal agreement process that they need to be increased and that a new flat-rate determination of unit values is necessary. This is just running and is a major challenge for farmers over the next few weeks. But I want to tell everyone: Work is worth it, because these new unit values now provide a legal basis for establishing the basic acquisition tax on this basis, too, in the future. That is exactly the opposite of what Mr Rossmann has said – unfortunately in ignorance. The fact is, our values are now a good basis on a new, renewed basis. And that's why I'm very proud that we did our homework in the rural area. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But only in agriculture, in the farm!]] Of course, it would be nice if Mr Pirklhuber could also understand that this is the case. He would then oppose Mr Rossmann's refusal to raise the basic income tax, introduce gift taxes and tax agriculture in order to finance any compensation elsewhere. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There are real estates that have nothing to do with agriculture!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a system that allows a clear, manageable transfer, at least in direct succession in the family. And that is something I would very much like to commend here today and what I would like to thank all those who have negotiated for it. Mr Collegue, Secretary of State. [[in the direction of the Abg. Auer]] We know it was right. Of course, I also thank the coalition partners. I don't want to thank you for the nephews and siblings being excluded, that's a wormhead drop that we have to take with us. I want to point out because I don't want to talk beautifully. However, the fact is that in the future we will have legal certainty again, and that is the most important thing for our farmers – legal certainty at a difficult time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to address an up-to-date issue, although the lamp is already lit red here, nevertheless, namely the issue of broadband internet. We could now keep up with each other that the Bundesbahn is well-financed and the broadband is not at all. I am not in favour of making accusations about this, I would just like to point out that, as we need public transport to open up rural areas, we also need public communications lines or available communications lines. The rural area must not be left behind! That is why I would ask that, no matter how difficult this is, we develop a programme to bring broadband out into the rural regions. It is important for tourism. It is important to keep jobs at home that can be associated with the company. It is important for women to be at home in part time. It is important for students who want to complete their distance studies. It is important for every freelancer who has to exchange high amounts of data, and it is of course important for us in agriculture because we work electronically to a large extent. The re-establishment of unit values will also be made electronically by a large part of farmers, if the financial office is finally that far – but that will happen at some point. That is why we need broadband, Mrs Federal Minister; I hope we can talk about it further. Ladies and gentlemen! The acquisition tax is well regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10859	I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10880	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Perhaps in advance, Mr Cap, because you said that the opposition can only criticise and does not bring any constructive proposals with it: I would also like to add that and also to criticise it, but we have always voted in favour of savings projects with the government parties, and we have put forward our own proposals. But it is generally known that we have great difficulties with additional revenue – which is not different from new taxes – and that is an ideological difference. However, we were all constructive. I would now like to speak on the subject of railways. I am surprised that such a large budget item has hardly been mentioned so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] - Come on. I'm the first, I'm glad. I make the spear tip, you can follow me in terms of content. First of all, I would like to say that we currently have 23 billion euros in debt. This is how high the current debt level in the entire ÖBB, throughout the ÖBB Group, is in the 2013 Annual Report. If the Republic had not paid the ÖBB €6 billion ten years ago, this debt mountain would have actually increased to €25 billion. These are sums that are actually difficult to imagine, especially if we are thinking about the hypo debate or if we are still thinking about the educational discussion, where we have missed almost €50 million. I would therefore like to highlight the debt critically before I come to the proposals. In fact, as it looks, we have more space on the debt mountain, we do not need a tunnel through the debt mountain, and so the current ÖBB framework plan from 2014 to 2019 provides another 13.4 billion € in investment. To remember: For over 30 years and 50 years, the Federal Government has already committed itself to taking over the new debts of the railway to 70 percent and 75 percent since this year. We assume that it is an illusion that the other 25 percent can actually be carried by the ÖBB. By the way, we share this criticism with the Court of Auditors, which is indeed excessive. Not taken into account – [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The question is, how will €3 billion in costs actually be taken over in five years if the railway has €100 million in profit per year? This means that €500 million is available in a total of five years, which means that the €25 percent alone lacks €2.5 billion. Not taken into account in the budget – and that would be a point that we also need to discuss – which in construction projects do not necessarily exceed costs during the construction phases. Here I take as an example the Vienna Central Railway Station, the main railway station, which was budgeted at €500 million and is expected to cost more than € 1 billion. So we currently have a total cost exceeding 138 percent. I assume that similar crossings can happen in the event of an extension or other station renovations and adaptations. There's no buffer here. This means that if there is an overrun, this in turn directly affects our deficit. I therefore also ask the Federal Minister, I have already done this in committee: Why does Austria have to accept huge public debt in order to pay for construction measures for which there is obviously no real need at least in part? Especially if this money is missing for the future capacity of Austria in education, universities and research – and not to mention also the hypo billions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] – There is no need for partial, valued colleague. There is no slightest chance that the railway will ever reduce its debts, the ongoing operation and the permanent costs of the rail system will be difficult to finance for the future from today's perspective. But what is being done by the government parties at present? – Instead of examining investments – and this is indeed our proposal – for meaningfulness and necessity, the federal liability limit for the ÖBB should be increased from currently 20 billion to 23 billion, and the proposal for the pre-taxes of the federal budget also has a burden of 32 billion euros. I would now like to give two more examples of the government parties. Dear colleagues from SPÖ, perhaps you can still remember your opposition work and your election poster from the year 2006, where you then opposed the acquisition of the Eurofighters with the slogan: “Here your flight flies Pension increase!” – But what you're hiding: The Austrian Bundesbahnen devours the costs of a Eurofighter every five days. That would be 73 fighter jets a year, with this investment of just one year we could not only cover Austria perfectly, we could equip all neighbouring states with a good air force. That was just an example. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Another point: Appreciate Members of the Conservatives, the ÖVP! Mr Finanzminister – apologise, Secretary of State, your former colleague and Minister of Finance Josef Pröll stated in an APA-OTS on 22. September 2009 on the dimension of annual rail debt, which is as large as two tax reforms. If we now know how much we are discussing the tax reform: If we were to re-examine the railway debt and actually examine what makes sense and what does not make sense, perhaps the tax reform – we do not need two, one would be enough for the beginning – would well be inside this year. That is why I would also like to point out the consequences. It cannot go on that way that we discuss, with full steam, rising government debt and new tax packages, or perhaps sending semi-secret letters to Brussels, and actually deceive taxpayers and taxpayers at least consciously, and that at a tax rate of 45.4 percent or 43.2 percent – at least everything over 40 percent is far too high. The former CEO of the Swiss Federal Railways once said that all investments should be abandoned, the benefits of which have not been clearly demonstrated and identified. Now the concept of profit is a truly stretchable one, but if ÖBB and the Federal Minister Bures and the national leaders – who have a large part of course – were to orient themselves to the benefit of society, the environment and the economy and adhere to the principle of the former CEO of the Swiss Federal Railways, some railway projects – such as Koralm Tunnel, Koralmbahn, perhaps also the Brenner Base Tunnel, which now costs €10 billion instead of €3. Therefore, we demand that the current investment measures be reviewed and re-evaluated by an over-party and non-political body. There are parameters that have a great meaning. There are parameters, such as accessibility – which is undisputed – when a station has to be re-adapted – that is undisputed if a region is poorly developed – that is undisputed, but it can go over several years. We do not want our own department in the ministry now, but we want at least a discussion about the individual projects, less consideration for the national leaders and more consideration for the people in this country. - Thank you. Bye.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10987	Mr Podgorschek spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, should you refer to the actual correction of Mr Krainer, that would be an answer to an actual correction. In this case, you must be very specific to the facts, that is, without any fine remarks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11011	Mr President. Mr Krainer said that I was wrong with my claim that Austria had a higher tax and tax rate than Sweden in 2013. Instead, I may return again personally and quote the Austrian statistics: In 2012, the tax rate in Austria was 44.6 percent, and in 2013 it increased to 45.4 percent. That is, since Sweden had only 44.5 percent in 2013, my statement is true.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11048	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11069	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw an example from the package of budget accompanying laws to show that there are also improvements that we are trying to move gradually even in times of difficult budgetary situations. We have managed to present in this budget accompanying law some improvements in the field of study funding for decision-making. Our objective is that there should be no economic barriers to higher education on the way to education, including higher education. It is a gratifying development that in recent years, the proportion of students who come from a parent house that is unable to be wealthy, which has no big income, has steadily increased. This means that we must also make an effort to support the study aid accordingly. There are some improvements needed. We are now taking first important steps in this direction in this package, and have proposed that further improvements be made in the coming years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] The first important step is that we make an adjustment that will also make students who receive study aid benefit from the increase in family support. We have taken this necessary correction to take some additional steps to improve. Study funding for students with children is increased. That's a very important group. Students who are also devoted to the education of their children in addition to their studies are to be supported. This also applies to the support of students with siblings. The income limit for spouses is also increased. And what's especially important is: The amount of earnings next to the promotion of the study will be increased to € 10 000. This is particularly important because two thirds of students are already working in addition to their studies or studying next to the work. You work an average of 20 hours a week. This is a high level of additional burden in addition to studying, and it is important that the limit of merit is also raised accordingly. We also take the opportunity to redefine the amount of money we earn in such a way that you can piece in pieces and that there will not be too large repayments if you only work a certain amount of time next to it. Since we know that this topic is particularly important for the group of students, we want to stress that these first steps are important to us, but we want to take further steps in the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11117	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11139	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation calmed down a little, but the arguments put forward here were still wrong. I say once again, from the point of view of Parliament or of the Members, that the procedure is still half serious and that it is not only strange, but that it is against everyone. The spirit of the Rules of Procedure and also of the laws and also of the Constitution is how budgets are introduced and negotiated here. And although other claims will then be made in Brussels, the budget will not be changed at the end. That's completely absurd! Mr Minister, the difference between what you have put here as a reason for the defence, and what really is and would be to defend, is quite another: It is not a question of whether or not we are allowed to say in retrospect from 2015 to 2014 that we are a few tenths better in the deficit, but it is quite obvious that at the same time a budget is presented to the House with certain pillars, a budget accompanying law in which these announced measures – Bruno Rossmann did so – find little to nothing and the budget figures are not corrected. That is why, at the same time, you are telling the Commission and Parliament the other thing, with the deviation from, as you want to see now, € 650 million or just under EUR 1 billion. That's what we don't let you go through. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are sums you should already preliminate. For where has your amendment remained to this day? You didn't announce him. I'm excited if he's coming tomorrow. I believe the amendment that in the case of wage and income tax, the slightly less than €300 million will be corrected, a part will come in through the social security improvement. That's what you'd have to anchor in this budget. If at the beginning of May, from mid-May, the state of knowledge of the Minister of Finance, which he claims to have gone towards Brussels, is not reflected in the figures here, then that is against all the good principles of budgetary policy! That's right, that's it, and that's it. In the meantime, we are even in the constitutional rank. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] But the breach of the Constitution has, anyway, a great tradition in budgetary legislation. We remember the year 2010. Because of the country elections in Vienna and Styria, the entire budget process was postponed after the elections, resulting in the budget – against the Constitution! – was introduced much too late. That was completely wreathed to you, and in today's debate it finds its uncanny continuation. In this respect, Clubobfrau Glawischnig and Mr Rossmann are absolutely right – also to the President – to: It's a smooth budget lie, because it can't be anything black and red at the same time. I can't! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] This goes for a few color-blind, in this case number-blind, but it is objectively wrong. He's not here at all – by the way, where is he, Mr. Finanzminister? So he either lied to the Commission in the continuation of the tradition of Fekter and Hypo Alpe-Adria, which has always done us absolutely well – I forgot earlier on about tradition budget lie: 133 million € for the hypo, na super; so have It always acts – or it has just been lied to by Parliament. Both are un- I think it's gonna be bad right away. They are the ones who always say that the Treaties, the pacts with the Commission and with it with the Union, or even the Euro-17 or other, are to be taken seriously. That's your topic first and foremost. In any event, we are always those who point out that, with all the deepening of the European Union and its rights, we must be careful to ensure that the rights of national parliaments are not cut at least for so long as the European Parliament no longer gets rights. That's our approach. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They always drive in the opposite direction, from whatever motives, and then do not stick to them. So the breakage of the intentions, the laws and the constitution is immanent with you when it comes to numbers. That's what we're criticizing here. The things themselves would be very interesting and relevant. From a green point of view, more than half of the announced – but just announced! – measures are quite reasonable. It is also worth taking a look when we are already in the budget accompanying law and what you are missing here. The double promotions are a wonderful example: You have withdrawn the big litter several times. 500 million € were already inside in the perspective, then again outside, and suddenly over the weekend or over a few days the Minister of Finance comes up with: Well, we'll get that now, but in a smaller frame, we'll do it. We write a small table that we send to Brussels. What's in the budget is still meaty! That's how it works. I'll tell you something else. Probably it happened again. If on this proposal a black country captain even sniffs by only 100 kilometers near, he's back from the table, because you're allergic to everything, where a black head of state, on the other hand, is hustling. Then every proposal is back from the table. It was. There have also been much less ambitious proposals torpeded by your national leaders and eventually destroyed in the end. I'm looking at how it is. We would support you. We would even hire much more in economic promotion, on the one hand for double funding, but on the other hand, because we consider it too high for many companies, we have set aside amounts that are more than tenfold of those standing here – advocating that the opposition would not have any proposals. But what will happen? I'm looking at something at the end of the year. In this way it can be said that you have probably dizzyed Brussels and not Parliament. There's no law yet. Neither will anyone come because you fall back like the “Ruam” – addressed to colleagues Schultes –, so it will be. One of the last of these announcements: The penalty tax of 25 percent. There it is really like in the old Austrian cabaret: Who is stronger: i or i? There's no need for a black head of state anymore, so the spindlegger can take action against the vice chancellor. It was he who torpeded this until recently. We've always been for it. We have even entered into negotiations. The SPÖ also had it in the government negotiations, but did not prevail. But now little Michi writes a letter at once, and at once this comes to pass, which makes him feel tickled for years by the opposition and at the end of the SPÖ. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Now it fits him in the crab, now he writes it in Brussels. But the bill is missing here, exactly in this budget accompanying law, which we are discussing here. That is why it is another hole announcement, how at all this whole budget policy is a hole policy, starting from the hypo hole to the present. And we can't save you this: They suffer from numerical legasthenia, and that's the cheapest you can diagnose. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] [[13:51]] [[13:51:40]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11257	I'm allowed to announce that Deputies Elmar Podgorschek, Mag. Werner Kogler, Ing. Robert Lugar, Dr. Rainer Hableund, other Members have submitted a request for the establishment of an investigation committee and in accordance with § 33 para. 2 The Rules of Procedure have called for a brief debate on this request. This debate will take place after the agenda has been completed. Next speaker: ....................................................................................................................... - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11298	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two points. The first concerns the amendment of the Press Promotion Act. Mr Cap mentioned that there is also a reduction. However, I believe that this draft is unfair. In the future, a promotion of the type described in § 8 will only be granted to those newspapers that employ at least twelve main professional journalists, and the 2014 monitoring period is 2013. This means that everyone who has employed less than 12 journalists in 2013 will fall over the course of the year. This is at risk of existence for the only company concerned. It is in § 8 para. 1: “The Federal Government, through special support, contributes to the preservation of the diversity of daily newspapers in the federal states. ” Mr Bundeskanzler, Minister Ostermayer, you are responsible for this decision and I ask you: Rethink this decision again! Here a small company is sacrificed so that revenue-intensive, financially powerful newspapers can continue to be promoted without significant cuts. Second point: Basic acquisition tax law. I would like to thank you for the fact that the calculation of taxes on the transfer of land will continue to be possible in the future from the profit value, from the unit value. Everything else would have been fatal for the peasant family farms. We do not need a tax on property, we need a basis of assessment derived from the profit value. I know that the Constitutional Court has requested an evaluation of the unit values. Especially the Farmers' Federation and the ÖVP have fought with emphasis for this, and there is a re-estimation of the unit values in the agricultural sector in 2014. They will then enter into force in 2015. It is against the values of transport and for the values of income and for the unit value that not only farmers but also businesses in the economy cannot live by the value of transport which is only a more theoretical one, as long as land is not sold out, but also the companies and also the rural families must live on what they can redeem from the sale of the products they produce. That is why it is good that the unit value is now again set in the Basic Acquisition Tax Act. I would also like to have the nephews, nieces and siblings to be mentioned again, and I would also like to see that in determining the traffic value, especially for smaller plots, where the investigation is disproportionately expensive, in § 4 para. 3 of the unit value. [[Abg. Rossmann: Election campaign!]] However, there are now compromise solutions, and in total I can thank you for the fact that it is really possible to re-establish the single value in the Basic Act. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11344	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Danninger to speak. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11365	Mr President. My dear colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I have long considered whether to report on this debate, but some of the claims that are being made here in the Chamber make it necessary. In contrast to some previous speakers, such as Mrs Glavischnig, I was involved in the budget hearing. I was also present in the Committee on Budgets, where the Minister for Finance has explained in detail every measure mentioned in the letter. Putting yourself out here and claiming that it wasn't, it's just wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: That's not true!]] The Minister of Finance has also always spoken of an amount of € 650 million. [[Abg. Kogler: True!]] Just because you now, probably out of marketing considerations, find that 1 billion € sounds better, this amount will not be more true either. We still stick to the figures we have always mentioned. But I am particularly pleased that Mr Kogler is speaking again this year about the budget lie. He has done this again and again in recent years, when it came to the budget, he has just never been right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] That's the problem – his! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Auer: His problem!]] The billing has still spoken another language, and I must let you down: You won't be right again this year. [[Abg. Kogler: Hypo is a budget lie! What's going on with you guys?]] [[Abg. Whoever lies there is something else!]] But I actually wanted to report on the acquisition tax issue again, because I believe that we can achieve a really great success together today. With the timely submission of this law, we are able to avoid an additional burden on families and businesses. For all heirs and gifts, otherwise the value of transport would be used as a basis of assessment, resulting in a triple acquisition tax for all families and for all farms. Thank you very much for the many positive feedbacks and words even today in the course of this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This was important not to mention the additional costs that would have become necessary for the assessment of the transport value – we can now simply save ourselves these costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] It was particularly important to us that the current regulation does not lead to a higher taxation of property and companies in the transfer within the family association. Inheritance, gift and sale in the family should continue to be possible without massive access from the state. The new acquisition tax does not bring any tax changes to the previous tax revenue of approximately €950 million, says: the municipalities and cities also have legal and planning security for the future. It is a great success that we have found such an excellent solution in the sense of Austrian families and companies and hopefully implement it in good time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11485	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11507	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to continue where I had to stop temporarily in the morning, namely with confidence. It is certainly in the nature of the matter that government and opposition are not of one opinion and that one considers this to be good and the other of that. [[Abg. Cap: Logical!]] - That's perfectly logical, exactly. But it would be something else if you were playing with open cards if we could believe what you're presenting to us. You can't. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Cap.]] In the Committee on Budgets, I have also raised the issue of pensions. We said we don't believe the numbers you put in. The Budget Service does not believe this, the Pension Insurance Commission does not believe that. And I say you don't believe it yourself, because if you believe it, you would have set an effective goal for the increase of the actual retirement age. You didn't do that because you don't believe in your own numbers. And today, fat in the paper says that billions are missing in the pension area. You could have known that before! Labour market policy: Now, in the budget accompanying law, measures are being put in place, but these are in line with what the Minister of Social Affairs told us in March. This was about this 350 million € package for older workers. The impression was raised that the Federal Government is now taking over €350 million to help older workers who have a real difficulty finding their way back into the labour market. The explanatory statement for the package at the time stated that the funds were "covered by the passive effort. Resources that would otherwise have to be spent on unemployment benefit should be used to support the integration of older people into the labour market". In fact, a large part of the activation aid is now available to all long-term unemployed. That is to say, the government has failed to run eye-catching and turns away from what it has said itself. It is incomprehensible for us that no activation aid is now estimated at all for people under 50 years of age. There are also long-term unemployed who are under 50 years of age, and these aids protect those concerned from dequalification and from becoming dependent on the social system. So you act as if you were taking something into your hands for the unemployed, and in fact you are at best putting in place measures that cover rising unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] If you look at how much you really spend, you can see that inflation-adjusted per unemployed person is falling in euro; since unemployment is rising in this way, it is less inflation-adjusted per capita. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] If we look at where the major expenditure items lie, namely in emergency aid, then we see this is between 2011 and your estimate 2015 – The truth, I suggest to you, Dr. Cap, to present us with honest figures; that is what Mr Kogler has already said. [[Abg. Cap: What do you suggest?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Matznetter.]] Honest figures would be a little more helpful for the debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] If emergency aid increases by 28.7 percent in four years, this shows that long-term unemployment has increased so much that we need so much money there. They operate cover-up and cover-up at very many levels, including on the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11629	Mr Heinzl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11651	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr Pock of the NEOS, if you might want to record something – wait, don't walk away from it, write down something; you need it for the next press release, for yours; for me I don't need it – I can tell you two points that are very important: First point: Vienna Central Station. At the time of the investment decision, costs of € 1 billion were clearly budgeted – at the time of the investment decision! – and these costs will also be strictly respected. Mr Pock, the estimate of the central railway station in Vienna, the €500 million you have spoken about, is from Minister – long, long it has been! – Gorbach, and you will not want to blame Federal Minister Bures for this misevaluation!Unknown term type: "%s".? We agree on this issue. Next point: You said there was no need to invest in the Austrian rail infrastructure. – I completely disagree because Austria’s economy is strongly export-oriented. That is precisely why it is important that we are internationally well-connected in the area of rail infrastructure. Another thing to write down: 80 percent of the Austrian rail network still originates from the period of monarchy, so investment in the Austrian rail network is essential and also ensures hundreds of thousands of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, the environmental aspect also plays a major role. I wrote this down: In the previous year alone Rail Cargo returned over 25 billion tons. If this amount of goods had been transported by truck, Austria's CO2 balance would look far worse. You can also save CO2 in passenger transport. In the previous year alone, the ÖBB transported 469 million passengers – rising trend, which we are pleased with. This is, of course, reflected in the Group result. The ÖBB achieved a profit of €102.5 million in the previous year, making it around 35 percent more than 2012. In conclusion: In the current framework plan for the years 2014 to 2019, investments amounting to a total of €13.2 billion are planned, and this is also good. I Thank you to Mrs. Federal Minister Doris Buresda for ensuring that investments will continue continuously in the coming years, because I am firmly convinced that we will only be able to secure jobs or create new ones by means of a modern infrastructure. At the heart of this well-developed infrastructure, Mr Pock, is a modern and powerful rail network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11699	Mr Pock spoke in favour of an actual correction. I should like to draw attention to the relevant R & D provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11723	In my opinion, Mr Heinzl misrepresented me in two ways. On the one hand, I have not blamed Minister Bures for any miscalculations or misinvestments. Here I quote my question to Mrs. Federal Minister "Why does Austria have to accept huge public debt in order to pay for construction measures for which there is obviously no real need at least in part?" – I do not have here again – I have read exactly the text from before and I have previously quoted colleagues Heinzl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] [[Abg. Kuzdas: This is not an actual correction! That's a word report!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Cap.]] At any rate, I did not assign any debt to the Federal Minister, but generally to the Ministry. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11796	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11818	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! In addition to the Budgetary Accompanying Act, we are currently discussing – if the SPÖ wants to listen again – two further proposals from the Budget Committee, which I would like to devote to the new regulation of property tax. They have already heard from so many previous speakers that, with the implementation of this new regulation, an unbureaucratic way has been chosen, a simple and easily manageable regulation has been found, with which we do not wish to impose additional taxes on families in the event of a transfer. This decision is also significant for the excellent family businesses in our country, after all, they now have legal certainty that the transfer in the family association can take place without additional burdens. Especially in economically difficult times, this is an important signal to Austria's economic location. I am particularly grateful to the coalition partner who is here with us, and the opposition parties are also grateful for supporting this new regime. In the Committee it was briefly felt that there would even be the approval of all parties, because the Greens voted in 2 : 1 ; only in retrospect, in the minutes there were three votes against. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] It is already significant that the Greens do not agree with this matter of law alone. This also makes it clear that the Greens simply want to burden more on families that have created property, and that is the absolutely wrong way. However, you are not only on the wrong path in this case, but also with your so-called election advertising in the current EU election campaign. They place a hundred times, a thousand times the curly cucumber, but they know that this has not been a topic for a long time. [[Call the ÖVP:Krumme Tour!]] They stand at a populist level with those of you who, in the nineties – I may call this to mind – were incitement with animal blood in chocolate or loopholes in yogurt EU resentments. [[Abg. Kogler: You have no idea of irony!]] [[Abg. Kogler: We are for the curly cucumber anyway!]] If you're talking about Ironie, then I have to say, you're not just wrong with another poster, but you've completely exaggerated it: with the image of the counterfeit of a former politician to whom you might stand, as you want. In your opinion, this is “ironie” – in my opinion, the hatred is human, and you just crossed a border. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] You've crossed a line, that's unworthy of you, that's bad and that's hardest to point out! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not only do I see it this way, but some people in their own party also see it this way, because in Tyrol officials are expressive and have overpainted these unscrupulous posters themselves. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Go inside and leave behind In future, in the sense of a fair election debate, please have such posters! They have – and with that I close – crossed a border, and this should not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11902	Mr Wimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11923	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: ( towards ÖVP) Was that your group leader or not? Is he still a member of the ÖVP?]] [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Why not?! Would fit well!]] The ÖIAG will deliver dividends again in the next two years. I hope that the budget approaches will keep, but I believe that the ÖIAG should not think exclusively of dividend policy, but primarily of securing jobs in our country. The conclusion of the Syndicate Agreement between ÖIAG and América Móvil, which was a few weeks ago, was not really a positive contribution to the site security, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, this syndicate contract is a compromise agreement – it is not from me, it is in all media –: We have given up the industrial leadership; there are no majority in the future Deutsche Telekom Supervisory Board, nor is there an Austrian majority in the Board of Directors; there is no fixed commitment to investments – investments for Austria – and there is no job guarantee either. However, ladies and gentlemen, there will be an increase in capital, with the ÖIAG paying €250 million in the foreseeable future. There has been complete transparency as regards the content of the contract. This is not only a criticism of workers' representatives, who are represented in the Supervisory Board, but even of the capital side, there has been massive criticism. We must not think of the Supervisory Board meeting, ladies and gentlemen, as chaotics really played. Of course, it is a bit embarrassing if the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is not present at the most important meeting of the last ten years and has to be flown in at some point in the night; that speaks for himself. [[Abg. Kogler: Main thing, they renew themselves!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this procedure is diletantic, something like this must not happen! Ladies and gentlemen! It strikes the bottom of the barrel when workers' representatives sitting there on the Supervisory Board have to hold as scapegoats. Now ÖIAG-Chair Kemler has decided to take the employee representatives to account and file a complaint. He thinks the works councils would have violated the duty of care. I mean, there has never been anything like this, ladies and gentlemen, that a Chairman of the Board, as it were, filed a complaint towards the supervisory body because they did not vote as he believed. This is embarrassing, and it would be good for Mr. Kemler to apologize to the workers' representatives and to clear the way. I say this in all clarity, in all openness, because these are not conditions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore also important to rethink the structures now. The ÖIAG structures are urgently amended. This order mode of the self-renewing Supervisory Board is a farce – it is not from me either, but it was actually said by the one who created it, Dr. Raidl, and it is very unexpected to be works councillor and employee representatives. If even he believes that this approach is a farce, then one obviously has to think about it and change the fastest. I simply believe that the ÖIAG needs to be again industrial policy players in the future. It is about public property, it is about responsible managers who are supposed to bear responsibility. It is a strategy that must focus on value added and jobs in the country, it is ultimately about the industrial location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12008	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I would like to refer to the subject of family matters in the budget accompanying law. This law lays down that family aid should now be paid monthly and not every two months, which will take place from September and at the same time also concerns school travel aid. The monthly disbursement measure helps families who are not so well-informed financially, but above all, single and single teachers to better apportion their monthly expenditure and monthly financial commitments and to better plan their budget budget. With the knowledge and also with the clear indication that this changeover costs € 1 million more in the administration, we believe that it is a good step. However, it is only a pillar for the better compatibility of work and family, for both institutional and industrial development the childcare facilities must be ensured in order to have a genuine freedom of choice. There are also many innovations concerning family allowances: Family support will also be provided in the voluntary social year, the environmental year, the commemoration, peace and social service abroad and also in the European voluntary service until 24. Year of life paid. That's a good point. One point that we certainly have to address is the payment of family aid to full-years. It is true at the moment that the direct payment of the family allowance can only be made with the consent of the parents in the case of children of full age. As a social democracy, we would wish and invite our partners once again to change the fact that they can receive family support without the consent of their parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, another aspect: It is currently open within the Committee on Social Security's Amendment Act, which contains the regulation of the orphan's pension for disabled people who are permanently unable to work after a failed attempt at work. You can certainly remember that at one of the last plenary sessions, we decided unanimously on a joint motion for a resolution, in which we said that Mrs Karmasin should present a draft law that, in the event of a failure in the first labour market, there is no delay and no uncertainty that people with disabilities will continue to receive increased family support. Unfortunately, Mrs Karmasin is not here now, but perhaps Mr Danninger can do it: I wish I could do this with my coalition partner, with Georg Strasser. We now have the opportunity, if the Minister really thinks it is serious, to deal with this issue in a proposal in accordance with § 27 of the Committee on Social Affairs before the summer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12086	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12108	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary – he has taken us away! A small follow-up to the subject of acquisition tax: It is known to everyone here, of course, that was not a simple compromise between the government parties. I honestly admit: The social democratic side would rather have sympathised with returning to all areas of transport, which were also the original objective of the values of unity. I would like to add the following to the comment on Mr Schule's agriculture: If I really detect new unit values in one area, these are the traffic values. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: No, that's stupid!]] If it were a correct single value determination, it would correspond to the traffic values. Our problem is only – I offer the agricultural representatives to go back to history, which is a single value determination. [[Abg. Rädler: What does the SPÖ economy say?]] With an objectivization of the yield value, the traffic values are obtained. However, if you try to make it cheaper in the process, I have a deviation. So if it were correct – you don't have to be upset, Mr. Cot, we have found a compromise! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] I would just like to list the sufferers of the compromise here. The sufferers are the thousands of Austrian communities. [[Abg. Prince: He doesn't know himself!]] It must be borne in mind that 96 percent of the income comes to the municipalities that have experienced permanent erosion for 40 years because this tax has not developed properly. [[Abg. That's right! However, Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support.]] – I heard “this is true” from Mr Auer. [[Abg. Auer: There are also federal states that have approved 20 years of liberation!]] – That’s the worst thing at all, because then the communities are finally starved. You have to discuss this in the country day. To the budget itself: We have an inconspicuous discussion about a really clean budget, which is not particularly extreme. This government has made it quietly in the last five years of the crisis that our country has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, the second lowest youth unemployment, ever higher growth rates than the rest of the countries. Unafraid, without cuts in the social sector, with a proper budget and a low deficit. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Gerstl.]] This path will continue, and it is a better and better way than in so many other countries on this continent.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12214	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Budgetary Accompanying Act 2014 in 53 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues, as well as additional or amendment tabled by Mr Gabriele Tamandl, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Ddr. Mr Fuchs, on the amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals mentioned and on the request for separate voting, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriele Tamandl, Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues, tabled an amendment on Rule 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues on Article 15. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the separate vote on paragraph 3 of the amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues on Rule 19. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Members Gabriele Tamandl, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning Articles 21, 23, 24 and 26. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law approving the justification of pre-examinations by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, including title and receipt in 126 of the Supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Basic Tax Act 1987 in 101 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, referring to the amendment just mentioned. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts of the proposed amendment and on the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on paragraph I of the amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues on paragraph 1 lit. a. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to him to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the separate vote on paragraph II of the amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues on paragraph 2 4. Whoever stands up for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt in the version of the draft government, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform of the acquisition tax. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[14:28:10]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the 2013 Product Piracy Report of the Federal Minister for Finance (III-64/128 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12424	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! We have already seen in the column hall an exhibition of products withdrawn from the market from customs, examples of product piracy. Ladies and gentlemen, brand and product piracy not only threatens the competitiveness of the EU, but also trade in the EU, investment in research and innovation, but also, in particular, the safety and health of people, as the largest product group in counterfeiting is still the drug epidemics. At the same time, these are the most dangerous form of counterfeiting: medicines contaminated with pollutants, medicines that are over- or under-dosed or ineffective at all. The Federal Ministry of Finance sees one of its central tasks in protecting against these dangers. Product piracy, however, is also an essential problem for companies active in exports. I've been looking for contact with a company in Vorarlberg, which is known to you all, I think, the company Doublemayr. She is the world market leader in cable cars and delivers lifts in all the countries, including China. I would like to focus on this country in particular, because many products come from this country. The company Doppelmayr has built an installation on site and had to find that there was already a screw-ident system in this ski area, even with the panels of its own company – only it was never produced by Doublemayr. In the sense, the translation of the name Doublemayr into China has not been very careful and has written on it: Doublemayr. That might sound like a joke, but of course it's a problem for the company Doublemayr. I spoke to the managing directors and I would like to pass on to you, Mr Minister, some of the points I have been given. For the company Doublemayr, it would be very important that such decisions, on-the-spot court decisions, which must be sought in China in the relevant province, would be used for the whole of China as a basis for the court decisions. At the moment it is the case that you have to go through that in every single province again, and that is really a major problem for local businesses. In the same way, the company Doublemayr says that entrepreneurs working there should have the courage to become active themselves, to attract themselves to the judge and to accuse such things, for it is absolutely honorable in China to be disturbed because of such topics before the Kadi. However, an important suggestion is that companies, as well as the Ministry in the distribution of detailed plans, of documents to companies in China are very careful, because these documents and detailed plans are all too easily passed on to third parties and misused in China. It is therefore a matter of creating a corresponding awareness that careful action is being taken there. A fourth and essential point is that in Austria, but above all in Europe, the seal of quality and standards with which these products from that country are very often used are not too easy to believe. It is necessary to question these standards and product quality seals, which are common to us, very strongly and to check whether this is actually in line with the facts and thus protect the domestic market accordingly. I think we can start a little bit with these proposals by Doppelmayr and we can also take some steps on the problem of product piracy. I'm sure you're in the ministry. That's a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12506	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12528	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Product Piracy is a phenomenon that is very often underestimated in the sense that it is a matter of simply buying fakes for curious consumers. This is a short and wrong view of the problem, because, of course, product piracy also means that the economy is caused a great deal of damage to the job market. products from innovation, research, development, design that arise in Europe, in Austria, so that of course they are also under pressure and counterfeited. 1 894 consignments last year the customs duty in Austria took up, and that was 98 440 products. In other words, almost 2,000 consignments were almost 100,000 products. And if one assumes the value that those who are not falsified, who do not share products, then it was €5.6 million that were intercepted there. Country of origin Number one is China, 72 percent. But the really big problem with this whole subject area of product piracy is that a quarter of the shipments have affected drugs and the like. There is also a great health risk, a real danger to body and life, and it is therefore necessary, first of all, that our tax collectors do this important work – a warm thank you from this point on to the employees in customs. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of Greens and Team Stronach.]] Secondly, it is necessary to be informed and informed. That is why I am grateful and I also think it is good that we have managed to make this information exhibition today. Thirdly, of course, political employment on this issue is also necessary, for which this report is very important and good. In that sense, however, I fear that we will have to deal with this phenomenon again next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12579	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Lightenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12600	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Yes, the product piracy, we discuss it every year, the picked-up products are becoming more and more. It's not about a cavalier crime, it's not about any fake bags and sunglasses, it's also about damage to the industry. It is, of course, also about consumer protection, especially when it comes to medicines and toys. And what you don't hear so often, but fact is: There are also tons of counterfeit plant protection products from China to the country via European ports. And this is exactly what needs to be stopped, because the resulting damage can, of course, also affect the body and life of people. Of course, the industry – Mr Schieder has mentioned it before – is very affected. There is a survey in Germany by the Association of German Mechanical and Plant Engineering, according to which the industry is affected by a damage of €6.4 billion per year. These are revenue that is lost, and this, of course, also causes damage to lost jobs. There are estimates for Europe that because of the product piracy and the purchase of these products, 300 000 jobs are lost, and this is a massive damage. Likewise, companies affected by this loss the return of their investments in research and innovation. In this respect, this area is an important one, and it is precisely this that the European level is making a very important contribution. ==References== In January 2014, the Product Piracy Regulation entered into force, providing for a simplified procedure for the destruction of withdrawn goods. In general, it is important to take appropriate steps together in Europe. In- If the work of the Austrian Customs Union is an important one, I would also like to thank, on behalf of our group, the employees of the Customs Union for this excellent and important work.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12637	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12658	Mr President. High house! In this report – and with this we stand here every year – it is repeatedly shown that we are ultimately helpless. We're here on lost posts. Mr Schieder of the SPÖ also said: We'll be back here next year and talk about it again. Only: Next year, the problem will be 8 per cent greater than this year, because the problem is growing by just 8 per cent each year. And that's where the question arises: Should we focus on these illegal, false goods at the borders, or should we deal with where all of this comes from? We've heard it today: More than 70 percent of the goods on the market are produced in China. And the problem is not new. In 2006 the company Doublemayr was called to a customer who complained that their lifts were not working properly. And the company Doublemayr wondered, because she didn't install a lift there. Then it is said that this lift has copied a Chinese company, which was state-owned, protected by its own ministry – which even have a mechanical engineering ministry – and even adhered to a double-mayr sign. It has sold these lifts throughout China, and the whole thing under state supervision. And the only thing the company Doublemayr managed to do was to disassemble these signs. But the fact that the lifts were copied hairy was not attacked. We are even so far now that in Germany patent lawyers are advised not to apply for patent protection in China, because the Chinese then use this patent protection to find out how the product would be produced, because this patent protection is, so to speak, used as a construction instruction. We're already that far. That's the problem. When any politicians talk to Chinese representatives, human rights are constantly being addressed. Of course, and that is also good, that is why human rights have changed a little, because they are always the subject. But have you heard anything from our politicians in this special area? I referred to the Committee's Minister of Finance and asked him: What can we do? Maybe you can. As a representative of Austria, as an Austrian representative, you stand on your feet once and address that! Do you know what he said? Unfortunately, our hands are tied up. I wonder, Why are our hands tied? – Only because we have interests in China because many companies believe that they cannot handle a sales market of a billion people? It turned out to be a boomerang. China has been chosen to produce there to provide the people there and to generate sales. But now the Chinese are producing everything themselves and our companies are looking through their fingers again. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They also look through their fingers when the Chinese do a damage of €300 billion a year around the world. Worldwide €300 billion in damage every year, only the Chinese! Why doesn't that talk to anyone, why don't we talk about it? It may be that we are a small country and cannot move much, but that is no different for human rights, and they are constantly being addressed. So why not address the very long list of points that we expect from a reliable, fair trading partner? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is not only about human rights, it is also about environmental protection, it is about workers' rights, it is about all these things we expect when we want to play together in accordance with common rules. But the Chinese don't, and I wonder why we're watching. That's why a little tip from me to the government: It would be good for you to point out again, just before the European elections, that if you want to play with us, you also have to comply with the rules of the game. [[Abg. Steinhauser: The question is probably not this way for China!]] Only then can we move and meet at eye level, and only then can we create fair conditions for our domestic companies, because ultimately it is about losing and winning the others because they play with wrong cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12707	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Danninger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12728	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Brand and product piracy threatens EU competitiveness, trade, investment in research and development, but, above all, threatens the health of our citizens. Fake medicinal products are not a bargain, but they pose a significant health risk. In 2013, the customs office was able to record almost 2 000 product piracy attacks. Nearly 100 000 products were seized. The value of these seized products exceeded the value of €5.6 million, measured at the original price. The largest product group in the forgery continues to include counterfeiting of drugs. In particular, these plagiarists pose a great danger, not only to health and safety. These products also endanger massive jobs in Austria, even across the European Union. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are able to point out an extraordinary balance on the part of the Austrian customs. A quarter of all drug attacks across the European Union take place in Austria. I think this is an excellent proof of the excellent work being done here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has already been mentioned: Most of the seized products come from the Asian region. It is also true that China is unfortunately top-ranking with 72 percent. Mr Lugar, I can assure you, however: Of course, this issue is being discussed. Whenever an Austrian politician meets a Chinese, this is, of course, a subject – not behind closed doors – and of course it is addressed with every official contact, and the European Union is speaking with one voice. [[Inter-call at the Stronach team]] The Federal Ministry of Finance is increasingly relying on information to combat this problem. That is why I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the National Council for saying that we will be returning to the pillar of the Par liament this year. Parliaments may issue these products because this is also an important contribution to informing the Austrian population of this problem and the risks it poses. We have found that Internet purchases have also recently been a particular source of danger. That is why I would like to point out on this occasion that particular caution should be exercised in this respect. With the product piracy report 2013, the success of the Austrian customs administration has once again been impressive. I thank the officials of our customs for the excellent work and this excellent balance sheet. It must never be forgotten in this context that customs officials are always at risk in securing the smuggled goods, and that is what is due all of us to do in full respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12785	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12807	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the last financial committee meeting, I was confronted for the first time with the subject of product piracy. In an initial assessment, I thought, well, a report by many who are being dealt with in the House, but if we look more closely at this issue – which was already expressed by the previous speakers – then we can see very quickly that this is an issue which is a very, very important one for our Austrian economy, for the European economy. This report also cites a study by the Observatory on IPR infringements, and this study points out that around half of the European economy is under protection law-intensive. That means that this has a very large scope. 35 percent of jobs, 76 million workers are affected by this, 39 percent of total economic performance of € 4.7 trillion and 90 percent of EU trade with the rest of the world fall in this area. How can political responses look forward to this? – I was a bit amused, I would almost say, as Mr Ing. Lugar in the Committee has already spoken about Austria being allowed to make a protest note. On the other hand, we must always see our role in the European context, in the global context. It is the European level that we must strengthen. We need joint initiatives at European level if we are to move forward on this issue. Product piracy is certainly an area that cannot be resolved nationally alone, and this requires a European legal framework. Mr Lichtenecker has already mentioned it, it has done a lot in this area. There is a new product piracy regulation with 1. It's the first time that we've come into force. We also consider what we can do to protect brands in Europe. The keyword is “international cooperation”, it is an international topic. The study also quotes a project called "Pangea VI". 100 countries have worked together to combat illegal drugs on the Internet. Within a week, the customs office in Vienna - it was also involved - controlled 2,000 letters and parcels and picked up 36 consignments with more than 4,000 illegal drugs. There are still European action plans, and I believe that the Republic of Austria is required to cooperate actively, but in the political context and in the political assault there remains a message: that this issue is also a subject that, as I have already mentioned, we cannot resolve nationally. European initiatives are needed to do this. That is why, also in view of the coming Sunday, the Republic of Austria needs representatives from the European Parliament who want to make Europe better, and no representatives who are constantly talking about Europe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12849	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12870	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that piracy is an important and relevant economic problem has already been mentioned by all my previous speakers. I think it is very good that there is a strict handling of this by the Austrian customs and also all the other customs duties in the EU, because that, especially when it comes to medicines, toys, dyes, cosmetics, really endangers health, life can be threatened. In this sense, I am also in favour of the fact that for all consumer and consumer goods, textiles, bags, shoes, vehicles, jewelry and what else I know, there are also very strict criteria for intellectual property. However, we should set other standards when it comes to intellectual property, for example, medicines whose patent deadlines have already expired, that is, generics. It is quite disgusting to observe this, and I can say how the European Commission, in recent years, has been negotiating a free trade agreement with India, which is using the knife, as it wants to force the Indian legislator to loosen its patent standards, because India is still the pharmacy of the poor. For example, over 90 percent of the anti-retroviral therapy, i.e. the treatment of HIV, comes cheaply from India, because the 96 percent of the people in the south who receive it have no treatment at all, would not have access to modern medicine at all if it did not have these cheap Indian drugs. I therefore believe that intellectual property rights should set different standards. The question of whether the European Commission, the European Union, the European Parliament can be driven by the sole economic interests of the pharmaceutical companies, the multis, or whether they take on solidarity responsibility for poor people in the world is not grudging, does not matter, and I think this is also the case on Sunday. A strong European social democracy is also on the right side in issues of intellectual property rights and certainly a guarantee of international solidarity. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12904	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12925	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear sisters here in the hall and at home in front of the televisions! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Brand and product piracy is called Trade in counterfeit goods. Trade in counterfeit goods means a massive job threat in Europe and ultimately also in Austria. We live in a country where quality is valued: Quality in product development, quality at work. In the case of counterfeit goods which are a cheap replication, these quality specifications are eroded. Therefore, we must work together at European level in order to act together against piracy in Europe. Quality in products also means securing jobs in our country, and this means that our economy remains competitive. Competitiveness is increasingly based on creativity and innovation. Throughout Europe, 76 million workers – almost ten times as many as Austria has residents – work in companies dependent on the protection of intellectual property. All these 76 million people are directly or indirectly threatened by product piracy in their existence. We've already heard: 98 500 products have been confiscated in 2013, products that are worth more than €5.6 million, measured at the original price, €5.6 million, which are lacking the workers in Europe, the employees in Austria and thus also the economy. Although the number of seized goods has halved within a year – from 2012 to 2013 – the value has increased by €1.4 million, mainly due to product counterfeiting in the area of expensive cosmetics and mobile phones. Product piracy poses a threat to jobs, health and safety. It is now a market with a wide range of products: Sports clothing, shoes, cosmetics, hygiene products and so on. The largest group in the fakes still affects the medications. Around 25 percent of all shipments found by Austrian customs with counterfeits were this most dangerous form of product piracy. We must act together against it, in the sense of security and responsible policy in Europe. The EU Action Plan 2013–2017 is an essential step in this direction. Intellectual property must be protected in order to preserve and protect jobs, to safeguard jobs, to secure existences and to provide the foundation for a functioning stable economy. If we are committed to Europe-wide cooperation against piracy, we are committed to strengthening cooperation with the European Observatory on IPR violations and law enforcement authorities, we are committed to combating trade in goods that violate intellectual property rights! This Action Plan provides for 21 concrete measures to be implemented by the Commission and the countries, such as the information of rights holders and actors or the annual publication of statistics, and so on. Only these measures will enable us to defend the high European standard. There should not be a reduction in our high consumer protection or social standards, including free trade agreements such as those currently under discussion with the USA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12982	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Financial Committee to take note of this report III-64 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:56:33]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (100 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervisory Act and the Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act (129 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13031	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kogler spoke. – Ladies and gentlemen, we should interrupt in 3 minutes. If you plan to keep your speaking time carefully, then that would be the outcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13058	One to two minutes, Mr President, we have already set out in detail our reservations in the Committee concerning this amendment. Only one thing I would like to add, since everything has to do with finances and budgets anyway. Mr Secretary of State, be You don't hurt me, but if you say that the Greens have still spoken of a budget lie at every budget, then that's wrong! We did this on three occasions, and it was a vote of that kind. First, when you put the 2010 budget – you weren’t there yet, but red and black – in time, it was unconstitutional. Secondly, for years, in the long-term, in the four-year preview, you have preliminated the mortgage or the entire bank damage with only 133 million. At the time, you knew better, everyone knew it better, but you wrote a scam budget. Now it's like this again, because either what you're reporting to Brussels is true, or it's true what's here. Both at the same time cannot vote. They do this deliberately, it's false – and that's why it's a budget lie.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13095	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 5 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll interrupt the meeting by 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13127	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[14:59:48]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Mario Kunasek, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport on the lack of willingness to use the Federal Army due to savings (1501/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13168	We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 1501/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13571	I give Mr Kunasek as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure must not exceed 20 minutes, the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13595	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! ‘Heeres-Sparpaket will meet countries and communities’; ‘Federal army is driving down the system’; ‘Federal army is driving at the edge of the pleite’; ‘Don’t survive next year’; ‘Budget – Skill: “Arrived at the bottom of the barrel” – these headlines, which by the way are not headlines of freedom of the press but quotes from daily newspapers, yes quotations from the Minister of State who have reached us in the last few weeks, could be continued almost endlessly. Today we have put this urgent question here in the House in order to bring light into the dark, also to clarify the state of the federal army, also to free the servants of the Federal Army from their insecurity, but above all, Mr. Federal Minister, to verify whether the promises that have been given in recent months – and since March 2013 you have been ministers – have been implemented, among other things, by you. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you are discussing this urgent question today, you also have to look back into history and realize that there have been massive failures in the recent past, but also for years. I do not think I need to remind you that it was this House, which in 2004 with the Federal Parliamentary Reform Commission, adopted the paper “Austrian Federal Army 2010”, “ÖBH 2010” as a working concept a very good instrument in order to write down the future of the German army, but also to adopt, above all, the necessary – and I even call it a necessary form of survival – reforms for the German army accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! The only problem was that the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP have initially slowed down from the outset from this reform paper, then with Federal Minister Darabos, who is again here today as a Member. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we had to realize that from a reform – and as a staff representative I can well remember that it was probably one of the unwords of that time – that a “reform” was therefore a transformation. Now you can argue: Well, a reform is, of course, Mr Schönegger, then we come to the ÖVP role in all this history. [[Abg. Schönegger: Was that more beautiful?]] – Of course, one can say that a transformation is nothing bad, because situations can change, and that one has to live, so to speak, transformation, but, ladies and gentlemen, the vision “Austrian federal army 2010” has been moved into the infinite and thus the trigger for today’s problem has been laid as a foundation stone. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, because today, Mr Darabos, the former Minister of Defence, is present here, I would like – and I do not want to go too far into the depths, and I do not want to remind you of everything that happened in this era at that time – to recall a few things from then. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the past legislative period, I have said here several times – and I am still in favour today – that there was no Minister of Defence in the Second Republic, which the German army has more financially starved and damaged in a worse way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also say this in the presumption that the then Federal Minister Darabos never really arrived in his office, but in fact has always been spiritually where he sits again today, namely as the Federal Managing Director of the SPÖ on Löwelstraße. [[Abg. Oberhauser:... psychological knowledge!]] This has, of course, also led to many criticisms in the Federal Government, and I may mention a name here again, namely the one of the then Chief of Staff of Entacher, who has critically addressed this political leadership of the resort, who has expressed this criticism out of profoundly Soviet conviction and out of complicity – by the way, not only he but also in the form of a letter many high-ranking officers; At the time, Federal Minister Darabos did not want to accept the letter – which is why there has been a non-regulatory assignment of the Chief of Staff, which is thanks to God that has been withdrawn, with which the rule of law has won, ladies and gentlemen. As mentioned earlier, I believe, former Federal Minister Darabos, with more than ten mistrusts that have been filed against you here in this House since 2007, you are sad record keeper. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP will now say: Well, that's Parliamentaryism! The opposition must be against everything and everyone!, and that poor Federal Minister Darabos was then a victim of us, but, ladies and gentlemen, today we know that this was not populist screaming of the opposition parties – no! – it was also no hysterical adjudication of any federal army-falling theories – no –, it was the legitimate concern for the state of the Austrian federal army, for the security of Austria and thus of all Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you of the last year when we received a clear mission. Federal Minister Klug will say, well, until now we have taken the Minister out of service to Darabos, but you have at that time, in your address for entry on 20. March last year, said: Yes, there are many construction sites that we have to tackle!, and we all – we all in this area, but especially the Federal Minister of State’s Defense – have on 20 November. In the last year's national survey on military service or the army of occupations received a clear mandate, namely a clear yes to maintain general military service, a clear yes also to military service, civil service, and above all also to attract by a reform of the defence service. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Schönegger]] On this “attractive” if I can put it under quotation marks, I will also come to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! If I am speaking here today of the address of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs from the last year, I am not going – and I am also referring to it – that I, as a follow-up speaker – I believe I was the second of my group, after the Member of the Fichtenbauer – in my speech, that this address for us – with “for us” I now mean our group, but above all the servants of the Federal Army, and you know that I am a sub-offender of the Federal Government – was already a hope signal somewhere that politics in the department changed, that communication can change, and that above all there can be an up-to-date-to-to-the-sale-and-communication. Now, a little more than a year later, one has to say, unfortunately, that, if it is just a year after, we are light years away from what we somehow perceived as hope at that time, because, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the basic defence service – and at the time, in March 2013, you also referred to this reform as the highest priority in your office – is in many areas, as we know today not only because of parliamentary questions, but also, of course, from feedback from the German army, tossing in many areas and in many areas not yet happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] And, Mr Federal Minister, even if you repeatedly insist that the reform of the basic defence service is carried out, of course, with a budget of € 30 million, we have to say today that there is still a lot to do with this reform. I would like to quote briefly here from a command from the armed forces command – by the way, freshly printed yesterday – how it really is with the reform of the basic defence service. ==References====External links== In May 2014, it is noted that available budget resources require a drastic reduction in the operation within the Armed Forces Command and the subordinate departments. The following priorities will be set: Priority 1: foreign operations, foreign reserve staff, foreign operations, legal and similar activities and the like; Priority 2: Exercises such as “Amadeus – Protect 14”, the pioneer battalion, ABC defense staff; Priority 3: Framework presence units; Priority 4: present forces (four to six months). This means that after basic training 1, if the recruit then goes to basic training 2 – the basic defence service is known to last 6 months – vehicles are available to a reduced extent. [[Abg. Street:... 2 000 kilometers of walk!]] And now comes the last sentence of this command, which discusses how it looks: In order to find out the available material budget, the logistically subordinated associations and departments, according to distributors, are assigned to provide in principle the available motor vehicles of fleets Puch G, Pinzgauer and 12M18 only for priority 1 and 2 projects. According to order, ladies and gentlemen, the basic defence officer and the reform of the basic defence service have priority 4. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Abg. Strache: The basic defense officer can be assigned to officials!]] Here you can find the following, Mr. Federal Minister – I am so sorry –: In the phase in which we are now, the reform de facto has failed. And if the reform has failed, you too have failed because we are a Freedom Party [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You will, of course, also measure the success of this reform. But, ladies and gentlemen, and I am now allowed to look at my right side, of course, the ÖVP is also responsible in many areas. As a government and coalition partner, you cannot simply clean yourself up and say: We have nothing to do with that! - But later on. I would like to remind you that, together, Mr Federal Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, we adopted the security strategy last year – a security strategy that should have been the basis for the future order performance of the Austrian federal army, I am now well aware that it should have been the basis for further political decisions and should have served as such, but today we are far, far away due to the disastrous budgetary situation of the German army – and we still have the task of discussing the budget this week. We must, I believe, look at this security strategy again in detail here, and I believe that it will be possible to evaluate what is left of this security strategy, and I believe that it will, of course, also meet me and also us here in this House in the Defence Committee in the next few months. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments: If – I can quote again – an active military commander is quoted in a daily newspaper like this: “We can no longer perform the repair of our vehicles”, or: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Insanity!]] [[Abg. You're crazy!]] “If we lose the German army’s mobility, we will also lose the opportunity to provide greater assistance such as in floods,” I believe that this urgent question is justified today, that a security debate in this House is also justified here and, above all, a critical lighting of the SPÖ and ÖVP security declaration in the field of defence policy. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr Bundesminister, word flood use. I assume that in your speech you will probably address the great achievements that have been done in the last few days and weeks: great achievements, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, in the country, as well as abroad, where the German army is doing great things. – But let me make the following comment here as well: These great achievements were not due, as you think, to great defence policy approaches from you, Mr. Federal Minister, but also not to those provided by the ÖVP as a government partner, but were therefore achieved because the Austrian army's soldiers – and here I say: as in the years before, no matter whether domestically or abroad, often under the most adverse conditions, in many areas without budgetary coverage and with often obsolete equipment – entered into these operations with real personal commitment. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I should like to express my sincere thanks to these soldiers. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But exactly these soldiers, who have now been addressed and who are in operation and who are doing great things for our Austrians, but also for those affected abroad, are those who have often become the victims of this uncertainty policy in the defence policy of the Federal Government and of SPÖ and ÖVP – I say it quite self-confidently and openly as the personnel representative of the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look more closely at the statements made by the Federal Minister last week, you will soon realize that, of course, the staff will also have to expect large cuts in many areas. And now I say, carefully: A slug who thinks bad! – We have this autumn to beat the personnel representation elections in the German army. [[Abg. Wenninger: That's why the current request!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Much of what will happen to us in this area will probably only come to us in 2015. [[Abg. Strache: Promise something again and then break again!]] [[Abg. Schönegger: How the bad guy thinks!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I remember – Mr Pendl, before you shout in here – I only recall the discussion that we held just a few weeks ago, which has been here for decades, yes, decades, which has been here in this House since 1997. This discussion is about finally ensuring the rights of the former soldiers of the time, where 30 months have still been covered, who have served for months and years for the Republic of Austria without overtime and with 12 monthly salaries, and who today, when it comes to getting decent pensions or going into retirement, are, in fact, the victims of your policy, Mr Pendl. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] [[Abg. Blow: Minimum security for groundmen, that would be something!]] There is a need for action, and one must finally put it there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we do not only have the problems with those who are about to retire or retire, no, you know, and the Federal Minister knows – you will probably know now at the latest – that we also have great difficulties within the federal army today. I am telling you, Minister of State, ladies and gentlemen, that we are moving in a direction where the Austrian Federal Army is no longer attractive as a service and an employer. Now one or the other can say: Well, everyone's free where he's going! , but, ladies and gentlemen, we already have the situation today that well-trained young forces – I speak here of 25 to 35-year-old officers and officers who have enjoyed training in the federal army – have enjoyed a very good training – say today: [[Abg. Straw: The neutrality tasks are no longer to be fulfilled if that goes on!]] No, I don't want to stay in this system, I don't see a future here! and switch to the private sector or to other areas of public service. Now, as a staff representative, you can say: Well, then we support this!, but all of us here in this House, ladies and gentlemen, have a responsibility to the German army, and if personnel policy and policy in the field of defence as a whole does not change, then this trend will continue and then we will experience a situation where the best and the people we need will no longer find ourselves, but then we have the situation – the Minister of the Federal Government knows the numbers – that we will experience an ageing that will become even worse than it is today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A statement of the past weeks, which has particularly surprised, but probably symbolic of those who, as has been said, have been neglected for many years by the Federal Government, was the statement of the Federal Minister: “For so much money, there is so much federal master!” What may sound pragmatic at the first moment is, of course, a capitulation in the field of defence policy at second glance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you know a country in Europe – let us stay in Europe! – which regulates its defence capacity, its security policy orientation according to purely budgetary terms? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that I should remind anyone in this House of how quickly situations and things can change. I remember Ukraine, where we are today experiencing a situation that, of course, Austria can also meet, which also shows how quickly things can change within Europe, where we also see that the time-consuming and forecasting advance periods of years – yes, up to ten years! – there is no crisis detection and rapid response at all, so it is clear that in Austria we also need to take precautions to prepare for such situation changes accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger]] [[Abg. Strache: The maintenance of neutrality becomes a national defense!]] Ukraine, the Arab Spring and so on should be signs! And, ladies and gentlemen, especially Austria as a neutral country – Mr Weninger, Austria as a neutral country, and I assume that you are also the neutrality – should also live and implement the constitutional tasks of the German army, which are still in the constitution, and not, with a sparing pressure, the last few neutralities that have left us red and black, also be eliminated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger]] [[Abg. It's not going to be alive! It's not lived by the SPÖ! It's a party!]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now these were things that happened in the past, but allow me to hold one more thing: If we experience a situation today where the reform of the military service has failed – failed in many areas – if we are going to experience a Federal Minister in a few minutes – I assume – that the situation will be beautiful again, which will say again: [[Abg. Schönegger: That's not true!]] Well, it's not that bad; we've reached the bottom of the barrel, but it's going on already!, then I'd like to finally remind you that it's us – we're here in this House! – which this week will decide on the budget that we should ensure the legal framework conditions for the Austrian federal army, and that we, as independent and above all self-confident Members, will become active, and should also report to us here once again, if the Federal Minister leaves the principle of how he announced him in his address in 2013 when he said: “As a Federal Minister, I feel committed to the House as the highest body of legislation and control. My actions will also be based on this principle.” I would like to remind all the members of the Committee on Budgets, the area of military defence, of the last Tuesday, where we have received little to no information on the possible savings of the federal army, where we have still been directed in the usual dwindling, military language – it was Mr Fuchs, it was the Member of Parliament of the Federal Republic of Germany –: Well, the FPÖ, small-carriage; I have a 2-billion budget to manage! And in the final effect the House was not informed, but the next day the savings were to read the first savings steps already in the newspaper. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the parliamentaryism I am imagining. Mr. Federal Minister, I hope this is not the way you meant to deal with your address in 2013. As Members of this House, we have the right to speak. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I call on all of us here today to decide, at last in the area of security policy, in the area of defence policy, self-confidence and above all in accordance with your conscience, and I look forward to answering the urgent question.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13976	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Smartly reported. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The Federal Minister is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14014	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners, listeners and spectators at home on televisions! Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen, after having had the opportunity to get to know each other better over the last 14 months, you know that there is only direct access from me. Therefore, before I come to answer the questions, let me perhaps briefly clarify the fronts! Each one of you, who is honestly concerned about the future of the Austrian federal army, has a faithful ally in me. [[Call the FPÖ: Safe!]] Every one of you who is willing to fight for a solid future of our army and the necessary financial resources and the necessary equipment has in me a reliable and stubborn ally. Every one of you who wants to work on a further development of our army, to an effective employability and to military forces at the level of time, has a committed ally in me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] I do not want to go into any literal interpretation, Mr Kunasek, at the beginning, but I would like to say one thing clearly and clearly: I have no understanding of those who want to use the difficult situation of our army for political change and for personal profiling. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Who is responsible for the situation if not you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. New builder: You're the grave!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] I also have no understanding of those who want to raise a rhetorical tomb to the Austrian federal army for their own benefit here in the House today. I also have no understanding for those who, through permanent black-painting and with perfect renunciation of the excellent achievements of our soldiers, undermine the trust of the population in our army. [[Abg. Street: Are you listening to your officers?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] All those who have been ringing the death bells for years for the Austrian federal army are doing great things for our army. One example is the recent aid efforts in the fight against floods in Austria and Bosnia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I'm not here today to speak up about the situation. Yes, the recent savings in the budget for 2014 and 2015 present enormous challenges to the Austrian federal army. I have succeeded in negotiating significant cuts in budget cuts in both budgets. Mr Kunasek, you know that! Nevertheless, we face a situation where the army cannot be financed by the available financial resources in its current structure and size. On the one hand, the recent savings in the budgets of the two years ahead have caused the strained financial situation much earlier, for example through the purchase of the Eurofighters, by a right of service overdue for years, by failure to implement other necessary reforms and by the fact that we have had to save a full annual budget in the last ten years. So what must be the necessary consequences of the current financial dilemma? – On the one hand, we need to put in place urgent measures to contribute to the savings imposed. The measures for both years have already been described in detail by me in the course of the budget creation. These are restrictions which become apparent and visible throughout the Austrian army – both in the administration, in the ministry, in public relations, in parts of the armed forces and in the fleet. In addition, we also need to take long-term measures to cope with the new budgetary situation. That is why I have commissioned the military leader to develop a concept for a new structure for our army. The guideline is clear. Ladies and gentlemen, we must focus on the most likely tasks in the future. For me, this includes domestic disaster aid, foreign peace missions, airspace surveillance and, on the basis of the 2013 popular decision, the reform of the ground defense service. In addition to these key points, however, the financial situation will also require that we discuss changes together without scams and without taboos. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to deepen cooperation with similar partners and to use synergies wherever possible and useful. I am thinking here of the deepening of cooperation in the area of cross-border disaster aid, of common peacekeeping operations, but also of the joint development of skills. However, ladies and gentlemen, we will also have to be aware that parts of these tasks will only be fully handled in the future if the Republic is willing to take control of money. In the field of airspace surveillance, I am thinking about our SAAB 105, which must be replaced by 2020. In the area of disaster aid, the helicopter fleet will have to be supplemented because our Alouette III will reach its maximum lifetime in foreseeable time. Our Black Hawks as the most powerful helicopter in the Republic will need modernisation over the next three years to remain fully operational. I could continue this list, as you can certainly imagine. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Federal Government has set itself an ambitious and important goal by 2016 with the achievement of the zero deficit. It is clear that all departments have to make a corresponding contribution, therefore also the Austrian federal army. It is clear, however, that there will be no security at zero rate. An army is, of course, directly and directly dependent on the budget as far as its size and capabilities are concerned. I will therefore make a strong contribution to the fact that, from 2016 onwards, there will also be the appropriate financial means for necessary procurement and investment in the Austrian federal army; and I am sure that I can rely on your support on this issue. [[Abg. Strache: Back to stone slutters and on foot!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Now I come to answer your questions. Questions 1, 4, 31, 33, 35 and 37: I have commissioned the General Staff to make plans to put the Austrian federal army on new feet. My priorities are clearly defined: first of all, the orientation of the operations likely to be used in the military; second, the continuation of international engagement at a high level; third, the deepening of European cooperation with equal partners; fourth: The military reform must be implemented! I expect these plans to be completed and presented in the middle of the year. Questions 2 and 3, 5 to 10, 19, 27, 29 and 30: With the security strategy adopted by a broad majority in Parliament last year, we have a solid and up-to-date foundation for the reorientation and further development of our defence policy. The basic assumptions of possible threats and challenges of the future are at the level of time. [[Abg. Strache: The Ukraine crisis has changed a lot!]] The Austrian Federal Army is an essential factor in internal and external security. However, in view of the resources available, clear priorities and heavy weight formations are also more necessary in this context than ever. I will therefore implement the requirements of the Security Strategy in the framework of the Defence Policy sub-strategy for the military sector. In any case, we will comply with the strengths laid down in the security strategy as indispensable requirements. I should like to remind you that we provide 55 000 soldiers as a total force, of which 12 500 present forces for domestic disaster relief, at least 1 100 soldiers as a permanent service for our foreign operations, as well as other 100 experts in support of conflict prevention and military training tasks. As announced in the Committee, I will hold talks with the speakers at the political level on the part-strategy of defence policy. I also intend to inform the National Security Council and then present this proposal to the Federal Government. On the question 11: The stock of motor vehicles is adapted to the actual needs. At the same time, a resource-oriented renewal of the fleet takes place. This is about 400 vehicles a year. Questions 12 and 13 I answer with a no. Questions 14 and 15: All vehicles currently in use for material conservation are supplied to repair according to clear specifications – stock, needs and needs. Questions 16 to 18: For 2014 and 2015, the following motor vehicles are purchased: 300 pieces of motor vehicles up to 1.5 tonnes; ten pieces of lorries up to 2.5 tonnes of replacement; 92 pieces of lorries heavy to 10 tonnes; 33 pieces of multi-purpose vehicles IVECO; six pieces of all-vehicles dingo 2. In addition, we carry out an increase in the combat value of the Pandur fleet. You can rest assured that these vehicles will be transferred to the force as soon as possible. Questions 20 and 21 The pioneer equipment for use is maintained, so there has not been any failures so far. Questions 22 to 24: There are currently no restrictions on willingness to use. In the next three years, our Black Hawks will need modernisation to remain fully operational. Therefore, the planning process for material conservation-related replacement of avionic components has been initiated. The helicopters can be used until 2020 without updating. On question 25: The entire Austrian Federal Army, under the leadership of the Chief of General Staff, is responsible for implementing the military reform. Therefore, there can be no mention of the sole competence of a section manager. On the question 26: In principle, the experience gained from the pilot projects. The resulting military project provides valuable insights into the reform of the militia. The reduction of the functional soldiers became a core project of military reform, and with the framework representative Jägerbataillon 25 the Austrian Federal Army has a fast available association for domestic and foreign operations. On the question 28: The consolidation contributions to be made are shown in the corresponding annual budgets. On question 32: The number of convocations is adjusted as a medium-term forward-looking measure to have enough basic defence servants available for later birth-weak years. At the same time, the calculation is subject to realistic access to civil service. On question 34: For the years 2014 and 2015, EUR 1.1 million are budgeted for incentives to attract staff, for example at fairs, in schools, on tours, on exhibitions, and for other public relations measures. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight our traditional and highly successful performance show on the occasion of the National Festival at Vienna Heldenplatz. On question 36: In this context, I refer to the requirements of the government programme. The preparatory work on the creation of a new service right with specific occupational characteristics, the word "solden profession", has been started in my department. On the question 38: Foreign missions of the Austrian Federal Army form a constitutional and defence-based core task and are set out in the Austrian Security Strategy. Therefore, the total budget of the Austrian federal army is intended to carry out these tasks. Furthermore, allow me to make a personal statement that I am extremely open to all constructive proposals to improve the Austrian federal government's budgetary situation. [[Call the FPÖ: That was good!]] At the end of this urgent question, I would like to warn again that in the zeal of the political struggle, the confidence of the population in our federal army will be undermined. [[Abg. Street: The soldiers' trust!]] The view into the federal territory shows a different, more realistic picture from that which is drawn here. At the hour, our soldiers help the fellow citizens and our neighbors in need for days. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Side by side with the fire brigade and with other blue-light organizations, there are hundreds of soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army who have provided disaster aid in Burgenland, Styria and Lower Austria during the last days and nights of assistance. They removed walls, pumped cellars, reinforced dams, and solved explanations. While I am speaking to you here, there are still about 140 soldiers in the assistant service in Lower Austria to alleviate the suffering of the affected population and to eliminate the traces of floods as quickly as possible. [[Abg. - Why only 140?]] But not only domestically, but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the disaster was declared, the Austrian Federal Army is in use for the population and against the water masses. Our pilots, who are part of the Austrian quota of the EU mission there, have so far evacuated more than 800 people from the flood with more than 200 helicopter flights. Among them were families with small children, pregnant women, old and sick, who are now in safety thanks to our help. These evacuating operations were carried out under most adverse conditions and partly using their own lives with exactly those types of helicopter I mentioned earlier. It is my personal concern, especially in the light of the great challenges facing the Austrian Federal Army, to thank our soldiers for their tireless commitment and excellent achievements and to express my personal respect to them. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Street: A little more budget would be appropriate!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the face of these outstanding achievements, those who are in doubt about the ability to act and the ability to use the Austrian federal army are in conflict with the immediate experience of all those Austrians who have been helped by our German army in the last few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14280	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. The overall speaking time per group is 25 minutes. First of all, Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14317	Madam President. . Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, please calm down! We are talking about security policy here. Mr Federal Minister, you have shaped the great word “security is not at zero rate” in your answer to our urgent request. For this sentence you get our full-length support. However, they would have had to, and I believe this, be more important to the Minister for Finance of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today we are concerned with ensuring the security policy of the Republic. And we would like to support you if you are trying to achieve sufficient resources for the Austrian federal army and its tasks. We are also concerned today, just as we have shown in the morning the discrepancies between the theory that the Federal Government has in relation to the overall budget, and the reality that is facing us, to do this even this afternoon in relation to the federal army. There is also a clear misunderstanding here between what the National Council and the Federal Government have decided in recent months and what is opposed to us today as your real policy, Minister of State. We have decided on the security strategy and also on the part-strategy for defence policy. And in this sub-strategy of defence policy, which you have already published in the draft in the "Solddates", the Austrian Federal Government defends Austria, its people and its livelihoods. The Austrian Federal Army ensures the sovereignty of the airspace and the surveillance of airspace. It is the Republic's strategic reserve of action. It contributes to the common security of Europe. It makes a visible and profiled contribution to international peace and security. And formulate as a defence policy goal In it, it ensures the military core capacity as the basis for a forward-looking and deployment-oriented federal army. Mr Federal Minister, there is a great deal of expression in relation to the abilities of the Austrian Federal Government. But that does not correspond to the reality that confronts us in the abilities of the Federal Government. Because with only 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product, you can no longer fulfil these tasks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you are one who puts strong words but does not follow actions. You are probably not solely responsible, but you are the main responsible for this situation, as you must prevail for the Austrian federal army in the Federal Government. Co-responsible, ladies and gentlemen, are, of course, both government parties, the SPÖ and the ÖVP, and both of them were forced by their campaigning national leaders a few months ago before a car that the German army had almost driven into the graves. They have accused people of being concerned about the security of the country, an important concern, but in reality it was only about the rapid success of the country elections. And after the popular survey on the general military service, it soon became clear that you are not worthy of the security policy of the Republic. It is therefore also true, ladies and gentlemen, that the ÖVP is totally unbelievable with its crocodile tears, which will be shed in the walls of the ministers of this party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have not achieved your goal of setting up a professional army – and now strive to break the existing system simply. If you, Mr Federal Minister, explain in your answer to the urgent question that our soldiers are now in the service of assistance, what we welcome and thank you for, then I can only tell you if you were now involved in the conversion of the German army into a professional army, then you would not have put up these forces that we now urgently need. Ladies and gentlemen! Ukraine and the events there show us how quickly the situation can change. This shows us that the loops at the powder barrels in Eastern Europe are still burning, that the whole view that if a situation worsens in Europe is ten years in advance, one would simply not vote and that every state is well advised if it is prepared in the event of a critical situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is not prepared for this critical situation. We do not have sufficient powers to carry out any national defence. SPÖ and ÖVP are in the process of destroying the foundations of the entire security of this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Mr. Federal Minister Klug, you always say so much money, and that's exactly what's wrong. That is the position of the Minister of Finance. You have to say, because of the security strategy, how much federal army is needed to carry out these tasks, and we need this money from the budget to ensure that these tasks are carried out. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] And you, Mr Federal Minister, clearly address the three priorities in all strategies: First: the state defense – first the state defense. Why the state defense? – Since only the Austrian federal army is able to perform this service for the Republic. Secondly, home protection, because only the Austrian German army is able to offer the necessary number of persons that can be organized and disciplined in such a commitment with assistance forces. And only when we have done these two points can we go abroad, Federal Minister. That is, I think, a very clear situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to fulfil this task, you should fight, Minister of State! We want to encourage you to fight this fight, and you should also lead crediblely against the Minister of Finance, against your coalition partner! I should like to quote once again what the Austrian Officers' Society has said about this situation. By the way, the Officers' Society is that society that wanted to eliminate your grand predecessor in an approach of democratic attitude, because it has allowed itself to critically judge the situation. The Austrian Officer Company says: The savings in the area of national defence “are a declaration of bankruptcy of Austrian security and defence policy as well as a blow to the face of all soldiers who are committed to the security of the population. [[Abg. Strache: So who's scaring the population now?]] Even without savings, the tasks of the Federal Government, which are governed by the Constitution, can no longer be fully fulfilled. There is an obvious contradiction between the objectives of the Austrian Security Strategy, which Parliament decided only a few months ago, and the resources provided." Mr. Federal Minister, at last you are fighting for the Austrian federal army – and do not desert before the Finance Minister of your coalition partner!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14405	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14426	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Since we have PV elections in November, I said a few weeks ago that the budget will accompany us by November. As for the security strategy that my previous speaker pointed out – we don't have it, but beware that you don't get it – I mean that someone has a selective perception, because I think we all know what is in this security strategy that we have agreed together. [[Abg. New builder: You already have a trauma!]] Since Mr Kunasek has been so beautifully crammed in the past – otherwise you will only do it with one sentence – I would like to remind you that it was a blue finance minister and a blue defense minister who put us in a plane, and I must say: I've always been for airspace surveillance! But I have always said that if the resort has the budget to carry it, that will be a problem for the resort. - Think! That's the way it was! And we can't discuss this story away, and I don't even want to discuss it away. Now we're going to the present. I believe that after this joint security strategy – and I do not want to repeat it now, I have to say that my previous speaker has actually replicated it – these questions are guaranteed. We only confuse two things. I too would like to take advantage of the opportunity, of course, to thank the German Federal Minister, the soldiers, who are now doing a difficult service for us all somewhere in Austria, but also outside Austria, from this point of view. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think the soldiers are doing great things at all stages of the hierarchy. But one thing we should not forget together – and now I do not care in the past, Mr Kunasek – we have the problem that we have taken 50 000, 55,000 people from the security strategy decision, but for a very long time – and nobody knows it better than you – we have maintained structures of 110,000 people in the real estate, in the equipment sector, without even having approached the problem in which case you can even speak of a contemporary army. The fact is that these questions – and so objectively one should at least be in a discussion – must now be solved by this minister. But I invite you to hold an important security-political debate on state-political and not to let party-political, day-political considerations get into the debate just because elections are about to be held, whether PV or EU elections, and not to assure the population, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] When we go to the motivated soldiers, I often wonder if everyone knows we're talking about a federal army. As a person who has been resident at all levels of politics for many years, I must say that the state has primarily to give a state organization its task to the Austrian federal army. I hope we agree. And I also believe that the most important issue is military defence and all other issues are subordinated. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] When I drive through Austria, I often have the impression that some speak of the army of the state, some of them of the city and some of them of the congregation. Then I ask: Where are you? - Oh, by the Federal Lord! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kunasek.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen! Don't move over! You're playing the game pretty. Just don't be afraid! It is time for us to deal with the challenges of time according to the questions that we simply face in the 21st century. ==References====External links== As we have decided in the Security Strategy, we should set up the German army as follows: an attractive service for the new young groundmen, an appropriate service for the cadre – and I say the same – slim, proper, functioning structure, the device adapted to today's times. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] That's what this Minister stands for. You just don't listen! I invite you to discuss this together for the benefit of the Republic of Austria, for the benefit of the Federal Army. Now I'm saying: Live the Austrian army!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14499	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14520	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been reported about the Austrian federal army in recent days, spoken, spoken, written, unfortunately not too much positive, although there would have been much positive to report. Unfortunately we have had to read a lot of negative things: fewer pilots, fewer vehicles, vehicles are not repaired, petrol goes out, and, and, and. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, even the colleagues from the FPÖ did not miss out on any negative reports that exist and some true words, but also some where the truth was not at the heart of the statements. Unfortunately, it is a week before the EU election and, of course, election polemics take place here and the subject matter is raised. This is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen, because it is undisputed, the situation of the Austrian Federal Government and the financing of this federal government are quite serious and therefore also the question of Austrian security policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] – Mr Commissioner, I would like you to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the fulfilment of the constitutional tasks is only to be ensured by the very special use of the members of the Austrian Federal Government, but also by the improvisation capacity, which is already almost legendary, also in international operations. Our soldiers are doing great work. We could all see this in the last few days in the devastating rainfalls in Germany and abroad. The German army is always there if we need it if the Austrian population needs it. A warm thank you at this point to our soldiers. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I also have to relativize the criticism of the current Minister of Defence. A significant part of the problem we are discussing today actually lies in the time ahead of that of Mr Klug, his immediate predecessor. The Minister of Defense has probably left a huge construction site in this federal army undisputed. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's it!]] This is also an official one, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. There is the Court of Auditors' criticism of the voluntary military. There is the famous Eurofighter comparison, where €250 million were not made available to the Federal Army. The German army, the soldiers, but also you, Minister Klug, are naturally gnawing at this legacy. Of course, we of the ÖVP are also in favour of the German army having to make its contribution to the consolidation of the Republic of Austria, which is beyond question, as the German army has already made this contribution in the past. In this context, it is certainly worth an analysis of the previous consolidation packages in the field of national defence. But especially in uncertain times, you have to be particularly careful where you put on the spasm. That's why I'm saying: With us, there will be no surrender to the mobility criteria! We must ensure a standard of training and equipment that can ensure that the constitutional tasks are fulfilled. That is why we consider the lower limit of four brigades, nine military commanders, 27 battalions in all the need for reform to be a structural lower limit. The Austrian Federal Army is and remains a military army, a mixing system of cadre soldiers, military officers and militias. It is about the security of Austria, and that is where domestic tasks are the duty. We must set priorities together in times of strained finances. Mr President, I think that the reduction of capacity in the force or in equipment is worrying. It shows in the current situation how quickly geopolitical threat scenarios can change and how quickly we need capacities that we may be reducing too quickly, but again. Mr. Federal Minister Klug, we already had a good personal conversation with each other, and I would like to repeat at this point: You have if you Your responsibility for the Austrian Federal Army, and therefore for the security of the Republic, will be exercised with us as a reliable and reliable partner. Mr Minister, Mr Kunasek has quoted a priority decree, and I would ask you to look at it more carefully together, because he counters much of what we have agreed together. In the direction of FPÖ: They have referred to the Minister as “death graves”. [[Abg. Kunasek: I don't!]] In this regard, I am the Federal Minister's Deputy Minister: He's certainly not a grave! That may have been the predecessor. I would call Mr. Klug an intensive physician, and in this sense we hope that it will remain that way. Long live the Austrian Federal Heir!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14602	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14623	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! There must be one reason why one speaker says after another: Long live the Austrian Federal Heir! – Obviously there is legitimate doubt that this is possible. Mr Pendl, if you say, Long live the German army!, then I would like to have two answers to two questions. – First of all: Which Federal Lord? And second: With how much money? We will discuss this in the next few days – as far as these are negotiations at all – about the budgetary negotiations. But one point must be clear: If the Freedom Party stands up today and says that it wants more money for the Austrian federal army, it is obliged to answer the question of where the money is to come from within this budget! Everything else is deception not only of the members of the federal army, but also of the voters. Mr Kunasek! Mr Rosenkranz! In absence: Mr. Strache! Tell me. There are not so many budgets from which you can take something out at all. Is it the schools? Are these the universities? Is it the care? Is it public transport? Is it environmental investment? Is it health care? What is it? Where's the money coming from? - That's the first point. And then you say, We need a stronger and bigger Austrian federal army because of Ukraine. Please explain this to me, Mr Kunasek! Let's take the worst case in Ukraine: The Russian army marches massively into Ukraine. I hope and I'm sure it won't come that far. That's it. But what does the Austrian Federal Army do, which has been rapidly expanded according to the ideas of freedom? To help go to Ukraine? - Certainly not! In order to achieve the free movement of the German army, the Russian army would still need to be through Poland, Hungary or Slovakia. Is it known to you that the invasion of NATO states is the greatest possible global possible conflict and that this would not mean a defence case for the Austrian federal army, but something quite different? Fortunately, this assumption is as unrealistic as your ideas about the Austrian federal army! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why it would be very useful to think about the military tasks of the future. In fact, there have been substantial results of the Federal Hegemony Reform Commission, in which the Bureau, Mr Kunasek, did not you, but I and some others sat down: The first task is the UN foreign operations. The second task on the inside is disaster protection in the most serious area. 98 percent of the disaster protection can be done much better, more reliable and, fortunately, cheaper by fire brigades. – So only one left remains for the federal army, and for that we do not need more than 20,000 officials. We do, if we are carefully and rationally converted, with half within a transitional period of four to five years, and we know that. But you don't trust to say that! The Austrian Federal Army is one of the few areas in Austria, where you can remodel radically, rationally and modernly and save a lot of money. And we need to talk about it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I want there to be dialogues and dialogues in parts of the ÖVP, especially in social democracy and, as I hope, in parts of the ÖVP, because there are only two ways, namely, either an inconsistency German army, in which the Minister of Defense may be the only one who still has gasoline to come to Parliament with the van – that is, disorderly development – or an orderly conversion with orderly savings. Something, Mr. Defence Minister, you know just as well as we do: At one point you need to save immediately, in connection with the Eurofighters. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution and would like to make a brief statement. [[Quoted print version removed]] First of all, I would like to make the last point: If we – and we are on a good path – demonstrate corruption between EADS and Eurofighter, then it is good to motify those aircraft that are almost no longer flightable so well that we can send them back in the best possible condition and in turn get the money for the Austrian federal budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the other thing is the decisive: The pilots are running away from you! A third of the pilots are gone now. Instead of 18 pilots, there are only more 12. Why? - Because they don't bring the necessary flight hours together anymore! You don't have the money for the fuel anymore. You are aware of the Court of Auditors' report on flight hours: The pilots lose their license because the Eurofighters are no longer operational. Of the 15 Eurofighters, two are already cannibalized so that you can come up with spare parts. There are only more 13 and the next one is already on the cannibalization list. In addition: 14 days a month, no Eurofighters fly because 14 days a month the airspace surveillance is observed by SAAB 105 OE. SAAB 105 OE is the predecessor of the Draken and already 43 years in use with the Federal Army. It flies a little slower at maximum speed than an average transport machine, but this does not interfere in Austrian airspace surveillance because it is not taken seriously by the resort anyway. I ask you, Minister: If for 14 days a 43-year-old aircraft that is no longer in service in this form can handle these tasks, why do we need non-usual Eurofighters for the remaining 14 days? In addition: The Eurofighters can fly only during the hours of the civil service, because they are not suitable for night flight and because it has now been agreed to introduce an official's midday break for Swiss-style airspace surveillance. That means: If it goes after you, Minister, Austria's airspace breachor will probably receive a form that reads: Please do airspace injuries in Austria only between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. and 5 p.m., otherwise please do not do any airspace injuries because we cannot see them then! [[Abg. Schönegger: That already has such a beard!]] We cannot see this either, however, because the three necessary planes are available only half of these 14 days, namely the two that are to ascend and the standby aircraft, and, and, and so. For this, almost €2 billion has been spent, and for this the next federal budget is again €250 million and annual operating costs of over €80 million. Mr Federal Minister, if you shut down the Eurofighters, then you can immediately close the budget gap that has justifiably arisen in the negotiations, as I say. You were right that you said you inherited that from the predecessors! It was an ÖVP/FPÖ decision and no SPÖ decision to buy Eurofighter. But now you have to act with great delay, because the liberals and the ÖVP did not want to do so, and I say to you: This has nothing to do with airspace monitoring, but exclusively with party and person financing. This is flying lubrication money and non-flying airspace surveillance! [[Abg. Schönegger: Well, what's that?]] That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Wöinger: Madam President!]] At least you know as well as we do. [[Abg. Schönegger: This is unheard of! He can't say anything he wants!]] Federal Minister Klug, you have said quite rightly: This error must be corrected. You will only be able to correct this by a principle decision, either money for the federal army or money for the Eurofighters. There's no such thing as that for both. So: If your place of business is at your heart and if you want to remain operational, then you should actually follow our proposal and help us to stop the operation of Eurofighters immediately, motify them and bring the necessary complaints against EADS and Eurofighter GmbH. I hope that reason on this issue will win at least in the SPÖ and in parts of the ÖVP. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14743	The following calls have been made: I'd like to get the protocol. However, I do not think that Mr Pilz has spoken about people, but about the materials. But I'd like to look at the stenographic protocol again. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You do not need to get the current speech to be highlighted! Pilz always says the same thing anyway!]] The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14834	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14857	Madam President. Minister! High house! Hardly anything is harder to legitimize than military national defense after a long period of peace. It's always been that way in history. The longer we had peace, the more we got used to it, and the more superfluous we were in the military defense. The long period of peace we are experiencing in Europe should make us humble and grateful. Rarely has there been such a long period of peace as it is now. Whenever there's been such a long time, you've been thinking: We just don't need that! It's similar to the fire brigade. You think: If I don't see fire, I don't need a fire brigade. – This is a short conclusion, ladies and gentlemen! In 1792, the whole of Europe thought: What else do we need an army? Look at the French, they're busy with their revolution themselves! Nothing will happen to us! – And a few years later, the French army overlaid all of Europe. It was always wrong in history, my Ladies and gentlemen, if you have neglected military defence! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The current budgetary situation of the Federal Government is certainly dramatic. The federal army has never swam in money. For 16 years I myself was ordered as a military soldier and active, and we also missed the money, whether the radios didn't work or we didn't have enough vehicles, so that we would then call the phone or drive in the private car. Something the Austrian soldier can really do, ladies and gentlemen, namely improvise. We can do that in Austria! That's what we did at the Golan. That's what we did on top of the mountain, all over the world. In this respect, we are really world class. We have really good soldiers who are original and know what they have to do. There is. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has always been a lack of money in Austria. There is a famous statement from Feldmarschall Radetzky, who said that the Austrian army has always received exactly as much money as it could lose in honor. We are obviously continuing along this path today. We have a long period of peace. The situation in Ukraine is an argument that something can always happen. A member of a former occupation force has just said that, in his view, it was a mistake to leave the territory of the Republic of Austria in 1955. But there is also, for example, the attack of a single offender, who first left the capital in Oslo in 2011 in Norway and then shot 80 people. This led to Norway having to use the military. We have order today, but order is never a matter of course, and often and very quickly it can happen that we also need the German army to protect the democratic institution and also for the military defence that we must never neglect. In reality, the latter is the first task of the federal army. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why I am not happy if militia exercises are not held in full force. I say to you, on the basis of my own experience: It was always a good motivation for the soldiers when they were one, two weeks in the field and had strenuous marches and similar things behind them. Of course, everyone says loosely: I'd like to go to the writing room and make myself a simple life. But all those who once have an exciting exercise behind them say: My God, what a theatre that was, what an exercise it was, what an experience! – That is why I believe that this means should be used again. This is the domestic component. But also the foreign component, ladies and gentlemen, we should not neglect it, too, I think it is very important. Remember You're looking at the Golan deduction last year: We can discuss to what extent the security of soldiers should be a priority. But if the security of the soldiers is not guaranteed, then we have to make sure that they have good material and that they are properly trained. – I think it is a little embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, that the soldiers of our Republic can obviously be replaced without any difficulty by the soldiers of the Fiji Islands! [[Federal Minister Klug: This is a military dictatorship!]] [[Abg. Schönegger: They're not so bad! I won't let anything come over the Fiji Islands!]] When I'm with the material, ladies and gentlemen: It is our job to provide the best material to the soldiers. Training must be demanding. People also need to be trained to have a good chance to survive when it comes to a serious case. ==References== In January 2013, there was an impressive decision of 60 percent of Austrians for military service and for the German army. And it is also our duty as Parliament to enforce this back cover for the German army and also to make available the appropriate means, ladies and gentlemen. I think that is very important! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have, to say it again, a good tradition. We have good soldiers. But we also need to provide them with the necessary equipment to enable them to carry out their tasks. In reality, we have three obligations in this country, which I consider important: compulsory education, tax liability, compulsory military service. All three are important and to be fulfilled. And when we talk about money and the federal army, let me quote Chancellor Kaunnitz: The true power, strength and happiness of a state is a) based on a well-established financial system, b) a well-appointed military and c) a wise and cautious policy. - Quote. [[Abg. Here we have it!]] These three things belong together so that this country can look forward to a good future. From my point of view, a discussion about the German army and the state defense can hardly be conducted without a quote from Clausewitz. [[Call the ÖVP: Who stands with the back to the wall!]] There's a chapter on the courage, and that's where he thinks that the more the virtue of courage goes up the higher the hierarchy. He puts it this way: That's why the productivity is becoming more and more rare, the higher we get up in the degrees. - Quote. Mr Minister, as long as you have the courage to stand fully on this federal army despite the current situation and to fight for this federal army as long as you do so, obviously not only do I have your support, but you also mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14990	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15012	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! Today I am only represented by our spokesperson Christoph Vavrik, who unfortunately failed due to illness. On this path good improvement, Christoph! I am very happy to jump in because I also want to bring some experience from the practice. For more than 20 years, I have been a military officer with the German army and have of course met the German army from various perspectives. It is not easy to be a federal army member – I say quite openly – because the appreciation that the German army enjoys is very often low, and not from the population – if you are on the move in exercises or elsewhere, you notice a lot of appreciation and much support in the population – but from politics. The problem is the lack of appreciation on the part of the Federal Governments, which have been responsible here in recent years and decades. I really want to express my respect to all German army members who have been doing and continuing their job for years and decades under these conditions. I can recall the time around 1990/91 when I came to the Federal Army as an annual volunteer and completed my military training. That was also the time after the end of the Cold War and the fall of the Iron Curtain, and there was a bit of panic with the German army, because the professional soldiers said at once – and these rumors actually did exist – that the German army is now being abolished. It was said that now one no longer needs it, a lot of money has never gotten it anyway, the support in politics was also manageable, and therefore there was great fear, now we are abolished, and people have actually turned to jobs in the private sector. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true at all, because in time even the mushroom was for airspace surveillance!]] Then something came in between, namely the crisis of the crisis in 1991. [[Abg. Amon: Eben! In time, even the mushroom was for airspace monitoring!]] Then, at one time, the German army was needed, and the discussions about the abolition had ended. But one did not make the whole thing impeccable and honest, because at the moment when one really needed the federal army, one did not use the federal army, not the militia that would actually be planned for it, but one sent down completely untrained basic soldiers there, and it is not to think what would have happened if they had really been involved in any battle - without any responsibility. So the question was to abolish or starve, but it was clear which direction you continue: The abolition was from the table, but the hunger was apparently the foreign exchange, and it has been followed since then. Mr Federal Minister, you once said that the barrel of the ground was reached. [[Rejoicing and calling at the SPÖ: “Fight of the ground ”?- Oh, my God!]] I'd say it's not only achieved, but the barrel's been going through for a long time, so we've been much further for a long time. [[Abg. Wittmann: What about the “face of the ground ”?]] If you say that the federal army's willingness to work is still in place, then this is relative to see. I can understand that you are probably also out of a personal motivation, out of your responsibility as Minister of State, to present yourself to the Federal Army and to note that there is a willingness to work. [[Abg. Wittmann: What about the “face of the ground ”?]] [[Abg. Wenninger: There's the neck up to the water!]] Of course, you can have a shared opinion about this because it always depends on what use you mean. When it comes to disaster aid, I say, yes, there may be a willingness to use it, but the only task of a federal army cannot be to provide disaster aid. That's the assistance we've heard today. On the question of whether we are actually ready to work, I can also tell you a few things from practice, for example, a military exercise, which you experience there. I can remember a military exercise in Allensteig a few years ago. It was a very big exercise, also in connection with professional soldiers, with present forces. It's starting with the accommodations. I am certainly the last one who complains of the accommodation with the federal army – I have lived in 20-man rooms during my training – but as the soldiers are housed, of course, that's really limitable. This is a bed place where a mattress is on it, and the mattresses are so dirty that you have to cover the first one that you want to put yourself on with a sleeping bag at all – and we have been assured that our compagnie has been one of the best accommodations compared to all the others. But I would not only like to talk about accommodation, but above all about equipment. Mr Vetter has already mentioned this: If you can't agree with the federal army, that's actually the art of improvisation. The tricks of balancing the inadequacy of equipment have been perfected for years and decades. This goes so far that you really have to the smallest sophisticated packing orders. As far as the last millimeter is concerned, this must be sophisticated so that you can place your entire device in these field bags and thus also complete long marches – with field bags that were never and never intended for this use. Or: What a military soldier takes with him in addition to his equipment is the cell phone – not a professional handy, for that is not the case, but the private handy. Why do you do that? - Because the radios don't work. They are all taken out, that's the problem, you have to drag them anywhere, but they don't work. That is to say, it is the reality that in the exercises outside communication is conducted very strongly via private handsets. Without private hands, communication would no longer be possible at all. To call this a willingness to use – well, if it is supposed to be normal, then already, but I believe that the federal army has earned another equipment to carry out its tasks. Mr Klug, you have also spoken about the reform of the military. In fact, we would certainly be allies in this approach. But I would also like to remind you that the militia in this form is no longer at all. The militia was abolished at the time – and I would also like to ask the MEPs of the ÖVP to be careful, because you too were involved – when the election slogan “six months are enough!” was proclaimed and the service was reduced from eight to six months. [[Abg. Schönegger: What?]] Since the basic military service lasts for six months and then there is nothing left for exercises, one has not had time to complete any military exercises at all. [[Abg. Wenninger: Do you want 12 months or eight months?- Oh, my God!]] That means, this militia is a chimary that doesn't work, which is no longer there. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: How long should the ground defense service last?]] What is available are the militias of those who can actually be called in, that is, from officers and officers, from those who have long committed themselves. The reality of the militia exercises also looks like this: These are exercises by chiefs. There, officers and officers come together and then make up who takes over what role, and of course it is all the functions to take over. That can't be the meaning of a militia either. [[Abg. Wenninger: What would you think would be useful?]] The defence sub-strategy has also been addressed. Such a one has been missing for many years. One has to conclude that apparently there is to be saved where the defense is the smallest. Apparently, it is thought that the federal army has been used for so long to starve that there is the lowest resistance. [[Abg. Wittmann: What do you want to tell us? Get it to the point!]] [[Abg. Schönegger: We wish Mr Vavrik good improvement! Hurry!]] There, Minister Klug, I would also like to take you into account. We are also allies in this sense, but of course we also have to face up to a finance minister who is responsible for achieving a historical low now, namely 0.55 percent of GDP in 2015 without sport, where the Zilk reform commission has still said we need at least 1 percent. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I believe that you should be able to be friends. If you don't want to do that, if you impose duties on the federal army, but don't provide the necessary funding, then you have to ask yourself honestly if you want this army at all. We call for this honesty in the discussion. You should either say yes or no. That would be an honest decision, that would be honest with the population, that would be honest with the federal army, and that would be an expression of appreciation. We NEOS are further for a federal army that needs appropriate financial equipment, but it is also – and this is a little bit of future music, Matthias Strolz will talk about it – certainly to raise some efficiency when doing so together in a common Europe. [[Abg. Schönegger: Do all know about the NEOS?]] You can take an example of this. That will be the way of the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15222	Mr Ddr. Fox is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15243	Madam President. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! I have to protect the Eurofighter season from one of my previous speakers. The Eurofighter season does not run out of pilots voluntarily, on the contrary: Apart from the commander and the S3, it has met the six elders, and that is probably personal fates, because they were very well-dominated contracts. The question is what future use these soldiers have. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, but that doesn't matter for Mr. Pilz! For the Pilz, human fate is not so important!]] This state defense budget shakes the Austrian federal army into its fundamental festivals. We discussed in detail last week about the savings measures taken by the Austrian Federal Army. The latest information on savings measures that have been given to me is, I hope, only rumours, Mr Klug, and I hope you can dissuade them. An information concerns the MilAk. It is alleged that there will be discussions in the background that the officer training will no longer take place in Wiener Neustadt in the future, but at the officer's school in Dresden, where our commander's training will then be enjoyed, so that we will be able to close the old-fashioned MilAk. More information about the SanOrg New: Diplomated nurses are said to be the biggest victims of the SanOrg New. Not only do you want to take away the K scheme, but many are also to be postponed to 900 posts. Unfortunately, the majority of these are women, and in view of the women's promotion plan at the ÖBH, I simply cannot imagine that restructuring is being carried out at the expense of women. I would be pleased, Minister, if this is really just rumors. How precarious the budgetary situation at the ÖBH is is shown by an instruction from the FGP department in the BMLVS of 28 April. ==References== I can read this for a moment: “As a result of the current budgetary situation and the associated stop in procurement, for the time being, clothing items, such as epaulette service badges, light grey, rock collars for officers, caps, caps etc., coat paroli, etc. and also in the case of epaulette signs: brown grey bottlenecks given. Thus, the equipment with the basic equipment in the area of output fittings and also the related maintenance are no longer ensured. This implies that the corresponding basic equipment can no longer be fully provided even in the case of transports or changes in use.’ What does this information or instruction mean, Mr. Klug? – Does this mean that in future the soldiers will have to take care of their own levels of service in transports themselves? We would not deal with any organisation of action as with the Austrian federal army, neither with the police nor with the rescue nor with the fire brigade. There would be no one's idea of financially starved firearms just because it hasn't burned for a long time. The problem is the following: In the Federal Army, one realizes wrong developments and shortcomings only when it is too late. In this connection, I can recall the avalanche accident in Galtür. This was the occasion to buy the Black Hawks. Let's not do anything! Civil protection, foreign missions and an attractive military service cannot be implemented with this budget. Minister of Defence, I appreciate Their commitment to the ÖBH is really great, but unfortunately the Austrian Federal Army of the SPÖ does not care at all, and the ÖVP is only artificially outraged by the savings in the army. Finally, the ÖVP makes the Minister of Finance and would have it in his hand to get more budget for the Federal Army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP seems to be the only party that really is at the heart of the Austrian federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15296	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15318	Madam President. Minister! High house! I have prepared such a beautiful speech on the subject of federal army, but I think I have to address the predecessors a little more in detail now. Mr Vetter once again quoted Clausewitz. Clausewitz has also claimed that Feldlords often have to make decisions under time pressure and on the basis of lack of information and has called it “the fog of war”. I believe that most of the opposition's contributions can be classified in this category: The fog of war or, as Mr Pendl said, the prelude to the personnel representation elections in autumn. At the same time, we swear that we are all together behind the Austrian federal army. I have already been very concerned that Mr Kunasek, whom I appreciate in himself, is seeking to find a new orientation, to find peace, to find a new structure of the country in order to frighten the Austrians from a war dispute that results from the Ukraine conflict. [[Abg. Podgorschek: My God!]] [[Abg. Kunasek: Mr Wenninger, have you heard another speech?]] I think Mr Pilz has answered this very clearly. We are in a European security structure, and our eastern neighbours are not only members of the European Union but also members of NATO. Similarly, as Frank Stronach did in the election campaign at the time, when he was afraid of Chinese troops moving towards Vienna, Mr. Kunasek is now coming, claiming that we must be afraid of the Russian troops or of any Ukrainian freesman. The second to Mr Kunasek: You have criticized that the Puch Pinzgauer and the Puch G should only be used for priority 1 and 2. – Yes, colleague, what else? These highly equipped vehicles are not troops transporters, they are not for the pick-up or to carry out officers, but they are therefore at the service of the army in order to be available for the category Services 1 and 2. Unfortunately, what you have not said – but that has already been mentioned – is the whole Eurofighter acquisition. You've done this noblely, but I'd like to remind you of it, because there's also a corresponding request for it. But in principle it is about the German army, it is about the defence of the Austrian state. It is about assistance in disaster services abroad and airspace surveillance. We are discussing an army that has been reduced from 110 000 men to about 50,000 to 55 000 men, adapted to the security doctrine that we have agreed to together, and then some are forced to adhere to structures aimed at a great army from the past. Wherever it is discussed, for example, whether a barracks for the new structure of the federal army is still up-to-date, some head of state or mayor comes and says that the barracks must be preserved, otherwise the local supply is lost, the host does not do business anymore, or anything else. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are not willing to overcome these structures together, then we will continue to run into the trap of maintaining structures that cost the money that the Austrian federal army actually lacks in its central tasks. If the heads of state want to receive barracks, they should finance it from regional funding or from the resources of village and city renewal, but not at the expense of the Austrian federal army, which needs its money for material, training and for the salaries of the soldiers. Finally, the Minister has said this in great detail: Over the last few days, we have had over a thousand soldiers in Lower Austria, Styria and Burgenland in service – now at an hour in the Balkans – with the best equipment, the highest education and the highest quality in Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina have provided disaster services and are still providing services, transporting supplies, storing people, building roads and rebuilding bridges. These are challenges that the Austrian German army is happy to accept, which we are also willing to finance, because it is more than just about peace in Austria, but it is about peace in Europe. I am curious about the position that NEOS take on it, for example, because Mr Hable said that the presence service had to be extended for six months. – Let’s say that to the Austrian young people! That is, a voice – the typical Taferl of Mr Strolz. [[Abg. Strolz holds a sign with the inscription “Do not vote” in height.]] What is the alternative? – The alternative would then be a NATO accession and the task of neutrality. [[Abg. Podgorschek: NATO is going to cough us!]] If the NEOS position is, please, think about who you are giving your voice on Sunday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] I am nevertheless in favour of Mrs Mlinar staying here in the House and not going to Brussels, because I cannot share her positions, but I personally appreciate her, and I would say to keep her: No vote for NEOS is a vote for Mrs Mlinar in the Austrian National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15398	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15419	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Eurofighter, “flying lubricating money”, box for parties and persons – I did not expect anything else from Mr Pilz. There are incessant accusations and accusations that have not been proved to date. [[Abg. Wöginger: He's gone anyway!]] – He's gone anyway, and I think he's a little traumatized. High house! In the government programme – and we all know the government programme, I hope – the chapter “Land defense” under the title “A Federal Army for the Future” is set out. And we will not be able to deal with this future in a few months and not in three or four years, but we will need this legislative period and perhaps a second. Let's remember: More than a year ago, the citizens of our country took a decision on the direction of the survey and thus gave a very clear mandate. They have become known as a defensive army, a mixed system of professional framework, military service and militia. The task for the state defence and especially for the responsible Minister of Defence is very clear, namely with the existing budget resources – which have been shortened, as in all other departments, but which the Minister of State has agreed to, knowing that this budget consolidation is an absolute necessity – to also get under way and to find out. I assume that we agree that in an area we must not be saved: It must not in any way affect the training of basic defence workers, nor the training and training of staff. Only solid training in all areas creates the prerequisite for the safe handling of tasks – that is also protection for the affected soldiers and above all protection for the population. This has already said and promised to defend Klug in the committee, and I assume – I already have confidence in him – that this holds. But of course, one thing is clear: Retranslations will have to take place. Moreover, as the Minister of Defence has announced, further sales of properties and barracks, whose proceeds we cannot estimate today, at least not in detail, will have to make a significant contribution to improving finances. There is also a clear timetable for creating a master plan until mid-2014. It's still a little time for the team around the minister, for the general staff officers. In any case, it is also set out in the government programme and it is based on the need to define the abilities and strengths of the federal army. We need to know: What do we expect from our federal army? What possibilities does our federal army have, and what tasks will it have to deal with in the future? The fact, however, ladies and gentlemen, that was also discussed in the National Defence Committee, is that there will be a relatively large use of resources, in all the savings measures. I'm just saying a few points because it's done as if nothing went on in the federal army at all. There are funds for the renovation of the accommodation, at least € 62.4 million, which is important for the basic defenses. Furthermore, the Puch G and the Pinzgauer are being re-purchased by around €50 million. And at four barracks sites the internet access service will be further expanded with around €5 million for the basic defence service. One thing must not be overlooked because today the Eurofighters have been called: This year, the last Eurofighter rate will be paid, and yet in the coming year, 2015, a majority of these 174 million euros, namely 116 million euros, will continue to flow into the Federal Army budget. – This should also be mentioned. But, of course, there must be an increase in efficiency in all areas. The Austrian Federal Army must be reduced and aligned to the most likely military tasks in this difficult phase of budgetary reorganisation. Given all the other measures that the Minister of Defence has already explained, and in the knowledge of the professional approach of the officers and the high level of commitment and commitment of the Framework staff, I am sure that the Austrian Federal Army will continue to be able to achieve action in the sense of peace both at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15456	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15477	“There is no way to peace, for Peace is the way.” – Mahatma Gandhi. Mr. Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A successful commitment to peace needs strategy, needs implementation planning, but also needs neutral action, needs good partners, reliable partners and partners, and definitely needs to take away individual interests. [[Abg. Schönegger: How does this fit with fungus?]] And this departure of individual interests is the difficulty I see here in this House. The course of the Austrian federal army must be organized and structured in the direction of peacekeeping operations, peace missions are actually what they are held for. It needs more internationality, not less. More protection of the civilian population and no less protection, especially the civilian population affected by crises, military crises, violent conflicts, floods, climate change, tsunamis, earthquakes and other disasters. More humanitarian aid is needed, not less, and there is a clear need for active, effective peace policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Neither the budget of the Minister of Defence nor the budget of the Foreign Minister show exactly this way. Our goal must be simple to share with partners in preventing wars and curbing war conflicts from the outset. I would remind you that the 20-year commemoration of the genocide in Rwanda – a commemorative that has left a significant cut in peace policy – is a significant cut-off for the international takeover of responsibility, including for Austria, also in 2014. “I have learned that courage is not the absence of fear, but the triumph of them.” – Nelson Mandela. A successful commitment to peace actually requires strategy, which is not currently available and which is not shown in your budget or in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. We react only to crises that have already arisen – but not from today to tomorrow, but they have been observed for a long time. We do not act in our peace policy. We do not act in foreign policy cohesion or defence cohesion. We have the method of watching for a long time while the hat is burning. Until a mission comes, so much strategicly important time is lost that one could have used if one had shown much earlier engagement. Protection of the civilian population and humanitarian aid are the top priority. I do not think that without a strategy, by random pooling of resources, with randomly collided partner countries, a deployment is quickly planned for military purposes, but we have systems such as the early warning system, which says quite clearly: Attention, in this country, in this region there will soon be a significant crisis! As an international community of solidarity, we can already take the step and be courageous and step forward without military intervention. The basic assumption of violent conflicts is that we have a variety of problems in a region. This complex structure must also be presented and processed with complex approaches. As an example, I mention civil-military cooperation: in the security strategy a very short paragraph, in international peace policy and also in peace research, however, a huge step towards maintaining peace. It would therefore be extremely important to develop, implement and implement this civil-military cooperation on the part of Austria with the Austrian Federal Army, such as democratic development, disarmament and demining. I am now reminded of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was already known before the current flood that the 120 000 mines were still in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After the flood there is now a problem that these mines have been flooded and the situation is no longer identifiable. This only makes it more difficult to deminer. We could have started to support Bosnia and Herzegovina much earlier in this matter and to be there. It is also necessary to mention the establishment of an international stand-by police. This is not only a green demand for a long time, but also the peace research and peacekeepers have also mentioned that such a willing police would be an important step in actually securing peace and securing it early and establishing an early-action system under the early-warning system, without having to wait for military intervention. That is why it is also in the final effect: do not wait for military intervention and look at crisis regions and then step in quickly – this is not militaryly sustainable, see Mali – but from the beginning support a crisis region. “There is no way to peace, for peace is the way.”
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15522	Mr Hable spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the rules: first of all the facts you want to correct, then the corrected facts; all in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15546	Madam President. I would not have thought I had to get back to the speaker's desk so quickly, the reason is a real correction. The claim made by Mr Weninger, in which he said that I would have voted for an extension of the service, is wrong. [[Abg. Wittmann: “The barrel of the ground” has already been reached!]] I just pointed out the fact that with the election campaign log “six months are enough”, i.e. a reduction of eight months to six months, the Miliz de facto has been abolished. – I have never made a claim, a claim to extend military service. Mr Weninger, stick to the truth and thus give this House a good service! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15591	Mr Ertlschweiger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15612	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President, Dear guests at home in front of the TV! Today, the question of the strategy has been raised many times. In reality, the whole subject matter is quite simple: Austria needs to be aware of what it wants: Do we want a well-equipped, professional and efficient federal army with motivated employees and soldiers, or do we not want to? – At the moment, the Austrian federal army is on the floor. Had to be saved in the past, the respective Minister of Defense has always cried out as the first “Here! ” No wonder our federal army is so desperate today. That is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is the result of a long process. The army was simply broken and constantly starved. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They remember, and all still have the pictures of the devastating flood from 2002 in mind, with a total of 12,000 soldiers in the use of disasters; Soldiers who helped professionally and efficiently at the time, thus preventing even greater suffering. If we had such a flood in the country today, ladies and gentlemen, please just look at Bosnia or Serbia, what is happening there, we would have such a flood in the country today, we would not vote. We could not get the number of 12 000 soldiers out of the state. We could not bring them to the respective area of use, because we did not have the transport possibilities! We'd have to rent buses for that! I wonder, What's this federal army? – Mr Wenninger, you don’t need to shake your head, that’s a fact, that’s a fact! [[Abg. Wenninger: That's not true!]] It is a fact that in the army of motor vehicles, whose repair costs of €2,000, and trucks whose repair would exceed the cost of €3 000, we simply shut down and leave immediately. Get out of it! It is a fact that as a substitute for our Pinzgauer, Mr. Minister, we have purchased Mitsubishi L200 pick-ups, for which there are no snow chains for our Alpine associations. It is also a fact that we can no longer offer powerful disaster aid, because pioneer battalions no longer get money to build halls for new pioneer equipment – that's how this stuff rusts very slowly. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a fact, that's a fact! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Just as a fact is that we continuously reduce the fuel for our vehicles and for our aircraft and cancel planned exercises again. Mr Minister, I do not need to tell you what it means for the motivation of the soldiers concerned, the cadre staff and the contract staff, if exercises are desired and carefully planned and then have to be cancelled for cost reasons. It is, unfortunately, so! Apart from the hunger of our federal army by politics, unfortunately there is also a lot going wrong in the defence resort itself. The fact is, to stick to this beautiful word is that we have more than 200 general staff officers who, after their three-year general staff course, which they complete in the service, attend further courses or strategic courses with their family abroad. Not a few of these officers are then almost ten years – ten years! - was trained at the expense of the state. I wonder, Which service provider does this work, please?- Oh, my God! Like the federal army at the expense of the state, which service provider is ten years at its expense? – The fact is, Mr Minister, that from the many promises you have made until now, unfortunately, not many have been fulfilled. What about attracting the military service – which has been mentioned many times today – what about the much-quoted foreign operations or with the protection of disasters? Without military soldiers, we no longer need to go abroad today. It wouldn't be possible at all! [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Where are the performance athletes who run sports with the recruits? On the posters – but only there. Show me a performance sportsman who drives sports with recruits! - Yeah, right, for the photo. [[Call:For the photo]] Thank you. Mr Minister, I would also like to ask why, despite the stoppages and despite the fact that the German army is very likely to have qualified staff to take up party officials – and this is against the opposition of the staff representative! You have to argue about that. [[Interference of Federal Minister Klug.]] – Yes, you will be happy to comment later. The best example of the entire bureaucratic insanity, which a resort can commit, comes to the end for me – please let yourself be broken on the tongue –: Someone who is serving in the Federal Army today, we say, has to spend a few days in Germany – I don't say Congo, not Chad, but we are talking about Germany – has had to do some medical investigations about it since the very latest, such as: Blood pressure, rest ECG, general nutritional status, specialist review and, of course, completion of the entire vaccination programme for the target country, i.e. for Germany – not Congo, not Chad. So one is immunized against tetanus, against diphtheria, against polio, against squirrel cough, against FSME, against hepatitis A and B and against influenza. – For Germany! So not Congo and not Chad, Minister. Now I do not want to imagine what our soldiers must do when they go to Hungary, Sweden or Spain. It is likely to be recorded in the military hospital, because that will take some time. It takes a certain amount of time. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Federal Minister! Much has really been said about this today, and it has also been argued objectively and it has also been told a lot of Larifari and Vischi. Go out to the troop! Go out, talk to your soldiers, the cadre staff and ask them if they are satisfied with the current state! And ask yourself the question: Where do we want to go with the Austrian army? Do we want a well-equipped, professional, efficient army with motivated staff and soldiers, a quick intervention force that can intervene quickly in the event of disasters, which is not the case now – unfortunately it is not – or do we not want it? If you have answered this question for yourself, then you can go into any negotiation and then you too, I believe, will take out the essential for the federal army. But if we continue as we do now, we do not need to be surprised that we are being debated here again and again. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the federal army is now being set up, this is unfortunately a crochet, a waschwashi. That's nothing, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15694	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15716	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated fellow citizens on the screens, on the visitor gallery, at home on the mobile phone, wherever! The German army is being negotiated here in the context of a urgent question, and I think this is good because there is anyway too little serious debate on the subject of security policy in Austria. I brought an editorial from the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, which reads: “The army is no longer driving, it is no longer flying. And shoot only the recruits.” This devastating finding of an officer brings the situation of the Austrian federal army to the fore. It is simple and simply hopeless.” In addition, two, three paragraphs follow as follows: “If it is essential to save, it should at least be useful. Now, if the army simply abandons entire weapons holes, it also abandons systems that need to be an army at all. To do so would therefore only make sense, one would not be responsible for everything alone. However, only one party found the right approach in the EU election campaign: Cooperation instead of just suffocating – Europe must also become a defence union.” So, the cheerful party council can start. Who could have been, ladies and gentlemen, "In the EU election campaign, however, only one party found the right approach: [[Call the ÖVP: The NEOS of course!]] Cooperation ”? [[Abg. Schönegger: The NEOS! The NEOS!]] The SPÖ has already asked: How do the NEOS see that? So there is a “search tension” after greater clarity, as NEOS sees it, and I would like to comply with it. We NEOS want a common foreign and security policy, and we believe that this is one of the most important things that the European Union should devote itself to in the next few years. We believe that what we have been doing so far is completely wrong, namely that the European Union believes that we can simply pretend to be nothing. We are the strongest economic space on this planet! We have a great inheritance of humanistic heritage on this planet! We are involved in many things, but our voice often has little weight. And the question that arises over the next few years and decades is: Will we have weight or not? Do we want weight or not? – And we say NEOS: Yes, we want weight! and we can also say why. Imagine, we write the year 2040. The G 8 of the year 2040, the large eight industrialized countries or the largest economic areas of this planet meet and informally negotiate the resources of this plant. That's how it happens at G-8 meetings. Do you know what will be the case? – Either Europe is sitting here at the table, in an integrated form, or Europe is no longer there, because Germany is going to hand over the spoon to Mexico at that time and the French have already cleared their seat for Indonesia. You know what? I would like to say to the Mexicans and Indonesians that they are growing in prosperity, economic strength, self-confidence. I'll give it to you! Now we could also say: Well, it doesn't matter, Europe doesn't have to spit everywhere, we don't have to sit there everywhere! Of course, this attitude can be taken. Just, you forget one thing: It's about value issues on this planet. You're sitting on a plane, you're flying for four hours, and you're landing in a country where my neighbor-in-law – Niko Alm already, but not my neighbor-in-law – or Eva Glavischnig and many others are not allowed to drive cars – is an expression of values, because it's obviously important to those who rule there that women are not allowed to drive. [[Call the ÖVP:The Niko Alm and the values!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Minister of Defense! Do something for the driver's licenses!]] If you say this country's too stupid for me, then you're on a plane and you're landing in a country where a 14-year-old girl is shot in the face because this 14-year-old girl says: Yes, I want to go to school! – These are value questions! And either we define ourselves – or we are defined. And if Europe says that we do not have to stick with this G 8 of the year 2040, then we will be defined. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Minister! Do something for the driver's licenses!]] [[Mr Darmann and Mr Podgorschek were cheerful.]] We will be playing ball of foreign powers – or we will organize together as a continent. And, of course, to organise together means to pursue a common foreign and security policy. That's why it's so important to us! The common security policy, of course, means that we must also pay attention to how we can pool the forces. Angelika Mlinar is thus far the only top candidate in the European election campaign, which has survived the fact-finding check of the "ZiB2". The only top candidate who passed the fact check! – Also the only mountain farmer as a top candidate. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP: And the only mountain farmer!]] That's very correct. The ÖVP is watching today! Very unusual! The stars are good today. [[Abg. Gerstl: And the only one who wants Russia in the EU!]] So, and what did Angelika Mlinar predict? – That, I think, is an interesting point of view. She said that as 28 EU countries, we spend around 42 percent of military expenditure compared to the US, but have a maximum capacity of 10 percent for intervention. That means we're not running efficiently at Weitem. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Austrians buy the guns, and Hungary buy the ammunition!]] Now I've been thinking for a long time because I knew – that was always clear – I'm going to go into politics sometime – it wasn't clear when time was ripe, but I've got a question going on: How am I going to stand on the topic of federal army? Because of course I also sometimes had the dream of a society without a army. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: And without prisons!]] I think everyone who used to be a bit of a revolution, once understood this idea. I have also looked at this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I have seriously dealt with it. I have looked at it in Iceland, have been talking to the Federal President or the President about it. There's no army in Iceland! But I understood that Iceland is, of course, under the informal protection of NATO. It's been a U.S. base there for a long time. So, false example. Firstly, this island does not want anyone; secondly, a long journey; thirdly, informal protection. Then I was in Costa Rica and looked at it – a second country where there is no army. Very impressive! I haven't understood how they're doing to this day. But somehow today, in the mixture of idealism and Pragmatism – and this mixture we represent NEOS – I have already conquered the position a bit far, I say now – it has come to me, not me to her – that it makes sense to have a military capacity. If Europe takes its values seriously, it must also deposit these values in this world in which we live with a military capacity. [[Abg. Rädler: What are we doing now?]] Yeah, what are we doing now? – Now, of course, we integrate the armed forces, that would be the first. Secondly, Europe should make a confession that it will never be an attack army. I think that this continent has bathed in blood, not just once, twice, three times, but a thousand times. This continent is unique on this planet. Why? – When I show my children Europe on the globe, they come after two minutes and say: Dad, Dad, where's that again? - We're a little drop of time on this blue ball, a little drop of time. 500 million people! If there's a cabin burning, the neighbor's cabin will shatter! This was pre-examination over centuries. That means we're a community of fate. Power Geography has brought this fact to our attention, we cannot even choose it. We are a community of fate! The question is – and this is of course also the question that will be answered next Sunday –: Do we believe that Europe is also a community of opportunities? We believe NEOS, yes. [[Abg. Arbitrators: With Russia or without Russia?]] The Community of Opportunities, of course, also means common foreign and security policy. Never an attack army, international missions always only with UN mandate! The United Nations is supposed to give green light to this, only then will international action take place! I think that could be a concept where we say: Let's go one step further! And there the Austrian federal army could also develop a step further into European solidarity. In this sense: Long live the Austrian federal army and European solidarity!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15927	Next, Mr. Dr. Kassinger will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15949	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! After the trips to the great, wide world, I would like to deal seriously with the subject of the urgent question, namely the Austrian German army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A principle from the management teaching for the successful development of organisations is known: “Structure follows strategy” – or translated into German: The structure or measures follow a strategy. In the Committee's deliberations, Mr. Klug said: The Federal Army is too large for the available 2 billion. What kind of access is this now, please? – This is “strategy follows structure” – precisely the opposite – in this case the financing structure, i.e. the pot of the available funds. However, I cannot see a strategy here, but only a requirement for a financial structure of 0.6 percent of GDP that is ashamed of the international comparison. This is the brand that the SPÖ and the ÖVP specify. This brand must be subordinated to everything, it has everything to do with it. The fact is that this brand of 0.6 percent of GDP is completely inadequate. NATO – and this is really not an association of idealess people in this context – is responsible for financing military national defence, and that is what it is about, a standard of 1.3 percent of GDP. That's more than double. In turn, this means that NATO believes that military defence can only be ensured at an internationally viable and competitive level if at least 1.3 percent of GDP is made available for this purpose. [[Abg. Podgorschek: The double! 4 billion!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need to talk here about attractions of the federal army, further developments of the federal army, models for the federal army, the development of new strategies for the federal army, if the basic condition, i.e. the condition of sine qua non, is not even met, namely the provision of sufficient financial resources to fulfil the order of the military state defense set out in Article 79 of the Constitution. I repeat: SPÖ and ÖVP provide 0.6 percent of GDP here. NATO says that at least 1.3 percent of GDP is necessary to put something on the feet in the international connex. 1.3% must, 0.6% is: How's that going? – The answer can be given by a first-class folk student: I can't! What would the liberals do?, then your legitimate question will be. – We would equip the federal army with the financial resources it needs to carry out its tasks, namely the tasks in the order of importance : first: military defence according to the principles of a military system; second: [[Abg. Moser: How do you finance this?]] Assistance in the event of elementary events and accidents is exceptional; and thirdly: Austria's contribution to international operations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll get you together. There is no strategy in the area of Austrian defence, there is a requirement, a budget. A strategy would require the provision of appropriate financial resources as a basic condition. I repeat: This is 1.3 percent of GDP – and not 0.6 percent. What we observe and observe at present is the following: There is a given financial structure, the totally inadequate 0.6 percent of GDP, and there are individual measures, massive savings measures, which are intended to meet this political requirement of the Federal Government. There is no strategy, however, which really works honestly and seriously to ensure the fulfilment of the constitutional tasks of the German army, namely military defence according to the principles of a military system. We liberals have the slight feeling that there is very much a strategy, namely that of the slow to-death sphere of the federal army. After the popular survey in January 2013 did not bring about the death of the general military service and the military system – from the point of view of the SPÖ: unfortunately – one cannot resist the impression that one is now pursuing the strategy of slow death by withdrawing vital food, is equal to the financial means. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of the new threats to Austria and Europe – I name just a few: Terrorism, cyberwar, regional armed conflicts in the near vicinity – but it would be the duty of every federal government to do everything in the field of military defence to ensure the national sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Austria. This is not possible at 0.6 percent of GDP! [[Abg. Moser: Where do you get this?]] I could now ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to change or improve something here fundamentally, but I know that you and the SPÖ are not willing to do so. This is politically quite legitimate and quite in order within the framework of pluralist democracy. However, it is not very far-sighted and caring for the Austrian population – I do not say “irresponsibly” now. We liberals have the unconditional will to do everything in the field of military defence to ensure national sovereignty and the integrity of the Republic of Austria. It is only for me to address this request not to you, Mr Federal Minister, but to the Austrian population: Give us the mandate for change and improvement, because it is urgently necessary, even in this important area of national defence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16031	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16052	Mr President. Minister! High house! The Austrian Federal Army has been a guarantee for the people of Austria in the past and will continue to be a guarantee of security and disaster protection in the future. Although there will be massive savings in 2014 and 2015, the population can continue to rely on the Austrian federal army in the future. That the budgetary situation is strained is undisputed. The fact that the Austrian federal army is too big for a 2-billion budget in its present state is a fact that we must accept well or badly. [[Abg. Singer: Oh, that's what we have to do?]] The task now has to be to ensure that there is a willingness to work at home and abroad with the means available. Even though the opposition parties keep trying, as political small money is being used and the population is not insured, I am convinced that the Austrian federal army's willingness to use is guaranteed regardless of the savings. [[Abg. Hübner: Where does the conviction actually come from?]] I am addressing foreign operations here. The security strategy has agreed on active participation in foreign operations, and this will continue to be ensured in the future. I address the reform of compulsory military service, which is planned in the form of modular training. Of course, in this context, an adequate and modern right of service is also of great necessity in order to counteract the ageing of the force. And I address disaster protection, in which our soldiers around the clock ensure protection and assistance for the population – and that in the future too. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a fact has to be aware of all of us: that it will certainly not be possible to bring about structural failures from the past in this period – as Minister Klug has already said in his statement of entry – which have to be resolved with care in the past. I would like to highlight three past failures: no structural reform; no reform of service rights; and third: the purchase of Eurofighters and the financing from the ongoing military budget. [[Abg. New builder: Darabos! Darabos! Darabos!]] Finally, I can thank all the soldiers for their service to the most cordial. [[Abg. Singer: Merry Christmas and a good new year!]] I am often in the troop and know what excellent work this one is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16127	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16148	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous year, there was an intensive public debate on the issue of the German army; such a debate was also desirable. In the course of the debate on the People's Survey, much of the population has dealt with the issue of federal army, which is positive. And the population, the Austrians and Austrians, has given a strong signal and a clear commitment to the Austrian army and with almost 60 percent also a clear commitment to the general military service; not to a arms-stretching army, but very probably to a federal army coming from the people, to a federal army which meets domestic security requirements, can be used in foreign operations and which is ultimately also there for the protection of disasters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]] For years, the Austrian population has experienced that disaster protection is an important thing. In the previous year, thousands of soldiers were in service, from Vorarlberg to Vienna, in the heavy floods in Austria. But also at the hour, German army members are in use and help people in Austria to cope with the flood disaster. Thanks be to them and also to the fire brigade and other blue light organizations that help people here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It has already been mentioned: The Federal Army is in use at the hour but also in the Balkans, where there is a flood of apocalyptic extent. We only met earlier, the parliamentary groups of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, with the ambassadors of these three countries. The flood is devastating there; unfortunately many, many people died there. And there, too, the federal army, also with heavy equipment, helps with helicopters and the like. This, Mr Strolz, is for me European solidarity, namely that we say: [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, too!]] In such crisis situations, everyone stands together and helps each other, even if they are not – Bosnia and Herzegovina – members of the European Union. I do not necessarily see the need for an uplifting of Europe in the military sense, but rather for a political strengthening of Europe to act together and enforce interests, such as climate protection, where Europe is losing political importance and other regions, such as China, India, South Africa, Brazil, are becoming stronger in a political sense, as you have mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] And that would be European solidarity. But back to the federal army. Of course, the headlines are alarming, if it is said that the German army is on the brink of pleite, that the German army is no longer eligible for funding or that the German army will not survive in the coming years. And reports in which it says that pilots are taken out of the Eurofighters' mission, that helicopters cannot be modernised, that truck fleets are shut down, and that officers are talking about the German army having a mobility crisis, are of course alarming. The Federal Minister himself has also said that the bottom of the barrel is reached. It is also right to give the people pure wine and to say what is the matter, because beautiful coloring does not make sense here, there are numerous alarm signs. One hears reports of groundmen, of young people who are with the federal army, where it says: Exercise cancelled, as not enough spit is there! to drive in basic training to an exercise. This is, of course, bad, because these people are motivated, go to the federal army, expect something after the popular survey – and then they are discouraged, that goes down to frustration. The good intention of the military reform to which we stand is being counter-cared, and the opposite is achieved, namely that the young people say: What's that now, I don't see any sense in the matter?- Oh, my God! But that's how it goes to the Federal Army's staff. If you talk to officers or officers, you hear, they are also discouraged, because they have the impression that many are confessing to the federal army, but that was it. That's all I'm gonna do. That is why it is important for us, but especially you, Federal Minister, to be careful that the German army does not become a Potemkinsian village, that the facade fits well and that you have a lot of things on the paper, but everything is crumbling behind the facade. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, he does it very well anyway!]] A good example of how things can go differently was recently – you were there – the opening of the barracks in Güssing was highly motivated, contemporary and modern. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Super!]] And the young people and the staff there are also motivated. In addition, many barracks have been closed in Burgenland. It's important to deal with this. You have spoken of a Hercules task, and in fact it is also your ressort responsibility to deal with this task. They know that in mythology the Greek Heracles, the Roman Hercules, suffered hell's torments, but he survived them, and in the end he moved into the Olympic. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following It is about you that you may be able – in common with us, but in particular you – to equip the German army in such a way that the Austrians are proud, because of the look, but also because of actions, and say: Yes, this is a federal army that really helps and offers protection and security. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16237	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16259	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! Mr Minister, you are certainly not mature for the Olympic, but you are relatively honest in the Defence Committee. I can take you by word. They have clearly and clearly told us and illustrated with gestures: For so much money, there's so much federal army. - That's right. Only: On the outside, it is always suggested that the German army can be maintained to its present extent and in addition, with so much money, that is little money, such a reform can be implemented. It's not mathematically possible! I am in favour of your Committee's mathematics, Mr Minister, and not of this so-called public symmetry distortion, which is often used at the expense of the people involved in the defence of the country. We have to be honest. To be honest, in the context of European security policy, means to implement a national security strategy by hand and foot, which, above all, takes note of one thing – you said, Mr Berlakovich – that: The people in Austria want disaster protection. The people in Austria are paying attention to civil service, care, care in old age. And the people in Austria want a general positive sense of security. This sense of security, but this sense of security in Austria is only possible if I also support it in the overall context of European security policy. ensure that, in the run-up to crises, diplomatic action is already being taken to ensure that, in crisis cases, good political conditions for diplomatic negotiations prevail. And here, I think, the EU election is also central to us in Austria, because we Greens have a candidate who has great experience in international affairs, in crisis areas, in the Balkans and can make a significant contribution in the run-up to what is then security policy in the narrower sense. As far as this context is concerned. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll come back to your statement, with so much money as a army. – Mr Minister, it is quite simple for us Greens to have put this before you – even Member Pendl has at least rhetorically put the rail in this direction –: Reduce to 20,000 men, professionally organized. Unfortunately, because of the referendum this does not go into the form of a professional force, but ultimately we must focus on the core tasks: peacekeeping measures, assistance missions, disaster protection. 20 000 men, highly professional, well equipped, outdated structures must be put in place, international military cooperation is a major issue, especially in inter-European countries, I say. I recently sat in the van with an employee of the federal army – I don't know now, it was a Lieutenant-in-chief – and I learned a lot from him. He has given me numerous examples of where cross-border cooperation could save costs, not only in Austria, but also in other countries. And that's what it's all about. Finally: Minister, this Eurofighter story is the Sargnagel of the Federal Army! And this Sargnagel belongs to the producer as quickly as possible. The money we save ourselves then is these 80 million. With this money we can take the path towards professionalism, we can take the path towards disaster protection, which, as it were, also meets the basic security requirements. And we can achieve this path, Mr Minister, with so much money and so much army, but we must finally do so. This is the implementation of what the Federal Government Reform Commission has long proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16319	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16340	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you negate the events in Ukraine, you have to suffer a little bit from political autism. I remember very well, it would have been said in 1989 that half a year or a three-quarters of a year later the East Block collapsed, that the Berlin Wall fell, then one would have been called the Phantast, or in 1991, when ex-Jugoslavia was imploded. All these were events that suddenly broke into over us. The situation can change very quickly. Three, four weeks ago, the flood disaster in Bosnia and Serbia was also not a subject. And today the disaster there has taken on an indescribable scale. That means you always have to be prepared for events that could break into one. But sometimes we only put our heads in the sand, and unfortunately we are also, I must say so openly, some safety-political kicker drivers. We are said to be the third-richest country in Europe and do not even spend 0.6% of GDP on defence and finally on disaster protection. We have thus reached the end of the European scale. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of the Constitution, and the Constitution still enshrines neutrality. We cannot defend them at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen! An EU army is not at zero. The EU, or whoever will form a European army, will not let us participate by 0.6% of our GDP, but will demand double. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, armed neutrality for our state is still cheaper than a connection to any military alliance. Let's be honest, the only relevant military alliance is currently NATO. And NATO is exclusively dominated by the USA. If you want to, please tell me. You, Mr Strolz, are in favour of this. [[Abg. Stroll holds a panel with the label “Do not vote” in height.]] But that also means that we have to accept TTIP and everything else unconditionally. The population must learn the truth. It doesn't make sense to build Potemkinian villages. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the primary task of a state to ensure the security of the population, and we are unfortunately no longer fulfilling God’s will. In order to fulfil these tasks, we must provide our army with the best possible equipment and provide the best training, regardless of the debate on the budget or the level of the budget. This issue should be discussed away from any budget debate. That's what I'm saying as a budget speaker. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Minister, if it is said that you are the “death grave” of the Austrian Federal Government, then I must object. The graves of the Austrian federal government were your predecessors, at best you are the death attendants. Live the Austrian army!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16423	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, on the decommissioning of Eurofighters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[17:36:48]] Short debate on Question Time 489/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16462	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 489/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker being the explanatory statement. a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Loacker as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is, as has been said, 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16501	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Even if one had to read the answer to the question, it would not have taken a lot of time, because of the ten questions – and the experts here know that a request with ten questions is not excessive – only one was answered; nine remained unanswered. It may be that a ministry can't answer anything, but if there are nine out of ten questions, then I personally think that Parliament's actively communicated underestimation. There's a lot of ÖVP-Nederösterreich going through, it seems to me. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That would, for itself, be little surprising. If we look at the subject of the parliamentary question, the red-and-white red card, then the failure of 90 percent of the questions is a self-evident of the particular kind. How is the Red and White Red Card to be a success if she does not care so much about the responsible Federal Minister that it is not even raised from which countries the applicants come for a red and white red card?! - Yes, that was written. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] I don't think that's gonna happen either. If today a third-country citizen requests a red-and-white red card, then he has to provide data and documents in terms of tons. And we can assume that in 2013 such applications were also processed computer-supported. In other words, in fact, if the data is computer-supported, only someone in the BMI who pulls this data out of the system needs it. It can't be a witchcraft. And if the Federal Minister had an interest in this data, it would be easy for her to ask someone to sort out this data. But that's not what happened. That is why we do not know how many applications have been made, from which countries the applicants come, which qualifications they have and for which sectors and for which professional groups such red-and-white red cards have been applied for and issued. So we cannot even calculate a completely banal rejection rate. But this seems to be the case for those responsible – just as Parliament and the law of interoperability are at their disposal. I think that this is a very basic access to what Parliament sees. This sausage against the willing professional and key forces then travels from the top to the bottom in the hierarchy. In the district administration authorities, applicants – and the feedback of those concerned – are dealt with in an alarming way. Often one can only describe the administrative behavior with the term Schikane. And in general, the departure from a quota model to a model of criteria-led immigration with the system of the red-and-white red card is designed in such a way that it could be a success model. Mrs Minister, you know that, and your party colleagues know that too. Mr Rädler recently confirmed on television that the income limits provided for the issue of the red-and-white red card are too high and that this requires revision. Our requests have already been made, and in terms of content, they are exactly what Minister Kurz just asked for when he was still State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. I am very excited about how the ÖVP deals with these applications. We know from the SPÖ that it is blocked because it means that Austrian workers must be protected, but I wonder: Protect against whom: from migrant key workers in qualifications for which there are not enough offers in Austria? Mr Muchitsch is not here right now, but I can't imagine that such key forces are making his members in the Bau Holz union dispute the job. And with better data, Mrs. Federal Minister, you could easily take on your coalition partner the fear of the red and white red card, because then you would have better arguments. It is also obvious that an average procedure of 15 weeks for granting such a red and white red card is far too high. If highly qualified workers from third countries are on the market, then they are internationally mobile and then, if we are lucky, they look at Austria, but not only, but they choose specifically in which country they are using their labour force, and unfortunately, there is no “winner’s choice” of God’s Austria very often. One has to imagine how the procedure is going: If you want a red-and-white red card, you have to logically prove that he has the qualification, he has to be able to German, he has to prove an apartment, he has to prove a job. Have fun looking for an apartment as long as it doesn't have a job. Now he has a contract that may then be introduced in a procedure of approval, and on this basis he is looking for an apartment he may need if the procedure goes well. But if the procedure doesn't go well, he doesn't need the apartment at all. So a landlord who also has the patience to wait fifteen weeks, until the possible tenant may come or not and then may be able to pay, you have to find one. At that time, he must also, when he has entered into the lease, prefer the rent. It's not that easy at all. If the district administration authority is at the end of its process, the act will go to the regional AMS. And now, far too late, the AMS mills – and of course you can't personally do anything for that, Commissioner of the Interior, I know that already – begin to grind, now is only beginning to look for if there is a labour force on the Austrian labour market that can take over this position. The long procedure is only one element of this matter. This is easier, faster and more unbureaucratic in other countries of immigration. Of course, for such international mobile professionals, what they can earn is also essential. There are again international comparisons relevant. But the oppressive tax rate to which this Federal Government is responsible makes it unattractive for people who can choose to come to Austria. You think about it three times. Then: Whether he works in Vienna or in Zurich, makes a difference in several respects, especially a monetary one. But we are not even able to keep those third-country nationals in Austria who we have trained at our universities and who are already here. Less than every fifth of them remains. Clear: The Minister of Social Affairs disputes that we have a problem there, and he refers to EU internal migration. However, contrary to all the demands made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, it can be seen from the figures of Statistics Austria that Austria loses more highly qualified forces to foreign countries than so migrates. For this we have a positive migration balance in the less well-qualified segment. Assigned: The average qualification of immigrants is still higher than the average qualification of the Austrians who are here. But there's more going on. The industry needs these workers, who decide against Austria on the basis of conditions that our government is responsible for. We are not actively bringing the right labour force to Austria, we need not less immigration, but more. We need more qualifications. The red and white red card could be useful. You just have to want!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16550	Mrs Federal Minister Mag has spoken. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16571	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to address Mr Loacker, my predecessor, and to note here that the introduction of the Red and White Red Card was undoubtedly a milestone in the Austrian immigration policy. They know that we have thus established a criteria-led system for qualified immigration, where the economy in particular needs to be based on national economic criteria. This requires clarity, transparency and, above all, information, and we have done so with the red and white red card. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is important to see that the red and white red card is much better suited to the needs in Austria than its predecessor model. Why do I say that? - Because the numbers speak a very clear language. It has doubled the number of immigrants compared to 2010. While in 2010 there were still 610 branch permits for key workers, there were already 1,500 in 2012 due to the introduction of the red and white red card. In 2012, 1 500 red-white red-red cards were issued. That means we're on a very, very good way. I admit, the system is not yet perfect, every system can be improved, especially as regards needs, and that certainly our march. If you have been dealing with this matter in detail, you have been able to find that we have already made an improvement at the beginning of 2013 by making it possible that the application for the red-and-white red card is also made by the employer in the country. This is therefore very practical and leads to the process being accelerated and, above all, simplified. I can say to your suggestion or criticism of the adaptation: I have always stressed that I am ready for a discussion on the opening of the red-and-white red card. It means that the circle of applicants should also include Bachelor's graduates and graduates and can also be discussed about the reduction of the income limit. If you have read the government programme carefully, you will know that there is written confirmation that we are working on a further development of the Red and White Red Card – but of course, with the involvement of all those concerned, the Social Minister and, of course, with the involvement of all the social partners. The great challenge – and you're perfectly right – is, of course, in the performance, because the better the performance works, the more acceptance there is a red-white red card. That is why we are in close coordination with all the authorities on the part of the BMI, primarily with the magistrate in Vienna and with the economy, where it is important to permanently improve these processes. There has been a great deal of progress, and we have also received positive feedback from the economy. It is especially important to me that the information about the red-and-white red card can also be accessed via the Internet portal. And the success is right: Over 700 000 accesses have already been registered. That is to say, we have created an effective instrument for qualified immigration. Of course, it is also necessary to align it in practice, depending on the needs. What I do not want to leave unanswered, or do not want to be left in the room, are your accusations, which you, Mr Loacker, have raised to me, I would have denied you the information. You know that there is also a shared responsibility for the red-and-white red card. In any case, it is true that you have received all the facts and data available to me from the Interior. At the Red and White Red Card, as you will certainly know, especially the Social Ministers, the Countries, say: the District Headships, and the AMS a great responsibility. The statistics on their activity lie with these bodies. In other words, I cannot give you any information regarding the rejection or the professional branches for which the red-and-white red card has been issued, because I do not have it at my disposal. I emphasize: I would ask you, in the future, to distance yourself from such regulations! Of course, it is always important for me to give the honourable Member all the information, because I attach importance to living up to transparency as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16636	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who are now speaking is 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16660	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly look into the past, in the debate during the legislative process, when we introduced this red and white red card. It was clear to us at the time, when we negotiated this, that the Red and White Red Card will certainly be a success story, in the knowledge – we have already said that in the discussion at the time, and the Federal Minister has just carried it out, and we have even written it into the government programme – that we must further develop this success story. But we don't get over one: We are here in the middle of a field of tension, because when we had this discussion, it was, as I can remember, called – although not by the first speaker today, but again and again – that: Now you're getting more foreigners to the country! It went up and down all the areas. You all, ladies and gentlemen, certainly know these discussions. We have had one goal or one in mind: that we want to see exactly what the Austrian economy needs. I can go to all this discus- It's a very good reminder. We have tried to put it in such a way that we – and this has always been held before us – have argued that we have immigration exclusively through the asylum rail and that we do not then have the appropriate qualified workers for the economy, depending on whether it is about professional positions. That is why the discussion was difficult at the time. In reality, we have only tried to find a solution with the social partners – all at the negotiating table – where we say: No matter if technicians, no matter which professional group, where the need is, we will see that the red and white red card will be issued! A central point is that, in the implementation of this red-and-white red card, we need to change some of the responsibilities that the Federal Minister referred to earlier. Maybe we'll succeed, we just need to try it once. However, as a learned Austrian and as an expert in the Austrian federal constitution, I must say that there are certain responsibilities that must be observed, which we have had to take note of again and again in some foreign law negotiations, but also in the introduction of the red-and-white red card. I don't want to repeat all of this, but it's true. The reality looks like this: In one area, responsibility lies with the Ministry of the Interior. And when we have the debate on foreign employment with social politicians, everyone knows where that belongs. We know exactly what's going on in the field office. We know exactly what the countries are responsible for as far as the establishment is concerned. Making yourself here and giving Blablabla of itself, although you know where the bras are responsible and how the execution is going is not a goal. There would have to be a principle discussion on the Austrian federal constitution with regard to Article 2. At some point, that must be said. We have already had a agenda item today, where I said, as an Austrian learnt, we know that we have to rely on our constitution and on the realities. Nevertheless, I am still convinced that the Red and White Red Card, because it is a good establishment in the interests of the Austrian economy, in the interests of those ladies and gentlemen who want to come to us and work with us, is, above all, because it can be regulated much easier for their family members to be with us than by all other legal instruments. You have to say that, too. So also from the side of humanity, from the humanitarian side, this is also a milestone. That is why I would invite you if we treat such a central question with such a cross-sectional competence – and there we have a huge cross-sectional competence – to really discuss seriously, and not to make ourselves here and to give Blablabla by criticizing what does not fit. That makes it too easy. We really need to discuss it with all those involved and those who I do not want to call now, in a relevant way, as we have already brought it together in many areas: What are we going on? How do we come to another, fully faster solution? We have nothing against what we have already demonstrated, because in the coalition negotiations we have said that we really want this, and that has already been written into the government programme. I can only say to my group: Welcome to everyone! Let's try to negotiate this! Let's try to improve it! The two government groups or government parties already have this as a declaration of will in their direction. This is the first time that the Commission has been able to take action in this area. We just need to do more. It's all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16729	The next item is Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16751	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'd like to pick up a little more and say, Austria has always been a country of immigration. That's what we're confessing. Our society is also changing. We get older and fewer and fewer children. This, of course, also has a serious impact on the society as a whole and thus on the labour market. We need qualified staff there. Let's keep looking back! We are celebrating this 50 years of recruitment agreements between Austria and Turkey. That is to say, 50 years ago we had the need to bring people into our country who are building the economy together with us. Many came back then. Today we see the need to bring qualified employees into the country. The Red and White Red Card is an important step in regulating this qualified immigration. In addition to combating the shortage of skilled workers in the country, which we naturally need to look at – keywords: School system reform, better image of teaching, more women in technical professions – we also need a targeted strategy in the field of qualified migration and integration towards abroad. The companies say in three quarters that the shortage of skilled workers is one of the biggest barriers to economic development for their own business success. West Europe needs 45 million additional workers by 2030. This means that it is up to all countries to see that there is a qualification – I say it again, because it is also my main task: Education, education and education! – but it is also important to look at the fact that workers, through their special skills, meet demand in those countries where this is necessary. This red-white red card is built on three pillars. On the one hand, the highly qualified, the high potentials, as one can say, on the specialists in the occupations and on professionals who are regarded as key professionals, both in the self-employed and in the self-employed, as well as in the graduates of national universities, on the other. Of course, it is necessary – and this has also been addressed by you, Mrs Minister – to have some regulations and a certain need for enlargement and re-examination. Indeed, the government is already in a positive position in its government programme, so that we – and this is a very important concern for us – can keep the students here, above all. Too many of us are well educated here, they use our systems, they use free access, but also the economic advantage of studying here in Austria, and then leave us again or have to leave us because the regulations are not sufficient. We have a special concern from the economy, namely to give Bachelor students the opportunity to stay in the country on the basis of the red and white red card. At present, it is far too few to make use of it. It is therefore necessary, from our point of view, to enable these young people. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the AVG, the procedure at eight weeks or two months is much shorter than in the AVG – this is very To highlight positively – that, on the other hand, we notice in actual execution, especially in the examination of the AMS, which has test functions and tasks here, there or there. So last year in Vienna, I turned to the competent magistrates department and city councillor in order to achieve improvements in this test procedure. I assume that we will succeed. Let me therefore briefly summarize our proposals for further development. The Red and White Red Card is to be opened for graduates who come from the Bachelor's studies. The duration of the procedure against the AVG is an advantage of the red and white red card. The review of income limits may have to be discussed there or there. I think there is also a willingness to talk with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16806	The next speaker to speak was Dr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16827	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Well, we have a question at the initiative of the NEOS, of which we have heard: We need more immigration in Austria. – Also a certain degree of orientation for the choose of the indexes on the next Sunday! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We now have a question here – the Federal Minister has meant the Red and White Red Card, it is always mentioned the Red and White Red Card Plus, which is apparently the success model if you look at the figures here. Only those are not the ones we absolutely need, but these are the ones that the economy needs rather less. This is in the context of the family move, in particular of those who have long come to Austria because of other titles, especially asylum seekers' status and the like. We're talking about the red and white red card now. The Red-White Red-Card Plus has not yet mentioned anyone in this context. Good, and what do we hear? – An immigration, an immigration debate! In these best of the best to come, we still know the keywords: These are the Indian computer technicians who come to us in Horden. There are also other qualified persons. I would ask you to keep in mind one thing in this debate: This is not about EU citizens. These are not the ones, but it is about relatives, as it is technically so beautiful, from third countries that are to come to us. There are now, sapperlot, these annoying procedures that take so long! I have to say that one thing I like to do in the course of a process: that everything is really checked that foreign documents are also checked for their authenticity. I also like one thing: that the labour market service, the AMS, whose advocates are not God's liberals in everything and everyone, but still checks whether there is no Austrian unemployed for the division for which we get these best from abroad – I mean by the figures, a success story looks different – that there is no Austrian unemployed who could fill this job better. We are already in the opinion: First, let's see if we can meet the needs of the domestic market. To do this, the AMS simply offers the necessary warranty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we don't want – and that's what some people in the economy are going to be – is that we say: Let us be our unemployed, especially if they have come a little over the years since they were born, and let us get some young cheap ones for that! We hear again that we have the income limit of €2,000 – here we are ready to talk, also from the economy – may be able to push down to 1,500 €. This is not where Spreu is separated from wheat, but here are really those taken that we are to receive an immigration free letter: Scientists, infirmaries, key workers and now also the Bachelor who is to come. We're just pushing one thing out: Austrians are being pushed away from the labour market! We do not even succeed in keeping the Austrian graduates of the various universities with us. Whether the doctors are, are the educators, they look all in Switzerland and Germany, because the conditions are better there. In the end, this is also the reason why so few of the third countries use this great and strict system of the red-and-white red card. You say that in Austria it is not enough to pay for me to come here with my qualification, because I am not interested in coming here with this tax and tax rate. Other countries in the EU are much more interesting. Finally, one thing, as the question has always come here: We have fewer and fewer children, and the question that arises is: Why do we not make a proper family policy that there will again be more Austrian children, who will then be trained in these professions as skilled workers, which are so urgently needed, once again?- Oh, my God! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is actually the true background, which is the problem behind it: Whether we have children in Austria or not, it doesn't matter if these children get a corresponding education in Austria! If they get them, then they should go abroad, because we then get ourselves in the interests of the economy on the one hand and in the interest of the parties who support immigration, in order to exchange the electoral people, corresponding persons from abroad. No, we liberals say: We need a family policy that this situation does not occur at all. We need a training policy that makes our children the best minds in Austria. And then, long then, let's see who we're taking from abroad. If the Greens are already talking about the Canadian immigration model: Well, a family needs to be able to immigrate to Canada, about € 80,000 to €90,000 on the high edge, especially in order to prevent the time of unemployment and to provide for the return flight. This is the Canadian immigration model that the Greens are now telling us that they want to approach. Have fun with it!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16910	Next word: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16931	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “How many applications for a red and white red card () have been submitted so far?” said the first question. – The answer: ‘Similar statistics shall not be conducted.’ Don't worry, the Federal Minister doesn't say: I don't have these numbers, because I'm not responsible for this, but she says: ‘Similar statistics shall not be conducted.’ “How many applications for a red and white red card () have so far been rejected?” said another question. – The answer: ‘Similar statistics shall not be conducted.’ “What were the most common reasons for refusing applications for a red and white red card?” was the next question. – The Minister's answer: ‘Similar statistics shall not be conducted.’ “How long is it on average until an application for a red and white red card () has been processed and the respective procedure is completed?” – The Minister’s reply: ‘Similar statistics shall not be conducted.’ Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Three years ago you decided on this so-called success model red-white red card with the votes of red and black. They have celebrated this as a major turning point in immigration policy and thus themselves. Three years later, you officially admit it: They actually raise as good as nothing, because that simply doesn't interest you. It is obviously not just you, but also the Ministry of Labour, because you have already decided on your alleged success model. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, we presented a criteria-led immigration model in 2006. We've been thinking a lot because for years we've criticized this pointless quota model that's been ringing: Hundreds of seats, and the hundredth has just had bad luck, no matter what he can, what he has or what he brings. We have made many thoughts and presented our own immigration model – yes, a criteria-led model. This federal government has not only needed five years to copy this criterion-led model, but it has also copied it so badly that this model does not work at all, actually not to this day. If you do not suffer from amnesia, you will remember that you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, said here three years ago in the decision of this red-and-white red card, you expect 8 000 applications or 8 000 red-and-white red cards each year. Among the few things you're surprisingly uplifting, for example, is the number for the year 2012 that around 1,600 red-and-white red cards have been issued. How many were really requested, by whom exactly, with what qualifications and why they were rejected, you simply don't interest and grippingly. I must already be surprised that a so-called success model – which you have taken from and said quite different figures – is a turning point in migration policy, now we are doing quite different, namely criteria, and so many well-qualified people will come to our country – that this model becomes a flop and that you simply don't care about it. I think for this simple reason: because you never wanted qualified people to come to Austria! Because for more than 20 years, you have been making migration policy according to the taste of the liberals. [[Abg. Höbart: Think about the trainees!]] Because you believe that voters can win or not lose. The opposite is the case! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Also with this model, which you have copied badly, which until today does not work, in which you close both eyes very firmly, answer parliamentary questions cynically and also add black on white: We just don't care about that, we don't raise it all. We don't want to know why the red and white red card, which is said to be such a success model, doesn't work. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also of the SPÖ! That's a bankruptcy statement. At last think about it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16978	Next word: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e16999	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the red and white red card has its right, you can say that quite clearly. We know – it is not a secret – that we have a shortage of skilled workers in Austria, and that is what we must face for a well-functioning economy. Now I am right in one point to Mr Rosenkranz, namely that he says: First of all, we need to see that we get our workers here. That is, we need to see that we have a good training so that young people can learn something, so that they can get into a good profession, make a good training, and then get out as a professional. - That's one. But if we cannot cover this with our own staff – let us say so – then of course we have to look beyond the borders and make the country of Austria attractive there. We from the Stronach team are for a controlled migration of skilled workers; that is, we want skilled workers to move. As far as unqualified immigration is concerned, we have enough of it, and I believe that there are restrictive measures to ensure that Austria does not become an unqualified immigration country, so that only here the social system is exploited. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can also recover something from the Minister's request In connection with the Red and White Red Card in certain areas, which means that the problem raised by Mr Loacker – with these students who have to leave after six months, if they do not get a job here – is a little more appropriate. But I also see this as a way of ensuring that we can't cover the potential of our own Austrian students. Here I already believe that “Austria first” must be clearly defined. These 2 000 € gross, which a student or ex-student will have to earn, are fine for me. One can discuss the height, but 2 000 € gross are not so much, and with a completed study one should earn it in a reasonable job as well. I cannot support the extension from six months to one year, because those who are so well trained should be able to get a job in half a year accordingly. If he is a well-trained and a good professional of foreign origin, he already has a job offer when he takes care of it before he completes his studies. You should keep that in mind once. Ladies and gentlemen! I would perhaps like to focus on where we really have the wrong professions. These are not just those Bachelor's students who have been addressed by NEOS here, but we have 24 disability professions according to Statistics 2013. It is part of this – and now you listen to me, there are not many student professions in it – the cutters, the turners, technicians/engineers mechanical engineering, roof deckers, technicians/diplom engineer Strong current technology, welders/snow burners, Bautablelers. Then we continue with the electrical installer and mechanic, agricultural engineer, technician/engineer power plant engineering, technician/diplom engineer mechanical engineering, pipe installer and mechanic, chamberer, technician mechanical engineering, locker, construction and furniture tableler, technician/engineer in data processing, technicians in heavy power technology, diploma nurses and graduate nurses, special technicians/engineer, floor managers, tool, cutting and punching machines, wood machinery workers and painters. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should see that we are training our youth so well that we can cover these professions with our own young people, with our own experts. We need to get in here in the school system because it's happening there. If you speak to a teaching firm today when the teacher says he no longer employs apprentices, because they can't write or read or calculate German, then it's tremendously upsetting the system, ladies and gentlemen! If we do the homework there, then we do not need to look up or discuss this red-white red card in the future, because then the topic is done by itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17053	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17075	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! If you're talking about success, I think it's very cynical. Mrs Korun has already mentioned this: Originally, the goal was to issue almost 8,000 red-and-white red-red cards a year. Since 2011, we have a total of 5 120. So that can't be a success, because the goal was a wrong one. If you have addressed this objective at the time and we do not achieve it, then it is certainly not a success. The question is: If you can't do so many statistics here and you can't answer these questions, then I can also evaluate the whole concept hard, because I don't know where it's going. That's quite clear: I don't have the numbers, so I can't look at that. But what's actually much more relevant to the whole story is that we wouldn't even need the numbers, because you also referred to it yourself, where the mistakes are and where things don't work with the red-and-white red card. The problem is – we have already heard this in all the speeches – that it is in the final effect of the coalition partner. The SPÖ doesn't want the union to explicitly not. A few weeks ago, Mr Muchitsch explained very well at a first reading why he can't do that and why he can't do it. The problem is: Mrs Minister, you said you would like to, and it is in the government programme – only, we have to do it sometime! That's the question. What is so cynical about the whole story is that the regulations are so absurd that are contained in this legislative text. We have the search period of a total of six months, including this period of almost eight weeks, the processing period. The problem is just: The processing usually takes just under 15 weeks. That is, more than half of the time they are actually looking for, this whole process takes. If that's not a law that goes completely in the wrong direction and can't be a success either, I wonder what else. Try to find a suitable job in these not even just three months, with which you also get a corresponding income! There's not even three months for that. What I always find most bizarre – and you have already said, you can discuss about the Bachelor; but I don't understand, you can't really discuss this at all –: We have this Bachelor since the Bologna reform in fact every degree programme, and now he is not in the law! I've been looking at how many degree studies I've had before – that's one of the criteria you have to achieve that you have to have a final degree – we still have in Austria. These are Jus, Catholic theology and pharmacy. If the aim was to keep students, third-country nationals who are studying in Austria only from these three disciplines, that is all right. But I don't think that was the goal. But then something is wrong with this law! We leave people – please? – Mr Rosenkranz, that can be already, but it is now. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bologna is not a sacred cow!]] We like to discuss Bologna, we can do that, but at the moment it is just that. So we have people in Austria studying, third-country nationals. They do a Bachelor, which is a full degree, and then we tell them: Please, go home again, because with a bachelor, you can't stay here. The only way they can come here and possibly stay there after that is to study the diploma or to go beyond that. So we obviously only want people who come here to study Jus, Catholic theology and pharmacy. What is even more absurd – Mr Hagen has mentioned this; now he is not in the hall, I believe – is the thing with the income thresholds you have to reach. It is actually so that that does not correspond to reality. Bachelor's degree graduates earn about €1,600 when they are finished, even diploma graduates €1,725. This was a study by the University of Vienna. And then we write that they have to earn about €2,000. So the law is not right in the back and in the front, and it's bizarre that we're still standing here and saying: Let's discuss it, maybe we should change it once, and so on. The most absurd thing about the whole thing is that these regulations do not only make sense in the back and in front, they also cost a lot of money. Instead of looking forward to people coming to us, studying here, then staying here, bringing in their knowledge, and paying back the costs of their studies over years over taxes, we send them back home. That is to say, all these regulations are not just illogical, they are human absurd, they are also absolutely stupid in economic terms.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17114	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:22:54]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17136	I take the negotiations on the 5th. Agenda item again. The next item on the agenda is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17160	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act, in short BMSVG: What is the content of the present legislative amendment? – The proposed amendment of the BMSVG allows financial market supervision to transfer an investment community to another pension fund by decision. What's the meaning of this thing? – According to § 26(1) of the BMSVG, the administrative costs for all contributors of an investment community would have to be the same. In the event of transfer of assets from an investment group to another pension fund, it must now enter into all the contracts of the previous cash registers, taking on almost an overall legal succession. This does not allow the investment community to be integrated into the taking-over cash account at different administrative costs. It is therefore necessary to ensure that two such investment communities are paralleled. So that is the objective of the law, namely to be able to have two independent communities together. And the result, ladies and gentlemen? What is the more or less technical correction for which, however, there are some advantages? – On the one hand, the beneficiaries have the opportunity – essentially consumers, but also self-employed – to remain in their previous contracts, but at the same time customers also have the opportunity to change the contract in agreement. This ultimately means more choice for the customers of the pension fund and is therefore to be welcomed. For the companies themselves, i.e. for the pension funds, the change in the law offers the opportunity to do much easier in the resolution, i.e. in the administration. So this is also positive. Finally, this change of law tends to create an increase in competition between the pension funds. As we all know, competition is a very important element in a performance-oriented society. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17202	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17224	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We also fire an amendment to the Insurance Supervision Act, the Solvency II Regulation. This supervisory regime for insurance and reinsurance undertakings is used to ensure that insurance undertakings are able to settle their capital matters – almost Basel III for insurance companies. This government template aims to prepare companies for the conversion and to establish a legal basis for the application of the guidelines by the FMA. The special rules on own resources are intended for insurance undertakings to be able to fulfil their obligations under the contracts at any time. This is an essential protection for the customers. ==References====External links== On 1 July 2014 the company will be obliged to make these preparations in effect so that they will enter into force from 1 July 2014. January 2016 can meet the requirements of the Solvency II Directive. This amendment of the Insurance Supervision Act also regulates which undertakings are responsible for the preparation within the framework of an insurance group. In turn, the FMA is required to comply with certain guidelines for the preparation of approval procedures and to monitor the preparation of undertakings. The main features of these Solvency II Directives are three pillars: The first pillar is a quantitative one. These are quantitative requirements, asset valuation and liabilities at time and the calculation of technical provisions. These are solvency capital requirements and the minimum capital requirement and rules on eligible own resources and on capital investment rules. The second pillar concerns qualitative requirements and supervisory rules. The powers of the supervisory authorities shall be regulated and supervisory review procedures established. The third pillar concerns disclosure and market transparency through standardised reporting requirements. The obligation to publish a report on solvency and financial situation will enable the supervisory authority to obtain the information necessary for its purposes and, on the other hand, to increase market discipline and transparency. With this innovation, we create an essential prerequisite for a crisis-proof insurance industry and increase customer protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17282	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please. [[Abg. Steinbichler is not in the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Fekter: Steinbichler's speech is absolutely essential anyway!]] Next, Mr Magistrate. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17320	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! At 6.30 p.m. to talk about the Insurance Supervisory Act and the occupational employees' and self-employed pension funds, of course, is not quite easy, but I would like to say a few words about it. This law is an article law in two articles in which the insurance industry is treated differently, with two very different objectives. On the one hand, it is about the development of a supervisory regime in the insurance sector, on the other hand, at the pension funds, to the possibility of transferring the stock of insurance services so that, in the event of an emergency, the possibility of the special assets of an insurer can be transferred to another. Why is this law important? – We have preparations for Solvency II. That is, one and a half years before this law actually enters into force, insurance companies are being trained in such a way that they can comply with the legal provisions in one and a half years. This is also important because there is a complete restructuring in the insurance sector, with for the first time a risk-oriented approach being used in the assessment, similar to Basel III. It is important that companies now receive this information so that they do not make any misinvestments, because it takes certain conversion times to prepare for Solvency II. On the other hand, the expectations of the FMA towards the insurance undertakings are also set out. Also in the second article, the Precaution Law, it is a legal necessity. It is very important that the special assets that employees and entrepreneurs have paid can also be transferred in case of an emergency. It is not an occasion legislation, but it is already being provided for the security of these funds in advance. That is why I am seeking approval of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17371	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17392	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Today, in addition to the Insurance Supervision Act, which my previous speaker has referred to, we also deal with the Employment and Self-Employed Pension Act. Mr Zakostelsky has already explained that this is a very technical matter. We should know, however, that in these cash offices or pension funds, € 1 billion is paid annually, which is then available to be charged. Currently, about €6 billion of contributions are managed by the individual pension funds. These have to establish an investment group according to the law on the charge of the payments. The law also states that there can be several investment communities in a pension fund, but this can only be carried out through FMA regulation and under consultation of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. It is true that there is currently no regulation on this. This law has only been made forward-looking, and Mr Zakostelsky has already said that administrative costs must always be the same when it comes to mergers. Of course, there could be problems in transfers that are planned or necessary at some point, or the possibilities would be limited. That is why this law now provides for the possibility of having a number of investment communities in a pension fund. I believe that this law has a positive effect on workers. It has already been mentioned that this also has advantages for those who deposit there and then get the amount out. The conditions for this are in any case created. This law makes it clear, so that you know exactly what the approach is. There is a clear distinction, and we will also be able to see clearly in the FMA's annual report what happens to the money and how it is controlled.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17430	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17451	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The previous speakers have already mentioned that this directive is an adaptation which is certainly useful, but from our side, nationally, is not so influential anyway. We have seen in times of crisis that this kind of thing makes sense, of course, also because this law, with these novelles, can be adopted. This is certainly a sensible measure. It is also an example of the fact that EU directives are not always used in general, that there are very useful directives. But the opposite is also the case, as we have already experienced at the beginning of the current hour on health. I can replicate this. What I missed most is that there was no talk in this house about health about nutrition at all. The basis of health was not mentioned except in the comments of the Minister on salting. That's too little for me! It is already the raw materials that we consume, which ultimately have very important effects. The same applies, if we are already talking about EU directives, on the recurring issue of all senseless food and animal transport across the continents in order to achieve the greatest possible profits for the groups. In this other direction, therefore, the request, particularly addressed to the future Members of the EU, that we, as the Austrian state, make sense in order to create restrictions and restrictions on the protection of our consumers in this area in Novell, so that food is finally marked with a clear designation of origin and transport routes become comprehensible. We have already dealt with the agenda item on product piracy today. I do not know in what way this is to be classified if we make Austrian quality products from Polish, Czech raw materials. This is not an economy, and we want a fair partnership. [[Abg. Tamandl: I think you're making the wrong speech!]] – Mrs Colleague, I may mention that. I also listen to your speeches very carefully, and sometimes you can say something in between. It is not just about the innovation on the insurance industry, it is not only the innovation that is now being decided, it is also true for all other areas, please very much. It is essential that we see more the whole, of course, on the basis of such individual divisions, of such novels in smaller areas. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In that sense, I should like to ask that we also decide in the sense of our citizens in the case of other novels that come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17496	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognize the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 100 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law at third reading too, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:38:10]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (99 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Security Police Act (SPG-Novelle 2014) (134 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17553	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17580	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Well, security police, the issue of combating crime, even at major sporting events, is certainly an interesting topic. It is this time the focus is on the fact that acts of racism, in particular the existence of acts of hatred, as well as the existence of acts of national socialist re-activism, are explicitly taken into consideration. These are very high objectives, but the Austrian Data Protection Council has expressed its concern, not only because of these offences. This is enough, for what happens to the data found for example at a sports stadium because of these police measures? The criticism of the relevant body of law is actually to be seen in a comprehensive way: It is criticized that name, date of birth, address of residence, information on the reason and circumstances of the intervention are subsequently communicated to the Austrian Football Federation and even the corresponding image material after a reasoned request. Where appropriate, information on the outcome of the criminal proceedings shall also be passed on to the Austrian Football Federation. Of course, it has a reason that an organizer who makes football games for a smaller or larger number of people would like to ban a stadium. But why, for example, is only the Austrian football club inside? There are also questions from the Ice Hockey Association, and other sports clubs may also be interested. Only – and this is often a problem with ads and what happens then – can it be that under the Security Police Act suspicious moments – because the information on the ground – and the circumstances of intervention are announced, and there can only be a conviction if necessary. That is to say, first of all, we have a suspicion that you get a picture, then you see if you know it in the sector at all and the like, and maybe it won't be condemned at all. – These are points which the Data Protection Council strongly criticises, observes and, in fact, rejects. In fact, it is generally a question of drawing this interface between the executive and a private – because something else is not the Austrian Football League – and why this private person has a special position by getting into possession of data, such as the image material that was filmed there. It is probably within the scope of data protection provisions – including the question of erasures or similar – to anyone that he may also make film material himself. Even in the case of a sports broadcast through the Austrian radio, there is always a swivel of the TV camera in to seers or similar. So there is the picture material. That is, we are here in a field of tension between the legitimate desire for information on criminal offences and – because of the fact that one can say in advance there, this is an event where as executive we closely observe – including the prevention of criminal offences – a legitimate, high goal, especially if young people are present at sporting events – and in the diametric contrast to what data protection means. In this field of tension, we are not really far. This Security Police Act required actual corrections in terms of data protection law. We therefore believe that this request is not ready for decision today. Therefore, I would like to make the request for referral back – which should also be made in writing – to the Committee on Internal Affairs of this Government template 99 of the supplements. Mrs Bundesminister, I know that you are very sensitive to data protection issues. I know this from other committee meetings from the previous legislative period. It might mean a hint of you to your government parties – this referral request would certainly serve the cause.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17629	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17650	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz has put forward some important arguments here. Introducing only one sentence: They have made a significant statement, namely why the Freedom Party in the Committee on the bill has given its assent and suddenly sees a problem today. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Because we have failed – unlike you!]] Whatever you have not explained is – and the Data Protection Council has certainly submitted critical comments in its opinion – for example the issue of individual case review. However, this has been explicitly taken into account in the law, and in total, the opinion of the Data Protection Council on the submission is positive. Since we are dealing with this amendment to the Security Police Act today, I would also like to address the incidents of last Saturday. I think there is a consensus here in the house that our police must protect the constitutional right to freedom of assembly and that in There is no doubt that the Austrian police must also help break through this assembly right. It is already remarkable – and I would like to address the Greens in particular – that there have been accusations from your Vienna clubman, which are actually incredible. The police were accused of having mistreated a woman in such a way that she – and she had been pregnant – would have lost a child through this official act. This is, of course, a very massive accusation, so I would like to inform you of what has actually happened. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That was already in the newspaper!]] A group of people was found in a business location in the 8th century. Join the district in the event of material damage, then one of these participants indicated that they would feel pain in the abdomen. As a result, she was sent to hospital by police officers. Due to these allegations, namely that the woman had lost a child by the official acts, the order of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna resulted in the seizure of the medical trial. In view of the findings currently in force, it can be clearly established that the person concerned did not have a pregnancy at the time of the official act. So it would be time for the Greens to apologize and take back these accusations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This is really immense – and I have no sympathy for the demonstrators who come from a certain corner, but what went out of violence came from the other corner, ladies and gentlemen, that came from the corner of it. [[Abg. That's how it is!]] There must be a consensus in this House that we reject all forms of violence, together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I find it disappointing that the Green Group is unable to jump over its own shadow, and here it is quite clear that it was a false statement, we take it back and we apologise in this connection also to the police, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is incredible that in the interests of our constitution, officials hold their heads for us every day in the truest sense of the word and are then treated in such a way by parliamentarians from the Vienna Parliament. That's unacceptable! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] And that the Security Police Act, which we have today as a novel, in particular, naturally focuses on questions of hatred and wrongdoing against the Prohibition Act, also shows the very clear position of our wife's Minister of the Interior and, hopefully, also this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17731	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17763	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon said there must be a fundamental consensus here that we reject violence. There is a fundamental consensus that violence is not a means of achieving political objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need a basic consensus that where the police are possibly excessive, it is the responsibility of policy to clarify and ensure that such a thing does not happen again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, it is your job and in your responsibility, if there are allegations here that police use was excessive to follow it, and without prejudice to look at what is right and what is wrong, and to consider the second thing: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: From whom did they come, the accusations?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Prince]] What are legal measures to help the rule of law to break through? And if your only response to the demand that we need a marking obligation for those who behave excessively in use, is that is abuse and would open the slander door and gate, then I find that at least as great a scandal as anyone here does not want to distance himself from violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] There is no such thing in the Green Group. Mrs Federal Minister, there is a labelling obligation in Italy, France, Belgium, parts of Great Britain, parts of Germany, the United States. For you, the nuisance is – these are developed states of the law that value it when it comes to incidents to unravel what has happened. This applies to all sides. I demand that you, as an interior minister, also fulfil your duty here and not issue a persil license for everyone. You know that. That's unacceptable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this security police law novel deals with many questions. Some have already been tailor-made. I want to take out that part that is particularly important to us. This is the part that deals with DNA investigations. You know what the background of this new law is. The background to the legislative innovation is that the Constitutional Court has repealed the rules on DNA investigations. The Constitutional Court has said that, in the case of sensitive data, it is necessary to draw very close limits from the fundamental points of view. And he then further criticised the fact that the problem so far existed, that DNA investigations were already possible in the case of micro-delicacies and that not according to the severity of the crime has been distinguished. This has led to the abolition, because of course this was not in accordance with the human rights convention. Parliament is now trying to repair the removal of the Constitutional Court by defining when DNA investigations are possible and now removing a limit by saying that these investigations are possible in cases of criminal offences affecting a criminal framework of one year. From then on, the identification service DNA data determination should be possible. The crucial question that arises is: Does this new border now meet the requirements of the Constitutional Court? – These are, of course, exciting issues that are discussed in a passionate and constitutional manner. I found it exciting what the Constitutional Service said. The Constitutional Service is not a green sub-organisation, but a section of the Federal Chancellery. And the Constitutional Service has said that even today's decision-making is not constitutional, because it goes back into the area of the bagatella offences and criteria are missing in the prognosis decisions when data are to be stored or deleted. – That is to say, the Constitutional Court has repealed a law, and you submit another law that may be unconstitutional again. Another point raised in the Committee was the issue of deletion. We have discussed this, and you, Mrs Federal Minister, have kindly told your official to explain it. And I admit that your official is right in that the issue of erasure is not a constitutional problem – therefore the Constitutional Court has not removed this provision either – but it is a practical problem. The Committee notes that the deletion should occur if it is necessary in accordance with general provisions of the Data Protection Act. This is when the client recognizes that the storage is inadmissible. But the problem is: When does the client – the police – recognize that a DNA data storage is inadmissible? – Since, in practice, the DNA database is not constantly examined after that, whether storage is permitted or not, that means that one cannot actually comply with this requirement of the data protection law. This is a practical misunderstanding, not a constitutional one. This is a practical abuse because handling within the meaning of the DSG is not possible even with the best of will. Explain to me how the DSG is to be implemented in this sensitive area? – And therefore we did not come back from the Constitutional Service, section of the Federal Chancellery, the proposal that at least after five years a cancellation should be made. I think this is appropriate and I also believe that this would be a useful solution. Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, in this sense we see today's law skeptical and will reject it. As far as labelling is concerned, I think you should jump over your shadow. I think you have an interest that the police are acting under the rule of law and that you, too, if it – and I say, if it is! – an excessive exercise of office, can find out who it was and can then lead to consequences. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17844	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17866	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now listened carefully to my previous speaker and had the impression that he is a bit inconvenient. I have known the demand for a long time, and we are putting it into practice now by removing the hatreds from the sports arenas. I think this is a broad consensus in our Republic. – So you refuse to do so. It is not necessarily necessary, Mr Steinhauser, that you listen, only one thing I note in all clarity: I firmly refuse to condemn the police with Bausch and Bogen. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Did you listen to me?]] I firmly reject that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No breach of an Austrian legal system automatically legalizes that another group violates our legal system. I'm sorry, but It's over. We don't need to discuss this any further. I also say, when it comes to whether I am on the side of the Austrians or on the sides of right-wing breakers, that I am on the side of the Austrians who have the right to be protected by this Republic with its facilities. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is why we unfortunately need the necessary craftsmanship for the police. Just as we need it for the judges, as we need it for the prosecutors, we also need it for the police, because otherwise, in today's technical age, we can't actually keep up with those who commit criminal acts. And if we talk about burglary so often – I don't even want to talk about blood and serious crimes – and everyone says: For God's sake, we have to do something about it everywhere!, but then we don't give the police a modern craftsmanship at all, then it's a shame if we address it and discuss it at all. I am personally glad that we now also have a new regulation regarding the DNA question. These are highly judicial issues, but I believe that now, as far as the criminal framework of one year is concerned, it is quite reasonable. I'm glad that we're taking care of the hate stories on our sports grounds, because there's nothing wrong with the hatred. I want an Austrian family with their children to go to the sports ground without any problems. I think there is a broad consensus in this Republic. What no one addresses – and this is interesting – despite the PV choice – I do not know where the entire staff representatives are, otherwise everything is so important – is the regulation of the issue of specialized training. Here we clarify e-training, i.e. executive training or legal training, which are now also many specialised training courses so that the necessary occupations can also be carried out. All staff representatives would have to: Bravo!, yell, but it doesn't even find it worth one of the effort to address that, that's also interesting. So much to the law. What's important to me is: Last year, the Federal Government determined the protection of endangered infrastructure. What do we do quickly in the committee responsible? . So we see that the whole thing also makes sense that we fill it with life, that it can also be administered and that we get these provisions into the Security Police Act. Everything with an eye in good cooperation – that is, also with the military areas. That's not even worth a sentence for you. Sometimes I think that we decide the most advanced laws exclusively in the interest and protection of the Austrians – and here only polemized, there is no single sentence that something good is done here for our people. I believe that the population will also have an opinion on this. I can only invite you: Think it over again and agree, it's a good law!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17911	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e17933	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Otto Pendl, a word of appreciation, very gladly. We largely agree with and support the changes that are now being planned. Nevertheless, a word of criticism must also be possible. [[Abg. Pendl: I'm critical!]] - Wonderful. By the way, I have the big yellow button with you. Something happened in the last few hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to refer to the point of DNA analysis, which Albert Steinhauser has already performed wonderfully. The Constitutional Court asked for correction. DNA investigations should only be carried out in the case of judicially punishable intentional actions threatened with at least one year imprisonment. This is, of course, an improvement in this sense. - Wonderful, the button is here. [[In the direction of the Abg. Pendl.]] – However, among other things, and in order to complement what Mr Steinhauser has done, there is no differentiation between the type of crime. The second point: The maximum storage time of this data is set too long, as a storage will be up to the complete 80. ==References== This is much, much too long, even with regard to the future use of these data, which we do not know how to make. The main criticism however concerns the deletion or handling of these data. A permanent review of whether this data base is still appropriate in the case in question is impracticable in practice. The easy way here would be to automatically delete the data after a certain period of time. In individual cases, it may still be decided to keep these data on, namely, in the sense of necessary safety considerations. Even if the Data Protection Act and the cancellation rules apply here, it is worth considering whether special deletion rules would be more meaningful. However, an essential other point that appears through the corrections to the Security Police Act in connection with the DNA analysis is that something is expressed here that I would call the State's data collection passion. Unfortunately, this data collection passion is not limited to the most necessary in many cases. We also had the same case in the storage of data. Without reason, data were stored by citizens with a view to clarifying serious crimes, but to suspect millions of people in general, in order to find virtually nothing by this storage of data, was also interpreted as excess by the European Court of Justice. The implementation in Austria is waiting for it, requests from NEOS and the Greens have already been submitted. And we hope that this will also apply in the near future. When it comes to personal data to the protection of privacy, it must be the highest premise of the state to protect access to this data, especially in an area where the production of this data is unwittingly happening and cannot be controlled by people. This is the case with DNA tracks, connection data and motion data. We cannot make a self-responsible decision about what data we produce. It is always easier to collect, process and store this data automatically. In order to combat crime, we can do the same – that is good – but it must be done with the necessary care. And this care has not been sufficiently applied to the current changes to the Security Police Act. That is why we propose that the points raised earlier be deepened once more. We have now learned in the committees as new Members of Parliament how this works. It is explained in a word that this request is actually very good in the matter, but still has to mature for some time. As a result, I asked the committee to postpone the government proposal and I was very surprised that the government parties did not agree to this adjournment. We can now correct this in plenary. In this sense, we also support Mr Rosenkranz's request for referral, although for other reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18001	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18022	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This amendment not only regulates the data protection directives, but is also about other things that are also worth mentioning. On the one hand, I would like to highlight the possibility of using trained executives in the field of law-enforcement. [[Abg. Pendl: Finally one who also!]] I think this is an important step. We used to have executive officers who carried out activities for which they had to do many years of training and did very well, but then because of the police reform they were no longer allowed to do so. That's gonna be fixed now. I think that's a reasonable thing. This is a reasonable decision that saves costs and the police really brings something. Another issue I would like to address is the approach to racistally motivated behaviour in large-scale sporting events. I might just want to cut this a little bit. It is a subject that can be clearly discussed. Any kind of extremism must be rejected, and if sporting events are abused, then everything must be done to prevent the abuse of the playing field for right, left or any other extremism. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to return to the subject raised earlier by Mr Amon: the use of this demonstration with these false attacks. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as a former army official, work seven years in a unit of operations in Vorarlberg, now police officer, believe to know what I am talking about. I was at many, I think, hundreds of demonstrations. We had at least one demonstration every weekend, from time to time two to three, during the week still demonstrations, so I was there. Have demonstrated, mostly Kurdish organisations, left-wing organizations and very rarely even right organizations. And now I'm allowed to report to you from practice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] The fact is that the Kurdish demonstrations have often come into conflict, but also in the left demonstrations. And at the left demonstrations, I can speak to one. When a rally was over there, then the trash had to go up, so these people got up. That's where it looked! That's what caused cost. And I have already suggested at that time that these costs are charged that the general public must not come up for the chaotic conditions. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now let me come back to the current conditions. Mr. Jeannée of the “Kronen Zeitung” has mentioned this wonderfully – you can read it, buy yourself a – with these supposed pregnant women. [[the speaker shall keep the said newspaper up to date]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also need to speak towards the Greens. That's where you've condemned again. You have pre-condemned the police. They were not present at such demonstrations – perhaps on the other hand, that may be – but I have experienced it. I was attacked several times in police service, I was injured, and I know what I'm talking about. I know this left-wing violence is violent. Mr. Mahrer explains in the tomorrow newspaper that in 2013 the police had to secure 263 left marches, none of right groups. €7.5 million has caused this in costs that might otherwise be better used for the police, and also for the security of the citizens who pay taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, what has hit me particularly - after these supposedly pregnant women who slander the police who commit a crime, namely by perceiving an act threatened with punishment, that is an official offence: This Ali A., student, Jus-Student, has claimed to the ORF that he had been unjustly beaten by the police. Here you can see him on a picture of the stone throw. [[The speaker holds a new edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are your left chaots! These are your chaots that we will not support! The police pay any protection we can offer to her, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that we, the Parliament, should stand together. In the speech of Mr Amon, when he said that we should act against this violence, demonstration force, with shame that Greens and NEOS did not complain. You support this! That's not going to happen! [[Abg. Steinhauser: Are you now for the labelling obligation? Yes or no?]] [[Call the ÖVP: Prohibition of disguise!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We know that it's hard for the police that we're totally under-occupied that it's not quite right with the financial things. That is why I am taking up something from the Greens, but not what you, Mr Steinhauser, want, but I am taking up the following: Mrs Bundesminister, my appeal: You know my call, my request: We urgently need our own executive service law that provides real security for the population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18123	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18144	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly address the issues relating to the novel to the SPG and briefly reflect what we can achieve through this novelle. For the first time, we are able to act more effectively against racistly motivated behavior. Everyone, of course, asks the question: Well, how do we do that? We just need to look into the past. You know that, in recent years, we have put in place a comprehensive package of measures to combat violence at sporting events. I remember that it is possible to set up a so-called security zone at major events, depending on the risk situation; I think it is possible to take a direction; or I think that we have just built or installed the Hooligan file. It is precisely through all these measures that we have succeeded in massively reducing the number of ads. That is why we now also want to extend these powers of the security authorities in the case of violent offences, namely, racism and the Prohibition Act. That is to say, in this case too, there should be the right of withdrawal, the prohibition of entry, the notification requirement, and, of course, the entry into the Hooligan file. In this context, it is very important to me that the ÖFB and the Bundesliga will make it easier to impose a stadium ban in the future. We have also regulated this with this novel, namely that it is also 100 percent correct in terms of data protection, because we have also complied with all the objections of the Data Protection Commission. Secondly, the SPG-Novelle concerns the protection of critical infrastructure. With this innovation, we have also included the protection of critical infrastructure in the security police field of our civil servants. Why? – Because we know that the protection of critical infrastructure is more necessary today than ever, because it can result in lasting damage to the entire society especially when critical infrastructure is disrupted. Thirdly, also an important point, which we have repaired: The rules for DNA investigation are clearly regulated by the SPG novelle. This means that DNA investigations will only be allowed in future in criminal proceedings with a criminal dimension of at least one year. That is, you see, the SPG Novelle brings important and necessary changes that help us to maintain our high level of security that we can take action against racistly motivated behavior. I think there's a consensus here right now in this house. But let me also say one word or another about the demonstration that you mentioned, which took place on Saturday. Yes, of course, it is not the task and responsibility of the police to protect the freedom of assembly, the right to demonstrate. Of course, the police do. And believe me, you just need to talk to a lot of cops out there, nothing's better to the policeman than that every demonstration goes peacefully over the stage. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Exactly!]] It is the greatest wish of every single policeman that everyone come home healthy again, that every demonstration is peaceful. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] That is why it is also a matter of course that every police officer should first seek dialogue, then of course try to de-escalize, but if all of this does not help if the demonstrators attack aggressiveness and violence on the part of the demonstrators, then he is obliged to act. And believe me, I'm sorry that after every demonstration, especially by the Greens, a culprit was found, namely the police. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Exactly!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] That is why I also believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that demonstrations do not run aggressively in the future, without violence and brutality. That is why there is the idea of discussing individual video surveillance at demonstrations here, in order to reduce this aggressiveness. We know from reports from other EU countries that the use of such video technology leads to a decline in aggressiveness, namely aggressiveness of demonstrators, i.e. aggressiveness towards our police officers. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Prohibition of disguise!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Labelling obligation?]] I would ask you to discuss this with us comprehensively and intensively over the next few weeks and months, so that demonstrations can continue peacefully in the future and are not exposed to aggressiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18233	Now comes Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18254	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear fellow citizens! I commit myself to maintaining the spirit of sportiness. – That’s what it’s called in the Olympic oath. The spirit of sportiness is central to Fair Play, and Fair Play also includes the rejection of violence and aggression. Misbehavior is sanctioned. Athletes are subject to very clear rules, and viewers on the ranks should also have these rules. The Security Police Act provides for comprehensive measures to combat violence at major sporting events. When someone goes to the stadium, he wants to get close to the sport – adults, families, young people. That's an experience that's close to being infected, that gives positive energy. Violence and aggression prevent this great effect. Against this violence, the Security Police Act has created good measures. The Federal Minister has listed the measures. In short: the possibility of turning away from the security area, the risk address and also the reporting requirement – in this case, violent persons must report at events. This is modern police work in implementation. It is now extended to practices which are clearly covered by the Prohibition Act and the crime of the offence. That's good. Because nowhere, not in the stages, do we want this kind of aggression. Hetification and hatreds have nothing to do with fair play and sports spirit at all. They're not compatible. My thanks as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament go to all the police who, using their health, are willing to secure us secure framework conditions for these great events, which we can then experience. Another up-to-date need has been identified: the protection of critical infrastructure. These include water supply, energy supply, public transport, hospitals and, of course, the facilities that are no longer to be thought away, namely information technology. Disorders that are caused there have damage that massively affect the framework conditions of our lives and, of course, can also lead to huge economic damage. I am talking about framework conditions that are extremely necessary for us both private and in the economy. The safety authorities should now be responsible for this particular protection, and that is a good thing. Because our authorities, our police have had good experience in recent years, and with the modernisation and adaptation and extension of these responsibilities, we can take the experience of police intervention into practice. The Security Police Act plays an essential role in our rule of law. It begs the police into our rule of law and thus creates the conditions for the work of our police officers. And they create our security as citizens. I expressly welcome the further development of the current novelle. It makes our rule of law even stronger, our lives even more secure and the sport even more fair. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18313	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18334	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment to the Security Police Act includes two major areas. One area concerns the decision of the Constitutional Court and its concerns regarding DNA investigations. This made it necessary to evaluate § 67 Security Police Act. The second major area is the legal provisions which have already been addressed concerning events: that one can first act against the violence of fans, second concerning the transmission of data to the Austrian Football Federation and the Austrian Football League, which is important in order to achieve a ban on participation also at sports venues; and third, on the protection of critical infrastructure against so-called computer crime. The focus of my speech today will be on DNA investigations, which are being innovationd by the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Mr Steinhauser, you have expressed very comprehensive concerns about the deletion. I would like to point out that in the legal provisions it is implemented that everyone who has been treated for recognition must be made aware in writing of how long the data will be stored and the possibilities available to him for deletion. There is also a possibility on its own – in accordance with § 73 – to delete this data, especially if there is no more suspicion that a intentional action threatened with judicial punishment has been committed by that person. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as a legislator, we have to take a narrow lead: On the one hand, of course, we want to ensure high data protection standards, on the other hand, we have to provide for the executive but also a armor to enable it to carry out its tasks. Our executive does excellent work, but we have the responsibility to provide the necessary armor. In my opinion – I have been working as a police officer and a criminal officer for many years – it is very important to make some comments here on changing the proposal on DNA investigations. On the one hand, it makes sense to make a re-adjustment, on the other hand, we have to remember that we have two ways of comparing the crime scene with possible suspects: These are the recognition service treatment and the DNA investigation. We are now taking a more stringent decision, but I am going to make a request to the Minister today so that we can explain to what extent this objection, such as this intensification of DNA investigation, could also be a disadvantage in the investigation activities. We also need to take these questions into account, because our task as federal legislator is to ensure the protection of persons in Austria from or their information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18376	Mr Mag. Gerstl is the next speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18398	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Some of today's speeches lead me to say that it would be time for us to end the victim-culpture conversion. I believe that it would also be a task for this House to say a very clear thank you to our police officers here who protect the health, life and property of our fellow citizens – a thank you to our police who use their lives, a thank you for being there when all political groups make demonstrations, a thank you for being there when they know it can get dangerous. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Team Stronach]] It is precisely because, when police are in use, they face unwarranted accusations in the future, the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, as I believe, is very important, namely the new system, which has been applied in the UK for several years now, but has already been applied in other countries in the meantime, that cameras on the uniform can be used to film their own actions. This ensures that our police officers can clearly and clearly prove to all people and to the justice how properly they deal with difficult and dangerous situations. And this ensures that justice can act faster in the future, that some demonstrators no longer make accusations that are not justified, and oppose procedures. That shortens the procedures. This is in the interests of the police and in the interests of the general public, our rule of law. And I would like to say a very special thank you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18448	The last speaker in this debate was Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18469	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this security police law novelle is one important thing to me: Families and children should participate more and more in sports, active and passive. But it can only succeed if no violence is in play. Unfortunately, violence is often in play at football courts – not only at football courts; one is thinking of the Austrian storm Valentin Grubeck, who was already threatened and affected by violence. This has nothing to do with sports at all, but I think that's just brutal and stupid. It is important, therefore, that this law provides for the possibility, in the case of major sporting events, to include, in addition to violence, the crime of hatred and of the prohibition law. Mr. Rosenkranz, the cooperation with the security authorities and the Austrian Football League and with the Austrian Football League has the reason that even the clubs are then able to act faster and faster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] So far, the police have only been able to transmit the name, address, reason of the intervention and the outcome of the criminal proceedings; now images are also transmitted, and that is the immediate, rapid dimension where they can then react. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: only on suspicion! Only on suspicion, without condemnation!]] - Not on suspicion! [[Intervening calls from MEPs Neubauer, Belakovich-Jenewein and Walter Rosenkranz.]] These measures, which are now being taken, are in order to ensure that stadium bans can be pronounced. I am not interested in being in a stadium with my children – this is true for all families with children – where they are threatened by violence or where they are threatened by legal radicals. [[Call:Or left radicals! Jusos]] The sport should simply become a family pleasure again, it should be fun and motivation for families, children and young people, and there is nothing to seek violence and hatred.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18532	Mr Rosenkranz has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18554	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'll do it very briefly. Mrs Lueger has just said that it is a matter of ensuring that children are protected from danger. – Yes, but that also means one thing: that she did not properly understand the text of the law. It is also about simply sending materials to the ÖFB from unproven suspicions and the like. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That is, only on suspicion and without a concrete conviction or otherwise, people are “delivered” to the ÖFB and the Bundesliga – under quotation marks – and nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that a Member of this House did not now understand the law itself before the vote explains the referral request per se.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18596	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Abg. Jarolim: I think that was!]] First of all, we are voting on Mr Rosenkranz's request to refer the matter back to the Committee on Internal Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Krainer: But that's very hard!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 99 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority of the third reading. [[19:29:52]] 7. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 78/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the immediate stop of the East opening on the labour market (112 d.e.) 8. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 188/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on transparency and quality assurance in AMS courses (113d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18678	We come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18705	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Dear Colleagues! It is now essentially two requests from the Freedom Party. A request concerns the immediate stop of the east opening on the labour market. This request is, of course, obsolete in its actuality, because it was put before Christmas, at a time when there was no opening for Bulgaria and Romania. Unfortunately, however, God’s answers to the questions we have received in recent weeks show that this request still has some topicality. Mr Federal Minister, don't come back to me with the excuse, it's actually not because we're already inside! – “It’s not possible!” – there is no such thing as politics! It must be the policy's right to change the framework in such a way that it is right. You yourself only gave us the figures on unemployment in the construction industry a few weeks ago in an answer to a question. In the last five years there have been 9 200 construction workers, i.e. construction workers with Austrian citizenship, who have become unemployed. At the same time, you have a plus of more than 11 000 construction workers who have found employment in Austria during the same period. I know you're gonna be back and say there's no such causal connection. – Yes, of course, there is him, because what would happen if we didn’t have the 11 000 here? – Then, of course, the 9 000 people would have a job immediately. To say here, we're making the causal contexts, that's just not true, and you know that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even your union sees this as it is, Minister of State. So you shouldn't always be stupid when you're, that's not yours! You also know that this is the case, but of course you do not want to get upset with the EU either. We are of the opinion that we still need to close the labour market at least in the sector today, and the construction industry is a good example for this, but even there you stand deaf. They don't even try, because you obviously don't care whether Austrians are in unemployment or not. We go to the highest level of unemployment – you know that very well; the numbers are worrying, that is known to you, that is known to all of us here – and you do not even try to improve this situation in any way. I would therefore ask you to consider how you could now try something to gain access for workers from these new Eastern EU countries, since 1. January is open, as it were, to close again afterwards, or to try to reduce this inflow, at least in some areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second request concerns transparency and quality assurance in the AMS courses. I have already mentioned it, we have the highest unemployment rate, but we also have nearly 80 000 people in training. Unfortunately, with these trainings God happens that unemployed people come into training programmes that are not suitable. Now you're going to tell us again that this is about 4 percent of all training courses, and everything will be done so well now. – They are very happy to talk about everything, it is just not quite awkward that the AMS Vienna has said on its own that it will search through. You have a very bad witness, Mr. Federal Minister, in the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” on the 15th. ==References== This Austrian path with the training courses was precisely questioned. They have always said that we are model boys in Europe for all numbers of unemployed. – That may be already; but what tricks you use there, you never tell us about it. And this too is part of transparency. This is not just a question of knowing who is doing these trainings, who is doing these courses, who are then these rulers, who are so freely commissioned by the national business agencies. There are calls for tender in the rarest cases; everything goes under the hand, no one knows who is coming to the train. And people are largely dissatisfied with the courses, that must be mentioned. The “New Zurich Newspaper” – and it has relatively little to do with FPÖ; it is also not our party newspaper, I would like to say just now – has found that you are quite, quite massively tricking that, for example, you are pressing down the long-term unemployed from 57 000 to 6 700 by sending people back to a course in time, in a training measure that lasts 28 days, because then it all starts to count from the beginning. And so in Austria, for example, we have hardly any long-term unemployed. However, this newspaper article goes on, and that is not quite awkward, because it refers to the Nuremberg Institute for Labour Market and Vocational Research. They always tell us that the whole world is looking at us and everyone here is getting the suggestions, including Germany, and precisely because of this, this institute in Nuremberg has looked at the Austrian system more closely. It says that these trainings have become “a reasonable and riskless business” for providers, “three quarters” are freely awarded” and that the AMS course providers have very close links to local policy. “It” – and this goes on to say here – “has formed a political felt that is difficult to break from outside.” – This is what the Zurich newspaper says because of a study from Germany that has looked at this system very closely. [[Call the SPÖ:Zürcher!]] Mr Federal Minister, therefore, the request concerning transparency and quality assurance for AMS courses is more up-to-date than ever, for I do not think that this is particularly commendable, neither for Austria nor for you as the Minister responsible for it; this is a sounding ear fig, I would say. I would therefore ask you to consider whether you are not going to jump over your shadows, take a stand for transparency and quality assurance at the AMS courses and give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18753	Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18774	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would have liked to address my words to Mr Kickl of the FPÖ today, but he has not been in the hall since the morning hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] But one thing has to be left to him: Nothing is as honest as his untruths. The FPÖ gives itself as a representative of the little ones and is nothing but distortors in the big, fear images are their artwork. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Was that a word-white now?]] I'm allowed to quote: “FPÖ works with half-truths”, “fears and emotionalizes, seeks and finds scapegoats”, as here at our EU neighbours. [[New call for tender Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Call to the FPÖ: What is this for a reading hour?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call to the FPÖ:Free speech would be something beautiful, but there is no such thing!]] And then we're going to go on: “When the public critiques, the liberals play the victim role, speak of ‘good people’ and ‘left-wing’ media, and have a conspiracy theory for everything and everyone. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: AMS courses! It's about quality assurance! That's not right!]] According to the motto: ‘All against the FPÖ – ‘Many enemies’, much honor’. You can calm down, they're not my words, I've quoted. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] You will find these words in the book “Blue Speaking”, which deals with your communication style, the communication style of your party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:So your communication style is also unique!]] They're trying to frighten the people, and they're fearing you like a fire. If you only understood a hint of European politics, you would not make a pa-nik and create images of moving Eastern peoples, without any professional background. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But no! That is what the Federal Minister answered in an answer to a question!]] The truth is, the storm has disappeared. The truth is, the economic conditions are globally bad. The truth is that Austria has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the EU, so that experts from other countries also come to us to learn from us. [[New call for tender Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] The truth is that we have done everything, even though the FPÖ has left us the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic. - That's the truth. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That is why I do not want to go any further on the FPÖ's request for an immediate stop to East opening on the labour market. The accession agreements with Romania and Bulgaria set a maximum transitional period for access to the labour market and freedom to provide services, as in the case of EU enlargement in 2004. This arrangement was negotiated under the Black and Blue Government in 2005 in the Treaty of Luxembourg – and now the FPÖ wants to stop this agreement. [[call to the FPÖ.]] It's nothing but populist methods you use here. They speak of transparency and do not adhere to it. [[Call the FPÖ:Transparency!]] You can really save the rest of your half-truths! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Thank you on behalf of all Austrians who now have to stand up for the FPÖ Debakel! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Investigation Committee!]] We'd like to do away with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18967	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e18988	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On the two FPÖ applications: I would first like to address those in terms of transparency and quality assurance at AMS courses. We only had an almost identical request in the last plenary session, you know we agreed. That is to say, we support this approach, although, as I said, I would put it a little differently or clearly different in the quality of criticism than Mrs. Jenewein did. It is quite clear that we Greens too say that the AMS needs more transparency and also needs to do more in the direction of quality assurance. They all hear the criticism that comes from the job seekers, from the companies, from the trainers and even from the employees of the AMS. That's just a fact. However, as Members of Parliament, I cannot even examine this criticism, precisely because of the lack of transparency. So I think in order to be able to fulfil our task as a Member of Parliament, we need to get more insight into the AMS, last Finally, to meet and control the requirement for quality assurance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, our approval will receive this request this time. The second FPÖ application with regard to the immediate stop of the eastern opening of the labour market should be fully assessed. I don't want to worry about it now. European law is not possible at all, because we have done so again and again, but I should like to say clearly that we are Greens with Europe and we are also on the open labour market. However, I do not want to hide the fact that the whole development has brought us not only opportunities, but also problems. I think you have to say that. What problems do I mean? – It is, I believe, known to all of us that foreign companies, but also Austrian companies, employ people from Eastern Europe on worst terms, pay the worst. These jobs take place largely on the brink of legality or entirely in the illegal field, and I am absolutely of the opinion that belongs to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The way to stop this is not, however, in my opinion, to take ten steps back and say that these people belong back behind their borders, because then they will only be able to work completely illegally in Austria. This is not a solution, but we Greens call for an offensive reform of the wage and social dumping law. I know there are negotiations on this, but that is absolutely necessary. The loopholes belong closed, and the punishments belong up. This also requires human increases in the control bodies. In our opinion, we also need the minimum wage guaranteed by law, i.e. double: once guarantee the minimum wage and then secure the wage and social dumping law. We Greens want a solidarity Europe, that is our goal, that is our way. I would like to say very briefly on the request of the Stronach team something which has not yet been submitted but will be brought in. In principle, we support the approach to support regional value added, that the best bidder principle should also be taken into account in the award process. I am also very supportive of what Mr Muchich is currently trying to do in the form of a campaign. However, as the request of the Stronach team is formulated, it is, in our opinion, simply wrong. This is a matter which should be settled at European level. We have no national means to do this. So we support the proposal, but unfortunately we cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19051	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19073	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing almost every committee with a FPÖ proposal entitled ‘Soforter Stopping the East opening on the labour market’. [[Abg. New builder: Here you see how diligent we are!]] This is legitimate, Mr Neubauer, but I do not think that the arguments are more correct. And above all: There will always be decisive facts in this discussion. There is a picture of how Romanians and Bulgarians would flood Austria and all jobs would be taken away more or less. That's just not right, and it's going to spread sand into the eyes with this kind of populism. We know exactly, and you know that, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, border controls are still being carried out against Romanians and Bulgarians because these countries do not belong to the Schengen area. And after three months, when a Romanian or a Bulgarian is here in Austria, either a job or an income has to be proved. This is the legal situation in force, and it is therefore completely exaggerated and exaggerated, as you argue here in this context. But we know this not only in the area of the labour market, we also know these chain e-mails, which have been in place for five years now, where the so-called Romanian-pension is concerned – these are always reaching us through detours – where it is about Romanians coming to us and then – that has something to do with your philosophy, that has something to do with how foreign policy is being misused here from my point of view to create moods against foreign people. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This has nothing to do with this now!]] And that is something that should be pointed out once, ladies and gentlemen, because this cannot be in the sense of a proper political debate. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] And as far as the Romanian Pension is concerned, five years ago we jointly set out rules here that the food point must be here in Austria. Yes, we even go so far that we no longer transfer these pensions, this compensation allowance, but that they are delivered by postmen. So he'll have to be there, or he won't get it. And again and again it's agitated. [[Abg. New builder: It's not about this!]] I know, Mr Neubauer, that it is in the context of Romania and Bulgaria, and you do not tire of spreading these issues over and over again. Now to the labour market: Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you even go out here and really explain to the people the labour market situation? – Yes, we have high unemployment, but we still have the lowest in the European Union. [[Abg. New builder: That doesn't help our people either!]] We have the lowest unemployment rate of 4.9%. I would like to thank you for giving the speech to the Council of Ministers, which is presented monthly by the Minister of Social Affairs of Hundstorfer. This is the responsibility of you, too, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to interpret the facts and facts as they really are, and to see not only Romania and Bulgaria, but also to the foreigners who are unemployed, we have quite a lot from other countries, for example from Germany. But you don't like to hear that, because the Germans are not foreigners, that's paid off when something like this is said in the FPÖ. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the meantime, more people from Germany are working in Austria than Austrians in Germany. That was ten, fifteen years ago inconceivable that this will occur once, but we now have the situation. A lot of foreign workers – and I would like to end by saying that, and perhaps you go a little bit in it – we have come to Austria: for gastronomy, for tourism, even for works that no one else has done, for example in quarries et cetera. So always just go here and look for scapegoats, because once unemployment rises for a few months, and then take foreign groups back My ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ, stop with this populism towards foreign groups! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Getting cheap labour, this is your access!]] We have needed them, and we still need them to be able to lead our labour market into a good future. Take the facts and facts as they are!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19192	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19213	Ladies and gentlemen! Our social state can only be financed if we have on the one hand a high employment rate and on the other hand many entrepreneurs who pay taxes that make profits.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19234	Please pay attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19250	You were just at the speaker's desk, I think you've had the opportunity to speak here. [[Abg. Wooker: Sorry!]] - Okay. I don't think time is such a good thing, though. If we have more than 400,000 people looking for a job, this should give us thought! On the other hand, we read daily in the media that companies lock up or companies remember to settle. It's a time we're worried about. Ladies and gentlemen! We are, of course, in international competition. Our industry stands with the labour force in international competition, and if we look at the average wage costs, then they are 36 percent higher in us than in the EU section. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] With normal wages, we are at €31.3 much higher than the EU cut at €23.7. The Send Directive offers a possible hole to deal with the whole issue and to work with social dumping here in Austria in full legal terms. In the Styria we have seen a few weeks ago that Hungarian companies who pay a gross wage of 800 € work here completely legally – in competition with our workers who now stand on the street or unfortunately have no job. There is also this with the ÖBB. At the ÖBB there was a caterer who employed people with 500 € gross over a personal leasing company. These people have worked on the Austrian labour market, speaking in Austria. This is a development that is completely legally covered by law. There is little we can do about it. But one area where we should really do something is the public sector, where it is about means of taxation. For example, when it comes to Parliament restructuring, which may take place in a few months, none of us will be interested in the fact that foreign workers with collective contracts and insurance abroad are working here and our workers have no job. That is why, in our view, it is absolutely important that we in the public sector find a way that not the cheapest bidder, but the best bidder comes to the train. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why I'm bringing you the following thanks. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19324	The application submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19385	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19406	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! Once again, the present proposal concerning the ‘Soforter Stopping of the East opening on the labour market’ clearly shows the world picture we are facing here, not only in terms of social policy, but also in terms of economic policy. We from NEOS do not want to kill Austrian society from the rest of the world. And if we have learned something in recent months and also from previous debates, then that it is a major problem of emigration that we are faced with, especially by qualified workers. Braindrain obviously takes care of itself also in Austria, and I believe that is no news for you either, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, that a successful economic location needs skilled workers. [[Abg. Wheelers: numbers, numbers!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On the one hand, we need to see that people stay here, and on the other hand we are trying to bring good and qualified workers to Austria, Mr. Colleague. - Correct? Good. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What Members of the FPÖ do not want to see true is that a common economic area also foresees and consists of a common labour market. [[Abg. Singer: “Prerequisite” would I say, would I?]] But we note that FPÖ actually wants to leave the European Union. That's all right, we take note of that. You can make the choice. [[Abg. New builder: This is nonsense! That's a nonsense!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, we see great benefits in the European Union and in a common internal market, in a common economic area, and, unlike you, we are not afraid to share these benefits with citizens. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: That's what we're leaving you!]] – Ah, you have determined what my name means! Congratulations, the Lord can be Slovenian. Mlinar means Müller. Thank you. [[Abg. Singer: I said we left it to you, but please!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Studies on the eastern opening of the labour market give us our opinion. A few facts about this: The employment trends forecasts for 2014 and 2015 are such that employment will continue to grow by a total of 17 000 workers. Although for 2014 and 2015, only 4 500
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19528	Sorry Please, Mrs Mlinar! I would like to point out that the colleague meant that he left you to do so. He didn't want to evade your name. That was a mistake. And I generally ask for more attention! Please, keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19549	We'll clear up what you're gonna leave me. Then I misunderstand you. Sorry! [[Abg. Singer: Don't do anything!]] So, as it is, Mr Cornelia Ecker has already explained before that the large masses of Romanians, Bulgarians and other peoples have not taken part in Austria, and this will probably also be taken note of by the FPÖ. On the other hand, the development of the eastern opening has led to the fact that gross domestic product, private consumption, the income of social security funds, tax revenue is positive. This is not despite, but because of and because of the opening of the labour market. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Economic areas and labour markets cannot be thought separately. We believe that the European Union is a great opportunity. The common economic area is a great opportunity. It is our job to benefit from these and to raise these potentials within the European Union. However, labour mobility needs to be increased. This is something that all of us have to do with. Thank you. Hvala lepa!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19592	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19613	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to do something about all the problems we have in the labour market, which is not to discuss away. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, if you here recommend that we have black jobs that we have wage and social dumping: Yes, of course there are problems, no question at all. Only I would You ask and ask to pay attention to two things: There is an Austrian client behind every black worker. There is an Austrian client behind each wage and social dumping case. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That doesn't make it any better!]] I would urge you to include this in your political argument. If you make fun of the work of the financial police, the local health fund, the BUAK experts, that's your problem. That's what you've done here today! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Neos representatives.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We did not make them ridiculous! That's not true!]] But I would also ask you to take account of 50 percent of administrative penalties under the wage and social dumping law concern Austrian companies. They have nothing to do with foreign companies, these are Austrian companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Karlsböck.]] – 50 percent of all criminal charges, yes, Doctor, it is. [[Abg. Karlsböck: And the remaining 50 percent?]] – Yes, but the 50 percent of Austrians belong here as well. But that doesn't happen in your argument. - Point one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: Your interpretation is that!]] Point two: If you have a problem with Europe here – this Europe, the European Parliament has finally brought it together after tough, laborious negotiations that we can now execute wage and social dumping administrative procedures across borders. That has not been the case so far. This is one of the most important points to make the directive waterproof, which is no question at all, and this has now been finally decided by the European Parliament. If you make yourself here today and claim that the currently in Austria 306 Bulgarian construction workers and 2 627 Romanian construction workers flood the Austrian labour market so that everything collapses, then I'm sorry. Don't be angry with me! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Can you please repeat the numbers? Again, please!]] These are the numbers of this day: 306 Bulgarians and 2 627 Romanians. That's all we have in the building area, that's all. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The illegals – now comes the next! How can a person be illegal if he has an Austrian client who gives him the hacks?- Oh, my God! And you should also take this into account in your political argument. You should take this into account once! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Why don't you do anything against the line on the?]] Austria is the only country to block such companies in the meantime. That's what we do in the meantime. We can only block them from public contracts, but in the meantime 13 companies are blocked, can no longer work here. – That’s just to make us do nothing. We're doing a lot. Wage and social dumping is refined. – We will do something because, of course, we still have the problem that allowances and additional fees cannot be examined at the moment. We'll do that. We show full solidarity with the activities of the construction workers. There is no question that the best bidder principle should be in the foreground – point 1 – and that wherever the public hand gives the order, it is also based on waterproof tenders that not one of the sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-one is suddenly. This must be written out waterproofly. That is why there is full solidarity with the construction workers, which is no question at all. I would like to talk to the second point of the negotiations, to the AMS courses, and I would like to ask again and ask you to take note of what the Board of Directors of the AMS has answered to the article and to the study of this Nuremberg Institute, Dr. Kopf of the “New Zurich Newspaper”. Point 1: The statistics of the long-term unemployed are not made by the AMS. We don't. These statistics come from Statistics Austria, WIFO, together with Eurostat, according to an international standard. We demonstrate the long-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed. That's what we're doing. That's what we're showing. If you read the study carefully from Nuremberg and quote it correctly – it is mis-quoted in the article; the right study author is a Dr. Bruno Kaltenborn, and it is about the Ramboll management – then you will read about a particularly good witness, among other things, in the target control of a developed Balanced Scorecard system. Now the course award is criticized, a felt is criticized. – Yes, the social partners are on the board of the AMS. Why are they on the board of the AMS? – Because when the AMS was founded 20 years ago – we celebrated the 20th anniversary this September – we said very consciously that the social partners are invited to join or operate the AMS. If one were to follow this very closely, one would also insist that there is a governance directive in the AMS for 20 years, according to which the social partners who sit on the board of directors have no right to vote in the event of certain forgivenesss, if they somehow only get into the smell, there might be something that a social partners may also be involved in. - So much to point one. Point two: Three-quarters of all training courses are open to the public, are awarded in accordance with the competition procedure, otherwise we would not have objected continuously, among other things, to the Federal Award Office. We still have a website, and I also like to invite you – I have already told you that the Court of Auditors may not always be in the right shape – to visit it. This website is called “www.lieferanzeiger.at”, and there is everything, all courses, all awards, there you can read everything. The AMS does not have to hide something, nor does it hide anything, but imposes it on the public. This can be read by any of us, “supplier.at”, there you can see everything. [[Abg. Honey: No, the evaluation reports are not!]] Once again: after competition awarding three quarters of all courses, you can understand that there. [[Abg. Honey: Yes, but not the evaluation reports!]] That's exactly what it's all about. For example, the fact that we have each student anonymized anonymized an evaluation of the courses should be known to you if you deal with the subject matter. If you think that, among other things, institutions such as Philips, institutions such as the abz*, institutions such as the Kapsch company are subject to a political felt, I would ask you to reconsider your argument, because these too are training providers for the AMS. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19777	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19799	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I can follow up on what the Federal Minister has said. For the application concerning quality assurance in AMS courses: Nice titles, yes, we also stand for quality, for best quality in job placement. However, if you look more closely, the application states: “The AMS () offers only unacceptable measures.” – Only! Let us take a look at the facts! It is true that the People's Procuratorate has criticized some of the abuses. As a result, there are already improvements, for example in the so-called activation courses. It is crucial that: What's the success? – The majority of courses lead to a new job. That's crucial. The fact is, half a million people found work last year. Think of the elderly, especially the elderly, it is particularly difficult to get back on the labour market! ==References== In January, almost 40 000 people found 50 + again a new job. - That's positive. This is a good development, which shows that advice and training make sense. I ask you not to misunderstand me. Every unemployed person, of course, is one too much, but let's also take courage on the elderly, let's not always say it doesn't make sense anyway, but let's see how many get a job again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The aim is to keep more people in employment, to activate rather than retire. Therefore, the AMS also has a new, major, important task, namely to say: What does it do if you can work a year longer? What does it do to make a re-training? Then how high is the pension? – This would be an important focus in the consultation. Another sentence on East opening: Let's take a look at the area of care. If we did not have caregivers from Eastern Europe in the care sector, we would have great problems. Is that what we want? - No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19856	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19877	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should really have this discussion about the opening of the labour market very seriously and very sensitively. In principle, I am very happy when there are companies and agricultural farms in Austria that can offer jobs to people. We also need to take a closer look at who can accomplish this work, this service and who is willing to do it. I believe that this is a very differentiated observation that, as with the AMS, certain work and services of domestic workers are no longer being fulfilled. We are experiencing more and more in the forestry sector, especially in agriculture, in the vegetable sector, in the wine sector, that there is too little labour, which also fulfils these services. I would therefore really warn against a demonization of zealous people who are willing to perform and integrate themselves, ladies and gentlemen! That's why I'm asking: Let us take the discussion seriously. It is not about social dumping, about wage dumping, it is also about fair pay – and it is also happening. I am not for free access, indiscriminately, without qualification, at all. This must be clearly regulated, and this is clearly regulated. But if we need employees, if we need service providers for our businesses, that is no question where they come from, whether from home or abroad or from Europe, wherever we are at home. Given the election on Sunday, ladies and gentlemen: I am a steirer, I am an Austrian, but also a European!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19915	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19936	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I have now listened very carefully to all the speakers, and I would like to point out that every speech contains something that corresponds to reality. I believe that this issue is really very serious. I would now like to express in very few sentences how I feel about Europe. Each one of you may know a cleaning power in a Vienna hotel, which comes from Poland, each one of you knows a tank station from Slovenia, who is doing his work here, each one of you knows a waiter from Germany on a hut that also does his work, and perhaps everyone knows a salesman in the Burgenland, whose use is equally necessary. One thing these people, these Europeans, have in common: They are registered in Austria, with Austrian companies, socially insured and pay their taxes here from the first day. That's Europe. Just as Europe is that currently 460 Austrian construction workers work in Stuttgart 21, but not because they are cheaper than the German construction worker, but because they are more qualified, better. But that this does not work everywhere – and that is why I would like to say it quite openly – many speakers have spoken here. In part, everyone is right, un- 100 per cent of the Social Minister is entitled to: The root of the evil is not the cheap labour force from abroad, who will be praised by Austrian labour intermediaries Austrian companies, so that Austrian companies are tempted to take the cheapest labour force to get public contracts, the root of the evil are the tendering procedures, are public tendering bodies that do not introduce quality criteria that are only based on the low-cost bidder and not on the best bidder principle. That's exactly where it's supposed to be. If 70 percent of Austrian employees – 32 percent of foreigners – in the construction industry depend on public procurement or public procurement, in public sectors, then we have to set up there. I would therefore really ask you to support the initiative that has started three trade unions – Rainer Wimmer, Wolfgang Katzian and my person – and a total of twelve federal unions of commerce. I would like to thank the social partners in advance. Christoph Leitl has sent all these proposals in review by the end of May. We also work on measures in the Chamber of Workers and at the ÖGB. We must succeed in getting from the cheapest bidder to the best bidder principle in public procurement, and much is done. Then a lot is done, that's exactly what it's all about. We need further measures in the area of wage and social dumping. I really appeal to our coalition partner, even in the case of wage and social dumping, to bring more movement with regard to equal pay to the same work at the same construction site. This includes not only the minimum wage, but also the fee. These are the most important measures, and all parties are invited to participate, to convince the public authorities and the issuing bodies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e19997	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 112 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Regional value added in the best bidder principle in the award of construction contracts for Austrian jobs’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 113 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:15:23]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 137/A(E) by Mr Mag. Helene Jarmer, colleagues in relation to blind dogs as a medical rehabilitation measure (114 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 19/A and to 19/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues on a law with which the ASVG (BGBl. No. 189/1955), as last amended by BGBl. I No. 187/2013, amended (115 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20089	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Doppler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20116	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A blind dog is not only a great help for people who are blinded or very visually impaired, but also a friend, a comrade for a person with such a fate. The social relationship between man and dog is an important prerequisite for a well-functioning driving force. Considering that a blind or severely visually impaired person is so much helped that he can give up other foreign aid, it would probably be high at the time that the costs are taken over to the full. What is possible in other countries should be possible in Austria too, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It would be very important for the blind dog to be recognized as a rehabilitation measure. This must also be feasible in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20143	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20165	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We had this request in plenary in March, and it did not actually change the situation. The updating of a blind dog does not constitute a measure of medical rehabilitation. It is regulated in health insurance in § 154a ASVG, which is why this request is also rejected by us. Furthermore, in March in the plenary session of the Keck of the National Council, it was explained in great detail what difficulties there are in the training of the dogs of the blind. On item 10 of the agenda, Mrs Mag. Schwentner, I would like to say that there is, of course, a very big problem here. With regard to the strained labour market situation, as we unfortunately find it today, it is precisely the weakest in society, which also have low qualifications or are physically impaired, which realistically hardly have any chance in our labour market. Yes, we are talking about over 30,000 people in Austria who have little chance of a job. However, the present proposal to make, as it were, a minimum contribution to attainable income does not solve this problem in practice, as this low income is hardly a reason for rejection. Rather, I think, we have found a very good instrument with the harshness regulation that we have decided on and which applies to over fifty years, that these people have finally received a reference protection. In practice, we see very well that, in these cases, the occupational and social court is finally granting a rehabilitation measure or a pension allowance. One thing this example also shows us very well: We must invest in youth and in training. I think that we are investing very much this week in the right way so that we can solve this problem from the base, so to speak, from the root. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20204	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20225	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, and also valued viewers in front of the television screens! Is the chapter Assistance Dogs End Today? I would like to invite you to get to know the term “assistence dog”. There are three subgroups: the blind guide dogs that support visually handicapped and blind people, the service dogs that support people with physical impairments, and signal dogs that help deaf and deaf people. All these dog species help people with disabilities to cope well with everyday life, to live a self-determined life. You know the UN conventions on human rights, and I would like to remind you of some of the points of the UN Convention. There is the right to self-determined life, the right to participation and the right to accessibility. – You know, we have already taken some positive steps here, in these rooms: It was unanimously requested that a working group be organised in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which deals with the topic of assistance dogs, but remains still until that date. There are no intermediate results, there are no obvious. I would like the two government parties to put an end to this standstill. I can very much help you in this regard. It is quite simple, and first of all, it needs the recognition of the assistance dogs as a rehabilitation measure, second, a central guide to which people can contact, where financial matters are also examined, and thirdly, clear cost statements and a cost takeover paper. – It’s quite simple: only these three things! In the sense of a self-determined life and equality, I would like these demands to be implemented as soon as possible and not to be postponed from year to year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20269	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20290	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the Ga- Lerie and in front of the TV screens! As we have already heard from the three previous speakers, it is about the request to recognize blind dogs as a medical rehabilitation measure. I think the most important thing about this issue is that we have enough well-trained dogs so that we can help people as well as they need these blind dogs, and I do not think it matters whether they are paid by the federal government and partly by the countries, or whether they are paid by the health insurance fund. The government, in particular the Federal Minister, has dealt very well with this issue, and we know that a new regulation on assistance dogs is taking place. There is a novel whose assessment, I think, has even been completed, through which there is also a change in the Federal Disability Act. It is important that the dogs have the best possible training, that they have the costs under control and that they are not determined somewhere, but that, as I said, you can simply look at what is necessary. Human beings have to be at the centre of attention so that they have the best possible support when they are needed, and I don't think it's so important from which place they're paid. We know this system works. As I said at the moment, the key is this: In the case of accidents at work or for work, it is paid by the federal government, in leisure time by the countries; if it has been an accident at work, the entire sum will be taken over by the federal government. This is an agreement of the countries with the Federation. I think this novelle and this new federal disability law is designed in such a way that we have the best quality in training the dogs and that the costs are under control and do not explode, as is the case there and there. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20335	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20357	Mr President. Mr. Minister, good evening! Dear viewers! I do not know, Mr President, I do not quite understand this, because you meant that you were right in content, Mr Vogt – now I do not know where he is, the colleague of the SPÖ who spoke before – ah, yeah! – Vogl, thank you; we don’t know each other yet. [[Abg. Vogl waving from its seat]] [[Abg. Elisabeth Hakel: Vogl!]] . While you give us the right to the content, the proposal we make through this proposal is not understandable to you. I don't know, it's just a fairer solution, as we would say, if the compensation allowance is used to calculate that, and not only 50 percent of the lowest possible income has to be lowered – that's our proposal. However, I would like to go back to what it is all about and what the point of the request is. We've been accompanying a gentleman for years now – and he's not the only one. They themselves have said that it is about 30,000 people who are “parked” in the AMS – under quotation marks – that simply do not come out of the cycle. And this gentleman, who is known to us, was a glassblower, camp worker, has no professional protection because he has not worked with professional protection, had a serious accident and has simply not been able to work for years. This Lord has been sent from Pontius to Pilate for years and probably also back. The PVA is said to have to be examined once; the PVA then says it has to be applied for re-training. Then he goes back to the AMS with the opinion, which shows that he is not in the right course. Then he sits back at the AMS, and then the whole thing starts from the front. – Now he was in this round. In other words, in the case of people who – in its case for 13 years – are running in the circle, one could say something in the sense of: Either there is a possibility to rehabilitate them and to make them healthy so that they can work again, or these people should be “left alone” – under quotation marks – and they should be given the opportunity to go to I-Pension. I would ask you to support us, because I have the impression that you know the situation very well. It simply needs a common solution for these thousands of people who are still hanging in this system and just don't get out of it, and then that would be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20402	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20424	Mr President. Mr Obernosterer and Mr Ing. Vogl have already said everything in terms of content, but when it comes to a dog, dog torfer must also talk. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] This is a beautiful name, and in English it is much more beautiful. Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently in the coalition with the amendment in the voting procedure, i.e. it will be in the Council of Ministers in about 14 days – perhaps it will be three weeks, but not longer – and you will then, I hope, decide here in the house even before the summer. This has to be done from the entire process, and then we have at least made a further gap and, above all, we have clearly defined the question of quality assurance measures, because, as has already been said, it is natural to ensure that this important instrument or this important establishment of the assistance dogs may not be a market where some believe: That's where we're making the golden cut, because that's not what it's all about. - That's the one point. The second point is that, of course, it is also quite clear, and I would like to ask you to understand that some of the points are those that concern that the countries also have a responsibility in this regard – knowing that in the extreme case, it is natural who it is. But the fact is, we cannot release the countries from their responsibilities either. The long speech short sense: The novelle is in the finale, the novelle is in the pipeline, and you will have it in the house as soon as possible, so I hope to agree to at least a high degree. As the motion for a resolution was unanimous, I hope that the amendment will be unanimous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20463	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Dr Franz spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20484	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues! We have this request, the Greens, the Greens. Thankfully reintroduced once again. He was rejected at the time; I regret it. I think it is good that the Greens have taken up this again, because this would at last be a really sensible and socially really targeted measure when you decide on the ad hoc. When it comes to exactly these cases, which Mrs Schwentner has just told us about, it is really extremely sad for a social state that disabled people are not included, but are thrown into their way as obstacles, which they cannot see in the truest sense of the word. I think we should just live the social state, be a social state and make it easy. I don't understand this long discussion – for months, for years. I looked at this on Parliament's homepage: Applications have already been submitted in 1998/1999! I think that this is really a witness of poverty for a country that calls itself a social state and which is also such, and I therefore ask you to accept this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20527	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 114 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 115 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:31:50]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Alev Korun, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship, BGBl. No. 311/1985, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 188/2013, amended (242/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20591	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20618	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to illustrate what we are planning with this request and why we have put forward this request so that the citizenship law is amended accordingly in this regard, I would like to read to you from the very personal letter of someone concerned in the truest sense of the word. I came from Brazil to Austria in 1990, i.e. 23 years ago – or now 24 years ago. Here I went to a German course at the beginning. Then there were exams in German and literature, history and geography to obtain the Austrian Matura. At the Conservatory of the City of Vienna I studied opera songs, and for several years I had a firm commitment to the Wiener Burgtheater, i.e., I had a real job relationship there. At some point my contract, like the other one, was no longer extended, and I became unemployed. As an artist, it has become almost impossible to get a job relationship today, and since I have studied nothing else and have become a little older, I only get jobs that don't pay what the government understands under secure living. Despite all the 24 years of residence in Austria, with the Matura and the degree, and all the years in which I worked as an employee, I am not allowed to become Austrian because I had no income secured for the government. A MA 35 employee told me in the face that I was – quote – not integrated professionally. She has not been interested in the fact that I have worked for more than three years, because professionally integrated is simply the one who has worked in the last three years. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! The Members of the Government Group will now say: No, we've changed the law anyway, that's what we've repaired anyway! – The fact is that alone educators – mostly with small “i” –, families with low incomes, even though they have been living here for years and decades, and last but not least 70 percent of Austrian workers – with small “i” – fail at these income limits which are still in our citizenship law. Today, 70 percent of Austrian workers would not get Austrian citizenship, would they not be native Austrians because they deserve simply and decisively too little under this law, and you have still not changed that, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, who are constantly talking about integration. And here is the case of someone who has done a great deal for the integration you mean, but who, after decades, may still not be an equal citizen of the country in which he has been living for 24 years. It's in our hand to change that. Let's do this together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20670	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20691	Mr President. High house! The case described by Mr Korun is a case-by-case example that limit values can cause human hardships. I therefore have sympathy for making necessary changes in this area. However, the fact is that two items on the agenda are later to be discussed by the FPÖ, and that it is therefore necessary to discuss intensively the issue of the basis for achieving Austrian citizenship, which must also include a secure livelihood. I would like to mention – indirectly addressed – that it was the SPÖ that filed into the novelle in 2013 that there are derogations for the disabled and permanently ill. In the next few weeks, we will not only look closely at the international examples, but, with regard to the agreement between all the political groups, that there should be a hearing in the Committee on the Interior, both of which have very detailed advice. I would just like to say that citizenship is a very high democratic asset. Without a doubt, it is not suitable for day-to-day polemics, and I would really ask that we bring a common solution here in a very objective discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20727	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20749	Mr President. Mrs Korun! Citizenship is truly a high legal asset, and from my point of view, it is absolutely right that such a legal asset can only be granted to someone who can also challenge his own life. I think that should be fundamental consensus. We have already made this much, much more flexible in the novelle 2013 and I believe that this is the case you have described, you might need to look at it again, because in this novel, it is precisely within it, that the income of the last six years is being used, so to speak, and that you have to calculate 36 months. That's why you might have to look at this in detail again. We have also improved this in so far as it has already been said by my previous speaker that there are exceptions there for people with disabilities and for people who are permanently ill. But I believe that if you read your request carefully, it contains a mistake or a false interpretation of citizenship from my point of view, because you are saying that the most important factor for integration is citizenship. From my point of view, the most important factor for integration is the learning of the German language, and then, at the end of successful integration, citizenship should stand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:That's how it is!]] Of course, as mentioned earlier, there is a hearing in the Committee on the Interior, where you can put all your demands in place, but in this form, as you have formulated the request, we will reject it. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20786	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20808	Mr President. High house! In fact, at this first reading on citizenship, we could make it easy, simply to refer to the agreement, in autumn in the Committee on the Interior, to discuss in detail the various requests and accesses of the political groups in an expert hearing. The fact is, however, that it is of course a subject that is worth getting closer to, even at a first reading. Let me try this by bringing a quote from an article entitled “Departing from Us” by Prof. Dr. Graf Kielmansegg, Professor of Political Sciences at the University of Mannheim. He says: “Citizenship, taken seriously, does not mean merely having rights against the country and the country of which you are a citizen. It is in the heart of taking responsibility for this country. The right to participate in a community on public matters, the essential domestic law that the community grants to its citizens; the protection promise it makes them cannot reasonably be considered without a corresponding awareness of the citizen of precisely this co-responsibility for the skill of the country." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] If we remember this and recall the tendencies of the requests made by the left-wing opposition parties in the Committee on the Interior, which in fact include a evasion of the possibility of obtaining Austrian citizenship, then it is important to hold back one very clearly, namely the value of good citizenship. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Rauch mentioned earlier what the Greens have put forward in their request here. In fact, they have written that citizenship is the most important factor in social integration. In our view, this is a massive mistake in thinking, which poses the danger of covering the main problem of attaining citizenship, ladies and gentlemen. Citizenship for itself can only be a reward for a successful integration process, which, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, requires the acquisition of the German language and, on the other hand, the holding of the law of our state of Austria. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Schwentner: Why you always want to prevent people from having access to German courses!]] It also needs to be understood about the obligations in our state and also the learning of customs and customs as well as the standing of our Republic of Austria. Citizenship is not, as you put it in this request, a gift, ladies and gentlemen. That's an essential difference. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Korun.]] In the autumn of this year, we will really be able to discuss in detail the individual access of the political groups in an expert hearing. For us, however, one thing is clear now and it will also be in the future: Austrian citizenship is a valuable asset that needs to be developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20874	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 242/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[20:44:00]] 12. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues in a federal law with which the Federal Insurance Fund is paid Set (BPGG), in the version of the BGBl. I No. 110/1993, as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 138/2013, amended (243/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20923	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20950	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! When he first read this request by the colleague of the Greens, he made a very useful impression. Of course, this is now a first reading, but it is already following a series of requests and approaches which our spokesperson Norbert Hofer has repeatedly introduced during the last government period, namely, in the field of caregivers, as reliefs or legal certainty can be created. They all know exactly, without the caring relatives, who take over 80 percent of care in Austria anyway, we could probably not maintain this system of care. It is probably the most difficult time in a person’s life to care for a family. It is not only a mental burden, it is often also a massive financial burden, and, in reality, politics cannot do enough to really support these people. It is above all a subject that will increase dramatically in the next few years. We all know that demographic development will result in all of us getting older and older, but of course it is also linked to the fact that there are more and more people who will need care. We therefore need to try to really support the family members who are ready to do so – and I really think that is a very, very great achievement – in a certain way. Therefore, if I didn't notice – if I didn't notice any tricks – I would think that this request is certainly one that goes in the right direction and is therefore worthy of support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e20983	Mrs Schwentner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21005	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs Colleague, for your support. It is indeed true that, as we all know, care takes place especially at home, especially in the family sector and care, especially through women in the family. Women are those who care for their families, who also care for disabled children. But in that case it is primarily about older people who are cared for for for for for for long years. The purpose of the application is the replacement care system. This is a new, very welcome instrument. Unfortunately, there is no legal claim for the possibility of using replacement care, as you have already mentioned. In other words, the woman has no claim to recover in retrospect the money she has used for replacement care. It doesn't have to be, it also has a request from us that she really gets it. The difference between the applicants and those who have received a replacement allowance is about 1 700. That is, it is obviously not guaranteed that all those looking for a replacement care get the money as well. The second thing is that you have to take someone for replacement care for at least seven days. The ministry argues that it is very strange and says it needs a recovery effect of at least seven days. However, many women do not trust themselves for more than a weekend, which is already a lot to be taken away from their relatives to be cared for. And it is not to be seen why that should be at least seven days. Such a woman, a family, should be supported in every respect, and if there are fewer days! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are also, obviously, very marked regional differences. I do not think that it is different from Tyrol to Styria, how women care for their families at home, but that there is obviously a massive lack of information about the supply of replacement care. We would also like to take measures to make it simply more known as an instrument that if you use someone at home, you can also go on a short vacation or get sick. Our request has also shown that about 30 percent of the people who claim the replacement care simply get sick themselves. This is not rare and shows that it is a very, very important instrument, which should be legally guaranteed that it can really be used by everyone. I would be pleased if the government parties also supported this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21053	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21074	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Schwentner! I think that the request is certainly worthy of discussion. On what you have said now that there are regional differences and that the offer there seems to be very different regionally, and on the question of whether replacement care may be approved for a few days, one can certainly discuss it. As far as legal claims are concerned, you have already filed this request in the last GP, and Mr Oellinger has still brought it in. At that time, we have already pointed out from the SPÖ that there has been this offer of replacement care since 2004 and that in 2009 the classification of the people to be cared for has been reduced to care level 3, in dementia patients even at care level 1 and in minor children also at care level 1. At the moment, the legal situation is such that the support fund can be applied for. I think that this is a good solution from our point of view, even because many other things have been implemented in the field of family care. I only recall the social security contributions that you take over from the federal government, or also the care leave and the care part-time, which are now possible. So I think it's really important to support caring relatives. But in the legal claim, we still believe that the current solution that exists is a good one. That is also because the figures I have speak of a non-recognition rate of 1,100, 1,200 cases in 2013, with a request volume of 10,245 applications. So you can see that there are a number of applications. In addition, in the previous year, national care benefits have also been paid. We now benefit from the replacement care, because we have taken over this from the union. For the non-recognition rate: Yeah, sure, 1,200 people who don't get it are 1,200 people who don't get it. But I think you've looked at it well, too, why those don't get it. From our point of view, there is no real need for a solution or a change in the legal claim at the moment. The other points I will look at exactly whether one can possibly find a solution in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21120	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21141	Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can join seamlessly where the colleague Königsberger-Ludwig has ended. I think it is undisputed that caring relatives do a very essential and important job. It is undisputed that there is a need to provide relief and support for caregivers. And the grant for replacement care is such a measure to support. I fully agree with the above-mentioned arguments. I think this grant system is a system that works very well. And one should not necessarily reform there and change something where something has settled and where something works. I think there are many areas in this Republic where you can reform and change something. But things that are well introduced and established should be left so. This grant system is such. Of course, we face the discussion in the Committee openly, but we now see no need for action on the legal basis, because everything that is justified is also complicated. The grant system has been well established, and one should stay with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21176	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 243/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[20:52:52]] 13. Point First reading: Request of Deputies Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship (State Citizenship Law 1985 – StbG), BGBl. No. 311/1985, amended (409/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21215	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21242	Thank you, Mr President. – Well, there are some applications, as has been correctly noted, for citizenship. It has also been mentioned that a committee of experts is to be held in autumn. And of course it is also a matter of clarifying the liberal position here in the form of an application. For us, Austrian citizenship – and this has already been done by Mr Darmann before – means a very, very high and important asset, which one does not simply and easily – I would almost say – give away, nor with criteria that are more than questionable when one sees who comes here. Of course, Mrs Korun always has examples of opera singers in the committee. We are no longer sure whether it was a Bosnian or a Brazilian. Maybe there are also several opera singers who serve as examples here. [[Abg. Korun: Imagine, there are even several!]] That is not the problem either. The matter is only, and we see that as a liberal, if you put red and white in the foreground of patriotism, then you can only actually try to ensure that citizenship is something that you have to acquire in particular. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Cap has asked what this Patriot tour is about, which he sees here; he is unfortunately not there. – Yes, this question of citizenship also has to do with the Patriotic tour, just as you have to say, it is a difference how you live Patriotism, whether you go backbone or with a garden hose back to Brussels. These are our views on this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I read here in the paper today – it is sometimes really an advantage if you get a paper in the plenary room and read it – that a Mr. Ali A. thinks he is a demonstration victim, and then it turns out that he himself is a stone-thrower, as a jus student – perhaps the name is not at all right, may be everything in this area – that this person is present as a stone-thrower, then we definitely want to see that these people do not have a green citizenship novel because they throw stones on the police, get a citizenship earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21297	Mrs Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21318	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have read Mr Rosenkranz's request. He sees it as a privilege for children who come to the world in Austria to receive Austrian citizenship after six years. And Mr Rosenkranz and the FPÖ simply want to take children of this right. In concrete terms, it is about children who have come to the world in Austria, but whose parents are not Austrian citizens. There comes a girl or a bub in Innsbruck or in Vienna to the world, goes to an Austrian kindergarten, goes to an Austrian school, learns a profession in Austria, maybe studies in Austria. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Six years? In six years? A miracle wuzzi!]] For the FPÖ, however, this child must not become an Austrian – and that is, Mr Commissioner, with a slender argument: What if citizenship is to be integrated in the same way?- Oh, my God! This is a very interesting idea of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You have not read the application!]] Do you really believe that a six-year-old child thinks: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The degree has completed?]] I don't integrate because I get citizenship anyway!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's why I won't learn German! – That way, only a foreign child can be – according to your thoughts. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Pock.]] Or perhaps the parents are so beaten up that they say: No, you're getting citizenship, you're not learning German, you're not integrating! And once again, you shouldn't have it better than we do! These parents Dear ladies and gentlemen, so illogical and so mean can only think of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But has the study already completed? Does his doctor have a law firm after six years?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call of the Abg. Korun.]] There are two motives for that. First: The representatives of the FPÖ are so far from the immigrants that they do not know and have no idea how these people live and think. [[Abg. Darmann: Your opinion! Ali A.!]] Instead, rely on prejudices and prejudices. [[Abg. Darmann: That's not true!]] – That is true as well as evidence of the relevant convictions for hatred. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Sure!]] Or the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ know that anyway, but insist that their discriminatory slogans arrive in the election campaign. [[Abg. Neubauer: (an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung”) Is that one you would like? Ali A.?]] This is the party of the hard-working and the decent. There is also hard to assume, for example, the SPÖ summit candidate Eugen Friend, who wanted to make the FPÖ a Yugoslav ex-spion, and that, although you know exactly that this is an injunction and false. [[Call the FPÖ: But you really have no idea!]] – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21481	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please. [[Call at the FPÖ: That was a embarrassing appearance!]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: (on the way to their seat) But I hope you understand!]] [[Abg. Mr Jarolim: Mr President, can you put ignorance in the barriers?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I'm asking for attention! Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21547	Mr President. I believe that in the performance we have now experienced many contradictions have already been in there. I can't befriend that. I would rather like to refer to Mrs Korun's comments. First of all, however, to the Citizenship Act: On the whole, I think we should consider how to grant citizenship. [[President Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] As mayor, I get the Lapidar message that this person or that person from the community has been granted citizenship. I write to her or to him, of course, a letter that he is welcome as an Austrian citizen in our community. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: In what language?]] [[Call the SPÖ:In Lower Austrian!]] That's, I think, absolutely essential now. He is an Austrian citizen. That is precisely why, so that we do not have to do such things, I would suggest that we create a festive framework in order to be able to hand over a citizenship certificate. This is for the neo-Austrian, I think, an important thing, also for the self-confidence of us Austrians. [[Abg. Walter Rauch: But the mayor must be there!]] Yes. But it's actually about something completely different. Now it is about the fact that in August of the previous year we already made substantial reforms in citizenship law, and a problem has been raised, namely that of income. I am here with you, Mrs Korun, that is what we need to consider. If we are discussing this in the Committee, we should ask ourselves whether, although we did so only last year, we should not rethink the regulation, namely the 36 best months as an income limit. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] Despite everything, a lot has already been done. I am thinking now of those who are integrated, who hold an honorary office, of children – that was wrong now, Mrs Colleague – who were born in Austria. They get citizenship not after ten years, but after six years. So much has already been done, I am thinking of Putativösterreicher, of all these situations. However, we must also note that there are contrasts. We from the ÖVP advocate that there is no automatic means that there is no automatic access to citizenship at birth, but that citizenship is granted only after a certain age. We still have the opportunity to discuss it. But we also need to talk about the denial of citizenship, so that those people who go to war, for example in Syria, as Austrians or Austrians, violate the laws of our country, violate neutrality, deny citizenship. So a lot of things to discuss in the Committee. It'll be enough time. But we should not develop xenophobia, no xenophobia, but we should really address this discussion with an eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21620	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21641	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! To the thinking of the FPÖ, which requires six-year-old or older children to want to hide anything, you have to say what the bad is, he thinks of the others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To your argument, highly esteemed Ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ, the Austrian citizenship must have been particularly developed, one of the questions immediately arises: What exactly did you deserve citizenship for? – Indem Did you quickly choose your parents before birth? Is it even more absurd? [[Abg. Darmann: Is this the line of argument that strikes the Greens?]] As far as the proposal now before is concerned, we should be aware that – I have patiently listened to Mr Rosenkranz. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You shout out all the time, you obviously keep the truth whole, very bad, and you also have a very bad behavior. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have to say that here. Their constant plaring does not actually correspond to the dignity of the house. On this request of the liberals. It has been constant for years, so that some 36 percent of the people who are born annually have already been born in Austria. That is, we make babies and children born here first foreigners, even though their parents have been here for years and decades, then they are allowed to wait a few years, they are now treated as foreigners, and later they are granted much bureaucracy and high costs not only for themselves, but also for the state perhaps once. If this were to happen, which the liberals probably do not demand all serious things, but so to speak, because the Greens have allowed themselves to make applications that go towards more liberal citizenship, if reality were to become reality, then we would have been born to the annual citizens 60, 70, at some point 80 percent here, who were first artificially made to foreigners, and then years later might have received the same rights for equal duties. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is artificial!]] This would be quite specific if you were to take your request seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21709	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion 409/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[21:05:38]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Dr Rainer Hable, colleagues on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988 (412/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21748	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mr Hable, is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21775	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! This proposal from our group, from NEOS, on the abolition of cold progression is important, because in Austria much is increasing. It increases the fees, it increases rents, yes, it also increases wages with inflation. However, what does not go up is the income limits, the income limits in wage and income tax law, which means that workers in this country are gradually moving into higher and higher tax classes, are increasingly having to pay higher taxes without actually earning more. In Austria, for example, in 2012, we had an increase of just over 4 percent in wages, but an increase of over 8 percent in wage and income tax revenue. In other words, wage taxes have increased by more than twice as much as wage taxes have risen. In 17 out of 34 OECD member countries, indexation of these income limits has now been implemented in income tax law. The OECD says – there are also other figures – that last year the gross salary increase that workers have received in this country, when they deduct inflation and taxes, is exactly zero. This is only the average worker, the average employee. This means that there are a number of people. In this country, and they feel it, which, while more on the payroll, have been on the top, but which remains less in the pocket of money. This, of course, has a positive effect, let us call it a positive effect on the government budget. According to the calculation of economic research institutes, €2.65 billion was added to this cold progression in the period from 2008 to 2014. Thus, the wage tax increase, pardon, the wage tax reduction 2009 – one could easily forget that there have been reductions in this country here and once – has long been eaten up by the cold progression, by this constant forward-slipping into higher tax classes. This cold progression de facto means a tax increase without Parliament's decision. It is a tax increase which takes place all year reliably, entirely automatically, without the consent of this House and without the consent of Parliament, without the consent of the representatives of the people. That is why we are bringing this request, the request for the abolition of cold progression, for inflation indexation of income limits. Ladies and gentlemen, there is actually no reason not to agree with this. There is very often a broad consent in personal discussions, there is a broad agreement outside of the interests, among the citizens, with experts and specialists. That is why I say, here in this House, too, that we should be confident that we should move the tax increases back here to this House, because here they belong. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21824	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21845	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! Mr Hable! The problem you described is right. We have a big problem here, especially with lower incomes, only the analysis is wrong. The analysis is therefore wrong, because it is not the problem of non-value indexing of these frontier tax levels, but especially of small incomes, and as our opinions cover, some gross increases in the income range remain between €1 200 and €1500 less than 50 percent. This is already very little percentage, in absolute euro amounts it is much less. This problem, which we have in these areas, is not because we do not raise the limit rate, but because of the unemployment insurance contributions. That means that this problem we have here is more complex. And this problem is also quite different: We simply have an unfair tax system, because there are also profiters in this tax system that we now have. With income of over €4 500, we have the effect that of a gross wage increase of 3 percent net more than 3 percent. This means that high incomes are currently preferred and favoured, small incomes are currently being punished. Therefore, our access is, we urgently need a real reform of this wage tax, which ensures that the system is fair and fair and increases to the benefit of those who most need it. And these are the beneficiaries of the smallest incomes, because they depend on them having proper increases. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21880	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21902	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors and television viewers! There are no more visitors today. High house! To the Income Tax Act, let me hold a lot at the beginning. We from ÖVP are in favour of a tax reform. Vice chancellor and Finance Minister Dr. Michael Spindelegger repeatedly stressed this. But this reform must not be based on pump. If the budgetary margin is available, then there must and will be a discharge for the middle class, for our families and also for our entrepreneurs. You can be sure of that. But you'll certainly see that yourself: We can't distribute what we don't have. I'm sure that's going to impress on everyone. The ÖVP Roadmap is perfectly clear: Debt reduction. With the 2014/15 budget, Minister of Finance Spindelegger brought this to the rails. Point two: Structural reform. This will be developed with the national leaders, and there will also be a concept. Tax reduction: A working group with experts and officials from the Ministry is being formed just under the direction of Federal Minister Ostermayer and State Secretary Danninger. There will also be a concept in the near future. Dr. Hable's application deals with the Income Tax Act. Automatic inflation adjustment of the income line is required. However, there are a number of questions here, for example, which index is to be used for the automatic adjustment of all tax-regulated amounts. Not every index reflects the consumption needs of the various social groups. In addition, an isolated adjustment of the rate of progression would be too little. All amounts in the Income Tax Act should be subject to this adjustment. Self-retaining for extraordinary loads, for example in the case of single-earner deductions, should be increased annually. All these adjustments are, of course, also linked to significant administrative costs. The Financial Committee will deal with this request in a proven scientific and technical manner, and I am sure that the working group on tax reduction will present an optimal approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21945	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e21992	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ÖVP and SPÖ do not seem to understand that the hat is burning. Yes, I can hardly believe that you do not perceive the mood of the population. A tax reform, a relief of the working population is long overdue! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the colleague Fichtinger thinks that this shouldn't happen on pump, I have to stop it, but you're taking the people's money on pump. Cold Progression means that the Minister of Finance will spend about €3 billion a year without doing anything about it. These are the wage increases, which show fictitiously on the wage and salary registers, but do not arrive at the population. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and SPÖ! They take the hard-earned money from the population! How can you answer that? Mr Fichtinger, you say that we cannot give what we do not have, and that is why there is no tax reform now. Yeah, I don't understand. Inverted: The population can't give you the money either. But she'll get the money. And if you have a bit of a feeling, I'll tell you that the suffering pressure of the population is excruciating. It can't be anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is at the moment when a discharge of the working population is urgently needed to strengthen and maintain Austria's economic location. And what I don’t understand at all when you look at the media reports, today the “Kurier”, survey: Any third party would take part in the tax strike. The clientele of the ÖVP, your clientel, your clientel says: It's enough! We've got enough! The system is unfair! The media say we know that we work half the year for the state. – You don’t register that! Yes, say, earlier, an old proverb said: Steter drop hollows the stone. But the drop doesn't move you at all. How long are you still resistant? How long do you want to pull the last cent out of the bag? How long are you watching that? This rumble – apologise! – people are slowly really nervous. A tax reform is urgently needed in order to stimulate consumption so that money can flow back into the economy via the working population. This can also partially finance a tax reform itself. But as the credibility of this government and the credibility of the Minister of Finance, we can also read in the “Kronen Zeitung” today. On the question – I quote – to the budget figures: Do you still believe the statements of the Minister of Finance?, a clear answer from the population: 3.8 percent believe the statement of the Minister of Finance still, 96.2 percent simply say no. This government is no longer believed. They are all empty promises, unfortunately at the expense of the working population, which we sincerely regret.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22052	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22074	Thank you, Madam President. – Yes, this request by Rainer Hable can of course be accepted at any time. This corresponds to an old demand, to the adjustment of tariff levels to wage developments or to inflation trends. And that this is long overdue in Austria, we know. If we wait for the ÖVP, Mrs Fichtinger, for what you have called it, optimal concept, then we are waiting for the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, we will never come to a tax relief. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you say that we can't distribute what we don't have, and wait for it, then we'll never get a tax relief either. But if we do what I said earlier today, namely a tax-structural reform with an inheritance and gift tax, and get us the money where it is, then we can very well achieve a reduction in wage and income tax, even relatively quickly. So what are we waiting for? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Time's ripe! 1 per cent, Mr. colleague, the richest household in Austria has a assets of €470 billion. Letter I would like to thank you once again for your support. No paper, and remember that once! With some of these, we can at any time finance a tax relief which is excessive in view of the development of net real income in Austria. The development has been negative since 2010. I'll explain to you: Since 1975, the average increase in net real income, adjusted by part-time employment, has been 0.7 percent. We need this now! We need this wage tax relief for a growth policy, which can reduce our debt and our deficits and thus also create jobs in this country. The faster we approach this tax structure concept, the better it is for people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22128	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 412/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:22:20]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22161	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Podgorschek, Mag. Kogler, Ing. Lugar, Dr. Hable, on the establishment of an investigation committee on the investigation of political responsibility in connection with the operations relating to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. The request has now been distributed to all Members; it needs no reading. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22371	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes. The first speaker is given 10 minutes to reason. Comments from members of the Federal Government or State Secretary should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22416	Madam President. Even if you don't want to be true and some of you here can't hear the subject anymore, I still say: It's 19th today. Let this request be made for an investigation committee to be set up! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Five times he was put together by all opposition parties. I think these have never been as united as on this subject because they see that there is a lot to be turned under the carpet. Ladies and gentlemen! I have had discussions in the public again lately, as has Mr Kogler, and we have repeatedly been confronted with the fact that new aspects are being incorporated into the whole of Causa. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] And now there is a discussion about the fact that we should go back and wait again now because new procedural rules are now being negotiated in the Committee of Inquiry, then there could be a minority right and then the opposition would be able to enforce it alone. [[Abg. Lopatka: Not then she would be able, but then she will!]] – We will see that, Mr Lopatka! As long as I do not live by this decision, I do not believe in it yet! [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] We shall see whether these new rules of procedure will be adopted. There is nothing against the fact that we are still doing so in accordance with the old rules. There would be no minority right, because the government would even have the opportunity to prevent one or the other, but not even that you want! But the wheel continues to turn, and after reading in the media today that the Supervisory Board of Hypo has resigned completely, an interesting one is already happening. Picture of this whole causa! This radical change is very strange! We know that President Liebscher has resigned some time ago. But now that the other supervisory councils, Mr Wala, Mr Scholten, Mr Steinbichler and Mr Draxler, are also looking for the space, it is very interesting! And I am curious about what new supervisory councils the Minister of Defence will determine. But after all, Mr Krainer and Mr Wöginger are speaking, and they will again justify why we have rejected a committee of inquiry. I, dear August Wöginger, now have a letter from you by the hand you sent to us in the constituency, and in it you represent very interesting theses, for example, that there have already been two investigation committees in Carinthia. – Yes, that corresponds to the facts! But first of all, these committees of inquiry only examined the operations by 2007. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Secondly, Mr Wöginger, the documents which came from the Federal Government were completely blackened and persons were not allowed to appear, for example, by the FMA or by the National Bank before these committees. That is why this Committee of Inquiry has no relevance at all from a federal political point of view and these committees are to be seen as null and void if one considers the whole global. There are also over 100 criminal proceedings, as you say. - Yes, thank God! But these have only partly to do with the hypo's problem, because in their context the emergency stateization or the sale of the hypo is not dealt with, or the latter is dealt with only on the edge as for example by Tilo Berlin. So there are plenty of other points to work out. Then you write: Enlightenment is important. That is why the Commission of Inquiry was set up with President of the Court of Justice Dr. Griss and has a free hand for processing. This is, in my view, the greatest pang, because for me, this Commission has no legal framework at all, no one is obliged to provide information, and even in the committee, OeNB Governor Novotny admitted that it is only making files available if this is done in the framework of the law. That means that there will basically be nothing, because everything will fall under banking secrecy, and that is how this Griss Commission has no value at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary. She'll just devour a lot of money. The cost to this Commission, which is now forecast, is between €1.5 million and € 2 million, but this Commission will in no way replace a committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After we liberals have always said that we want to examine the time before the sale or prior to the emergency nationalization, I do not have the slightest fear that there might arise something that would burden us liberals. If I look at chronology, I see, for example, that in 1992 Mr. Kulterer was installed by Mr. Zernatto as the board of directors, and Mr. Kulterer came from the Raiffeisen area, which is no shame, dear Jakob Auer! But one can certainly read that at the time the opposition leader, Jörg Haider, took a massive stand against it and explained that the whole thing was a red-black game in Carinthia and that the big-coalitional occupation. That's quite interesting! [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not rule out, however, that Jörg Haider has subsequently joined Mr. Kulterer, that they have formed a symbiosis and that some project has been carried out. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Then I would like to look at, ladies and gentlemen, Krainer, who have financed their prestige objects or projects in Austria by means of their Landesbank or other banks! There are others in nothing, and that is not a problem from my point of view, but it can also be discussed and reworked. The acquisition or participation of the investor group by Tilo Berlin is currently pending, and that is good, because there are really piglets happening. Just by the way: Tilo Berlin was also a very good friend of Veit Sorger, the former industrial association president. And I hardly believe that these gentlemen are in the suspicion of being freer! Of course, the sale to Bavaria also belongs to investigation. After all, the country of Carinthia has reached €800 million and has received additional liability fees. This was certainly not to the detriment of the country of Carinthia, even though the country of Carinthia – even this is a fact – has entered far too high a liability, however, even this must be emphasized again, always with the approval of ÖVP and SPÖ. That's all I need to say. The sale or so-called emergency stateization was very interesting, as were the statements of OeNB Governor Novotny, who claimed that this bank was “not distressed” when it came to obtaining participation capital. All of this urgently requires a clarification, as well as the whole time between 2009 and 2014, when nothing has happened and at the end of the day a lot of money has flown in discussions and so on and so on. Finally, everything has to be borne by taxpayers, because the establishment solution has only served to put this Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria around the taxpayer. He's got to pay now. At the end of the day, all the creditors are slipped through the stitches. And if you believe that Bavaria will make some contribution to this, then you are wrong! The Bavaria have already been relieved by you in 2009. In 2009, you took the Bayern out of your responsibility, so you turned the liability chain around, and that is from our point of view the main scandal at all this Causa! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be nothing else left to you! The population won't lose you any more. At the end of the day, over 200,000 people have signed an Internet petition, and from time to time the pressure is increasing. I was at a panel discussion in Amstetten last Friday, and I noticed that the population would definitely like to have an investigation committee. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be able to prevent it – even if you still yell at it!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22525	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22547	Madam President. High house! In the Federal Government's view, there is no hypo-examination committee because we have the government commission. The government also considers that there is no tax reform because we cannot afford it. According to the government, we cannot afford a tax reform because we have the hypo disaster, and because there is the hypo disaster, the Federal Government always has a good excuse for its refusal to reform. But now, in a row, To date, the Commission of the Government has still not been able to start its work because it is still not clear on what legal basis the Commission of Government should receive the files from the OeNB, the BMF and the FMA. Last Friday, Mr Vice-Chancellor said that the Commission would make a proposal on the procedure in order to ensure that the documents were submitted to the Committee on Budgets. The Commission may be published. – I am curious about how this procedure can be reconciled with official secrecy and banking secrecy! But that nothing goes on here doesn't seem to be really disturbing the Federal Government. Nor does the government seem to be disturbing to the government commission. Interesting in this context is the statement of the former Minister of Finance Pröll in February 2014: “I have my political history between 28. ==References== ==References====External links== Now others are in it.” – But I’m already excited about the statement or perhaps not the ex-finance minister’s statement at the government commission! The final report of the Intergovernmental Commission may also be stressed. If the final report explicitly refers to the files of the FMA, the OeNB and the BMF, it will probably not be possible to publish the report for legal reasons. However, if one does not refer to these files in the final report, the result of the investigation will not be comprehensible or transparent. A parliamentary committee of inquiry would, of course, be able to publish it. This report would be transparent and comprehensible. However, because the Federal Government does not wish to have such a transparent and comprehensible report, there is the government commission. It was not to be expected that the Federal Government was really interested in a complete investigation. Significantly, the project runs as a hypo-degradation unit under the working title ‘STP’, shortened for ‘save the taxplayer!’, i.e. ‘protection the taxpayer!’. I wonder, Who is the taxpayer to be protected from? – I guess that's what the Federal Government is talking about! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the Federal Government, the banks, the speculators and the creditors are more worthy of protection than the taxpayers, otherwise the Federal Government would not have opted for the decommissioning company, but for the insolvency model. It is not the hypo disaster that prevents the Federal Government from implementing tax and structural reforms, but merely their own inability.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22617	Mr Mag. Kogler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22638	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, it is a new strategy for the government to stop talking. [[Abg. Rädler: A new speech!]] – Yes, yes, there are new things coming, just be careful! Speaking of new: What you have done recently is to prevent a new approach to the vote on committee of inquiry by a new counter-strategy on your part. – We knew you were going to act like that. This is in this case, I believe, from the Social Democrats. For all those, perhaps especially the ÖVP, who do not know what has happened: We have announced and submitted a request for a secret vote on this committee of inquiry. In this respect, the Rules of Procedure offer two possibilities. This is, of course, a majority right. You can reject this by vote. But it would have looked even more stupid if we had to vote on whether we were voting in secret. You didn't even trust that, and that's why you're coming. You probably don't get out anymore! It's new already! Yes, yes, hide back in the confessional, that's where you belong too! [[Abg. Lopatka: You trusted yourself, my God! Confession chair!]] That's right, because you have a lot of things to do. If you prevent a secret vote from taking place here, it only proves how far they have already come or how deep they have fallen in your defence strategy! It won't help you anyway! In order to prevent this vote, the Rules of Procedure – all of which is of course correct – have to be said – give something that goes wrong. [[Abg. Lopatka: What does “falling ” mean?]] Yeah, run, right! It gives something, that is to say, the desire for a name-named vote. For this you will now be stopped to vote, in particular. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Kogler, there is not yet a private Rules of Procedure for the Greens!]] That's okay, very okay. [[Abg. Street: I understand the fear of the secret vote!]] It only means that the government groups fear the secret vote. So just to translate it for you as well: You're afraid of yourself! [[Congratulations on Greens, FPÖ and NEOS as well as on representatives of the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: If the Greens demand a name, it's okay, isn't it?]] Of course, the Red and Black Club people have every reason to fear that, because I tell you one thing: [[Call the ÖVP: Don't be afraid!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: What does “fear ” mean?]] If we were to vote in secret here, there would be a majority for the Committee of Inquiry in half an hour – certainly! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's the best!]] [[Abg. Strache: Your own representatives are being suffocated!]] This is just the staircase of Austrian history that you have kept the hypo hole quiet before the election. That's why you've lost your majority. You'd never have gotten her again! And with your straight yet-majority to prevent Now you'd have said the truth to the investigation you could no longer have prevented before the election. And the whole thing orchestrates two club people who were then, when 2009 was the biggest mistake – the biggest, yes, there was Haider already dead – at the Hypo Alpe-Adria, State Secretary, Mr. Lopatka – who was not directly involved in the negotiations, one must say that correctly, but State Secretary – and Mr. Schieder, State Secretary and Negotiators with Minister Pröll. [[Abg. Strache: He was certainly fully informed by the Federal Minister! He will be involved in everything!]] At least a hypo-Klubobmann and a supportive hypo-Klubobmann we now have here, and they also prevent this secret vote. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Well, you wanted to hear something new, too. Today, the entire Supervisory Board of Hypo has resigned, this remaining body facility. Of course, this was not all agreed, because the Minister of Finance, who has had lucid moments in between, but now completely ruled again in hypo matters, has overturned with everything that is still reasonable, and is pressing through a new Supervisory Board chairman, and the Supervisory Board, who has to vote, then goes. Read the press release of today's lunch! You don't know what the Minister of Health says about this. They would have to look at what is being taken in the Ministry of Finance! They're making a press release, Citation Spindelegger – he won't have said that himself! –: “Now the hypo breaks up to new shores.” – Literally quote! [[Cheerfulness with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[Abg. That's crazy!]] [[Abg. Hammer: (in the direction of FPÖ) Do not understand, but laugh!]] You know what? – The Minister of Finance can sit down on the side of this river and see how the bodies drive by, which primarily caused black finance ministers. [[Congratulations on Greens, FPÖ and NEOS as well as on representatives of the Stronach team.]] So far you've brought it, and all this is from today's day, everything new, everything fresh. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Not fresh is your government commission. [[Call the ÖVP: What's new?]] And since – last sentence – the Board of Financial Markets Supervisors in the Financial Committee has said something very significant about our question of the legal basis: At the moment, you don't want to, but you're trying for a way. – This is the way of your Enlightenment: by the law! We need the investigative committee, and he'll come!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22890	Mr Kogler, I have been thinking about whether I should say something now, and I have decided to do so. I have the greatest understanding when, especially the opposition parties, the small parties use the Rules of Procedure from the first to the last paragraphs – of course. But this right applies not only to the opposition, but to all, and I am against talking about refusal, or whatever you used in words, when commercial instruments are used. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh! Right!]] [[Abg. Strache: But he can tactically analyze!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] I think we have to consider whether we are turning the Rules of Procedure in different directions; I do not think so, I tell you quite honestly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Strategic analyses of the use of GO will probably be allowed! For tactical reasons, an analysis...!]] Mrs Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e22968	Good evening, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! It is really interesting that we so often discuss this question of hypo. Still standing for me, I must say, an event in the center, which I would like to have clarified, and that is: What happened to this so-called nationalization at the time? Who really called? Who is supposed to have put pressure on who? . It is always murmured that the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Trichet, should have called Mr Pröll at night and that it was finally said yes in the early days. What is also particularly interesting is the role of the central bank, the role of Mr Liebscher, the role of Mr Novotny. Since the Farce comes after the tragedy, it is also very interesting that just today, while we are discussing here, a few houses continue to spend the evening together at the ring by Mr. Trichet, Liebscher and Novotny. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Jö! That's nice!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Who is this farce quote of?]] – What quote? Ha ha, exam questions, yes! [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] We still come with a few quotes, if you want, because the emergency stateization is something that really bothers me, because capitalism is oh-ne bankruptcy like Christianity without hell. [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] – But you may also find out who this quote is from. [[Abg. Rädler: Quote Clausewitz!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] National bank, not distressed and so on: There was a very interesting article in the “profile” 14 days ago, in which there was a dinner in which Mr. Pröll and also a board member of the central bank were present. The head of state called this director of the central bank and spoke of a sourry that he did not like. [[Abg. Rädler: That was one too!]] I quote: Pribil owes it to the ÖVP alone that he is sitting in the central bank, without a party he would be “nothing”. Pribil got up to calm down Pröll, which, however, raised it even more. Pröll threatened: He will ensure that Pribil doesn't sit in the bank for long, and at all he will ensure that Pribil and Harald Ettl no longer get a job in this country. - Quote. [[Abg. What are you doing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If so... – Yes, why react [[Abg. Krainer: The Harald Ettl has been in bed for a long time!]] Is that what you're talking about? I would have thought that if, then they're loud, but maybe feel [[towards ÖVP]] You also address yourself here, because it may well be that in the central bank of these two parties – if I may believe in the article – you select the central bank directors and that your national leaders can also put pressure on the central bank directors at dinner so that they can publish it in a newspaper. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Krainer: The Harald Ettl has been in bed for a long time!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if that's only true in the first place, what's in the profile, then I'm not surprised at all, if there's sometime there: Not distressed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e23155	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e23176	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens on the gallery – the remaining ones – and in front of the screens! Apparently there is panicking fear of a committee of inquiry, and I must confess that I cannot fully understand it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] We've already discovered a lot. [[Call the ÖVP: Good night!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But I wonder: What else is there to reveal that ÖVP and SPÖ have such a panicic fear of a U-committee? [[Abg. Lopatka: Nice bath tour tomorrow!]] Madam President, you are right, this request for a nameary vote is a legitimate instrument of the Rules of Procedure. [[Call the ÖVP:A minority right!]] But here I would like to jump to Mr Kogler's side: It is not about whether we use legitimate instruments of the Rules of Procedure, but about what they mean. And the only purpose of this request for a nameary vote is to prevent the U-committee. I ask myself, Mr Pendl, Mr Wöginger – I am sure that was not your idea – who commissioned you to do so. It can only be assumed that the club members of ÖVP and SPÖ no longer fully trust the club force that you will no longer trust your own Member as they will vote. [[Abg. Lopatka: That lets you be our concern!]] That is the only reason for this desire, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is just embarrassing. [[Call the ÖVP:Klatchen!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: applause, Matthias, what's going on?]] They wanted to hear something new. We can always serve with something new. A few days ago, we received requests from the Ministry of Finance for various files that we have published to Hypo Alpe-Adria. We'll probably discuss that later in detail, but I can tell you a few Gustopückerl if you want to hear something new. We now have the official confirmation that the 2009 audit report of the OeNB, completed on 23. In November 2009, three weeks before the so-called emergency nationalization, the negotiators in the Ministry of Finance were not known. Klubobmann Schieder, you were there too. That was obviously not known to you. That is to say, Governor Novotny did not have the report of his own institution, which was produced in three months of intensive examination and which has drawn a desperate picture of Hypo Alpe-Adria. He obviously was there during the negotiations, but he had forgotten to put it in his pocket. The second news we have read from these answers: It seems that there were only a few weeks to make decisions; three weeks. At the end of November, therefore, the Bayern have arrived, said we want to get rid of the bank, take it off. On the other hand, the FMA, which said, was said to be on the 14th. ==References== December will be the business supervisor. It is a preliminary procedure for insolvency, that is, the FMA has threatened with nothing but insolvency – and that three weeks before the decision. That's what I'm asking myself: How can it be that decision-making must take place within three weeks? It can't be that, in this country, a bank is slid into insolvency, is directed towards insolvency, and no one notices it until the last moment! There are only two options: Either we have a perfect supervisory failure, and thus I do not mean the auditors of the FMA and the OeNB, because the critical reports have been there, but I mean what happened to these reports, which is obviously nothing. But just as much fear as the U-committee does you have of insolvency. We calculated last week – and this too is something new – together with balance sheet and insolvency experts, as would look like in about an insolvency based on the 2013 balance sheet data. It has come out that €2.7 billion of loss remains in a worst-case scenario. This is the amount that we – the taxpayers – put in in 2013 alone. There's also a question: Why do you have this panicic fear of insolvency? The answer, I think, is obvious: You don't want the U-committee, you don't want insolvency because it's over with the camouflage and tricks. And that's why we'll stay up on the U committee for so long and keep the insolvency solution on the table – so that it's finally over with the camouflage and deception. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e23296	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Podgorschek, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Kogler, Ing. Lugar and Dr. Hable to set up an investigation committee. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The vote on the request for a secret vote, which was also supported by 20 Members, is not sufficient. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of setting up an investigation committee to cast “Yes” votes in favour, those who vote against, “No” votes in favour. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e23376	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will make the narration, the scribes will take charge, and for this purpose I will interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e23411	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 166; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 71, No votes: 95. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Pirklhuber, Pock, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Gift, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwennner, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Of a thickness Walser, Refuserstorfer, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. [[22:04:23]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00025_d7e23611	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received requests from 420/A(E) to 429/A(E). Questions 1501/J to 1522/J were also received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 22.05 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
