ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2201	I'll open the 32. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of the 30th century. Meeting of 12. ==References== Meeting of 13. In June 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Bayr, Dr. Karl, Dr. Fuchs, Mag. Hauser, Dr. Hübner, Jannach, Kickl, Mölzer, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Moser and Willi. [[12:00:31]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2235	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:00:40]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2391	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting 1821/J by Dr Hable, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “Special Law Hypo Alpe Adria International AG – the worse from both worlds”. [[12:01:14]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the request 1237/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2412	I would also like to say that according to Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 1350/J by Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, colleagues in relation to legal clarity by the Federal Minister for Justice, through the insolvency of local authorities. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 3 p.m. I announce that the session will be transferred to ORF III in full length from 3 p.m. Before I interrupt the meeting, I would like to remind you that we will find ourselves in the EU's main committee immediately after this part-session. This meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2461	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to go to your places. [[15:00:27]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Rainer Hable, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Finance on “Special Legislation Hypo Alpe Adria International AG – the worst of both worlds” (1821/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2497	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 1821/J. In the meantime, this has been done to all the Members, and a reading is not enough. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2900	I call Mr Hable to speak as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. You know, according to § 93 para. 5 must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e2924	Madam President. High house! Federal Minister! Estimated citizens on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! We have called for the special session today, because we are asking for answers. We ask for answers to this hypo-special law because the Federal Government is now doing something that it has categorically excluded at the beginning of this year – because of credibility, credit quality or, as you have said, Mr Finanzminister: Trust in the value of a national liability must be protected. Those were your words, and with these arguments you still excluded an insolvency categorically at the beginning of this year. That was the reason why an insolvency for the Hypo Alpe-Adria is in no way possible. Now, a few months later, I wonder, or do many people in this country ask themselves: Why is everything different now? Therefore, I would like to make the last six months of revision happen – what happened in these months? – so that we don’t forget what the arguments were before and what the previous history of this hypo special law is. In December 2013, international experts reviewed the scenario. In Wyman's opinion, international experts have issued a recommendation in favour of insolvency. However, it was shubby precisely for this reason and had to be brought to the public by us NEOS. There was then a recommendation from the Federal Government Task Force, which went towards mining company. She said: Insolvency is excluded, we need a decommissioning company. This was the Task Force's recommendation, and it did not or was very reluctant to deal with the insolvency scenario that it excluded. Mr Finanzminister, however, you did not rule out insolvency in the public debate at that time. If it was previously categorically excluded, you then said in your public statements, all variants are open, including insolvency. And then, of course, a public discussion has also arisen about insolvency. In this situation, another opinion was commissioned, again prepared by international experts. Unfortunately, I can't keep the zeb opinion up, because it's still shubby. There seems to have been found a drawer that is particularly hidden. This opinion also contains a clear recommendation in favour of insolvency. In March of this year, your press conference with which the course was changed again came. In the past, all variants were open, including insolvency, the insolvency was now excluded again. Although this was the preferred variant according to the Zeb opinion, the insolvency was again excluded. So it was in the beginning: no insolvency!, then: Insolvency is possible! and with your press conference, Mr. Finanzminister, insolvency has been ruled out again. They have also announced at the same time that the South-East European daughters will be sold. They have announced that a participation of the Kärntner Zukunftsfonds will be launched. They have announced that the old owners will be involved in Bayern. And you have announced fourth that the creditors will be involved. Therefore, I would like to take a look at what we have implemented from these announcements today, a few months later, in June 2013. We have the first point, sale of the South-East European daughters, no result, no sale. It must also be said that this sale has not been tried since yesterday. In recent years, hypo leaders have tried to sell the daughters, with – as we know – a manageable success. But even if there are offers now, one thing is clear: the result of such a sale cannot be a good one. There will be a sale far below book value, there will be a sale with strong guarantees, there will be a sale where important credit lines will have to continue to be maintained – so much is fixed. Secondly, participation of the future fund: This too is not on track because the SPÖ has crossed. The reason she has crossed is obvious: due to Chancellor Faymann's axis in Vienna and the head of state Kaiser in Carinthia. I wonder what would have happened if the Carinthian had been head of state of the FPÖ. Would chancellor Faymann have been called to rescue the country of Carinthia? - I don't think so. This is therefore another political decision, not an objective one. [[Abg. Matznetter: also nationalized!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – You will be speaking in a moment, Mr Krainer. The participation of Bavaria is also not on track, is not in sight. And fourth and last point – and this is now the subject of this hypo-special law, particularly the debate today – is the issue of creditor participation. All in all, it must be noted that already 7 billions have flown in or have not flown in, but at least lost by guarantees and cash irrevocably, and that a total of a 15-billion-€-debakel in terms of hypo-alpe-Adria is due to the taxpayer. And this Lex Hypo, this hypo special law sets the crown on the whole. I already have to admit to you, Minister of Finance and Secretary of State, that you are, of course, seeking a solution. That's more than we've seen in the years before. But the question – and you have to let this question happen – is whether this path you are taking is the right way. That is why I would like to put to the discussion what we have achieved with this hypo special law. We have definitely achieved a European Championship again. We are very good at collecting European Championships, mostly of European Championships that we do not need. We know we have him in the promotion of the party, and we have one again. Why? – Because it is unique across Europe that a state simply wipes state guarantees from the table by means of a special law. That's unique. And the consequence is of course – the credit rating agencies have already responded – that state liability is no longer taken seriously if they can simply be declared null and void by means of a special law. Mr Finanzminister, you have said that has already been done in other countries, in Holland and in Ireland. Yes, that's true, but there only subordinate believers have been asked to cash out. There – and this is the big difference – were no state guarantees, no national liability in the background; these were not affected and could not be declared null and void. That's an essential difference. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Also, the new EU law, the new EU bank settlement regime, does not provide for the elimination of state liability. With this special law, you challenge private property. What you do with this special law is arbitrary self-invention, and an objective justification for this ownership intervention is far and wide not in sight. I would ask you to continue the discussion afterwards, which would be a command of courtesy. [[in the direction of the Abg, standing at the Intergovernmental Bank and speaking to Vice-Cancecian Spindelegger. Pilz]] An objective justification is not apparent in this ownership intervention, and therefore it is clear that this is probably and probably unconstitutional, because you have not even cut all subordinate believers, but only those where the term goes until 2019. They wonder how you want to argue this before the Constitutional Court, namely that this is not inequality. What you have definitely done is to maximize the loss of trust. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] However, trust is a prerequisite for the functioning of the financial markets, trust is a prerequisite for Austria's economic location. They create a loss of confidence that an insolvency would never have resulted. Why not? – Insolvency is not unexpected. Investors have to expect insolvencies over and over again, that can happen. With what investors, which the economic operators in this country and the economic location did not have to expect, this special law, with which per stroke, is simply removed by law state liabilities. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The reaction of credit rating agencies, the downgrading was due to these unexpected actions, because of this zigzag course. This would not have happened in the event of insolvency. At the same time, with this maximisation of the loss of trust, you also maximize the costs for the taxpayer, because the solution you propose here, this hypo-special law, is a legal graze migration, which – and many experts say – is likely to lead to a crash, and then we have not only the total cost of taxpayers and taxpayers, but we also have the process costs that will not be too short. The investors, as we hear, are already in position. What this hypo special law does not achieve is a comprehensive creditor participation. This is only a partial creditor, which is only a piecemeal approach. What would be the advantage of insolvency, namely the comprehensive participation of all creditors in the costs, is not what you can do here. They combine the bad from both worlds. They combine the loss of trust, but do not get the benefits of comprehensive creditor participation. What is the alternative? – We NEOS have always said that we not only want to criticise, even if it is necessary in the matter, we also want to put solutions on the table. And that's what we did. We presented our insolvency account at a press conference in May this year. We met with insolvency experts, with balance sheet experts, and looked at what would happen in the event of insolvency, how high the costs would actually be. The result is surprising! According to our calculations and according to those of the experts, it would be only €2.9 billion; €2.9 billion cost to creditors. This is an insolvency rate of 78 percent. That is, 78 percent would get the creditors back. Show me an insolvency where the insolvency rate is so high that the creditors get back so much! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This means that the country's liability would be considered only for the difference – not for the whole amount, as is always misrepresented – for these €2.9 billion. If we are still considering the participation of the future fund, this €500 million, and if we are considering negotiations with the creditors, namely with those who charge a national liability – and that is not unrealistic, because these creditors do not have it so easy; they have a legal and temporary risk, and investors do not love these risks, they want them from the table, that is, they are likely to engage in haircut negotiations – even a loss in the amount of this insolvency rate remains a black zero as a result of insolvency. A black zero, no additional costs, no horror scenario, as it is always presented, and no insolvency of the country Carinthia! Above all, in such an insolvency scenario – and I would like to stress this – state liabilities are not simply deleted. State liability is not declared null and void; they are served. That is the difference, and in this case we do not have to cope with the loss of trust which you provoke in a unique way with the hypo special law. Of course, it is questionable why insolvency is not being made, why this insolvency is prevented. And there you can distinguish between the stated reasons and reasons that come a little closer to the truth. As a proposed reason, I would like to see the comparison with Lehman Brothers. It is always said that we have seen it all, we should not let a bank go into insolvency. However, what is overlooked is that Lehman Brothers has collapsed on a $600 billion debt mountain – $600 billion! At the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Austria, we are expected to expect a 15-billion-€-debakel, but not 600 billion US dollars, as with an international investment bank that had business relations up to the last corner of this globe. No one can tell me that the Hypo Alpe-Adria is causing an insolvency of this bank to collapse the global financial markets! Second suggested reason: National liability. It was said that insolvency was not possible, because there were these country bonds, otherwise everything would be easier. But I wonder why it is now, here and today. Why can this special law at once declare liability by spring null and void, where we have always been told that these country liabilities are the real problem and should not be touched? The third and last suggested reason that was put forward: an insolvency of Carinthia. It would be an automatic consequence that Carinthia goes into insolvency. This is, of course, not right, because what the Federation is now doing to assist would, of course, also be possible in such a case. If one does not want to have insolvency, then of course the Federation can always intervene and assist. The question is, what are the reasons why this insolvency of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which would cost the taxpayer much less, will prevent the truth from coming closer to the truth. The first reason: Salamitactics, which has been used so far, would no longer be sustainable. What we have experienced in recent months and years is a salami tactics. It has always been a little bit of the truth to the public. Once 100 million there, once 100 million there, it was once a billion, and so one has tried to get the whole disaster to the public in part, with the aim that the overall dimension of the public does not become aware. I do not want to hide the second reason here today either. The question is: Where did all these billions come from? They just changed the owner, they didn't disappear. We can – and we should do so – express this to the public and make it clear to the citizens where they have come from, for the Hypo Alpes-Adria is a criminal case, which is not a consequence of the financial abuse. These hypo-billions have flown to the Balkans, they have been flown to criminal and criminal gangs, and you have to explain this to the taxpayers! You have to explain to the citizens why this criminal case, why the taxpayer should now pay for billions of euros flown to criminals! That is why I am telling you that this is my appeal to you, Minister of Finance, but also to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who in this debate always turns: Stop playing insolvency without insolvency! Stop burning billions of tax money, and finally send this drama Hypo Alpe-Adria into insolvency! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3007	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Spindelegger, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3029	Madam President. Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debate that is being held today at a special session is three months too late. Three months ago, we made the decision that we would not insolve for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but we would make a special arrangement, ladies and gentlemen. But, of course, you do not mind always asking questions, and I will always be happy to answer them. But allow me to say: We have already held this debate three months ago. It's just a repetition today. In reality, we are already many steps further. It is now about the implementation of the decision taken by the Council of Ministers that we are now implementing in the form of a law. And that's much more important, because I'm on it: It is necessary that not only the taxpayers for the mortgage stand straight, but also creditors and old owners. This is a principle which I stand on and which we have also implemented in the laws that we have presented. Ladies and gentlemen, even in your urgent inquiry in the prosetext, the NEOS gives you false impressions and the impression of false processes in the chronology you have chosen. So let me repeat this once again, especially on the issues of insolvency. ==References== ==References====External links== In the same week, a big round of all who had to do with the hypo was called up by me to take the first steps before Christmas. In the first days of January 2014, I asked the Task Force to complete its report. It was also presented. That is to say, the Task Force, who had worked for half a year at that time, has also made its assessment of the case of Hypo. We then commissioned first experts to submit comments on the Task Force report. These have been presented, and there have also been doubts as to what the Task Force has worked out. I have already started to talk informally with the financial speakers of all parties in January. I can say this again: These were good conversations from my point of view. Everyone could bring in what he thought was right. And we have also tried to develop and take this into account. I should like to remind you that a supplementary opinion from the Task Force, which was commissioned by me, was received in February in order to assess and quantify the insolvency scenario in particular; it was also presented because it was important to me and I did not exclude that insolvency should be a way of resolving the hypo question. In this context, I would also like to remind you that in February 2014 the Supervisory Board Chairman, Dr. Liebscher, made a public contribution to his Supervisory Board chair on the grounds that I do not exclude the possibility of insolvency being also a possibility for the hypo. And in February 2014, I commissioned an opinion on an internationally recognised society to take into account again the issues of insolvency in quantitative terms. However, you must also mention the result. In this opinion, which I have once again explained to the financial speakers of all parties, even in many discussions, it was precisely as a conclusion not to exclude that there are risks which are previously unestimateable, namely in the parts where the bank is active, in the various countries of south-eastern Europe. And this could also have led to possible effects that there is a bank run, not only on the hypo, but on all other Austrian banks that are active there. I will close this period with March, where after intensive discussions we will also be able to discuss with the financial speakers of all parties on 14 March. On 1 March 2014 a decision was made, not insolvency, but – and I quote that –: "We will also take part in the solution of the subordinate and participation investors. In this context, we are thinking about various possibilities, including legal measures." I'll hold you once again. It is necessary that not only the taxpayer for the hypo comes up, but also subordinate believers as well as old owners, and it will be necessary to ensure that in all consequence also legal certainty. ==References== We took a decision in the Council of Ministers on June and discussed the details yesterday in the Financial Committee. How does this legislative decision now provide for the settlement? – We share Hypo Alpe-Adria International AG in three different parts. This is the part that is still active today, networks in south-eastern Europe that we have in a sale process. A second part concerns the part of Italy, which is in settlement and no longer active, and the third part is the part of the unit of decommissioning. We thus establish a Bad Bank, the piece by piece of the assets that we still have. The resolution measures: The HB Int. For the time being, there is still a credit institution. We'll deregulate it. At the latest at the end of the year and with the entry into force of the law which is now before the House, all subordinate obligations in the next five years that would have become due at that time will be cancelled in the order of € 890 million. At the same time, the liabilities of the Bayerische Landesbank, which were made after the 29th century. were added on December 2008, 800 million €, also extinct. We therefore have an order of about €1.7 billion, which will make the bank available as equity, which will enable us to stop pumping the corresponding funds from the Republic into the Bank. I should like to stress once again that this is not an individual case in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague, the chairman of the Euro Group, was the Dutch Finance Minister in Austria. There last year there was the cut of the subordinate believers. This measure has been taken in the case of similar banks, which unfortunately we in Europe are in the process. The same thing in Ireland, the same thing in Spain. So to say here that is a one-time case, that is simply not justified. And I also say to you that it is not justified to say that the Republic does not fulfil its obligations. The Republic is also naturally fulfilling its obligations in the case of the Hypo, but the Republic is not automatically liable for everything that federal states have entered into liability, thank God, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we would look different today. And that would not be good for Austria's financial centre. Another comment on the European legal situation. They give the impression that, according to the NEOS reading, there will only be a scenario for banks in difficulty in the future, namely insolvency. The exact opposite is the case! The European legal order provides that with 1. In January 2016, a new regime entered. Any bank that is then in trouble will have a barrier that the taxpayer will not have Grants exist, but it is imperative that all creditors make a contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the European regulation of the future, and I also think it is right, because one cannot make profits and give them to private owners, and if one makes losses, take advantage of the taxpayer. That is not justified. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With regard to the impact on the rating of the federal government, let me say again that we have the spreads that show us exactly how Austria claims at the financial centre as a whole. As far as the spreads are concerned, I have the data. ==References== In March, Austria was in fifth place in Europe when the decision was announced. We know that Germany always has a leading role, Austria has 37 basis points over Germany in fifth place in Europe. We have ourselves – comparison to 23. June, that is, yesterday – improved by ten basis points. I would like to say this again here in the House: It is not true that the capital market immediately reacts and downgrades Austria. On the contrary! We have improved in this regard. I can quote you even more. Yesterday, the European credit insurer Copace has upgraded Austria to the highest level. Together with the USA, Germany, Switzerland and Japan, Austria has the rating 7 and is thus one of five countries in the world that have this note. And that's not about it either. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let me come to the individual questions you have asked! Question 1: Hypo Alpe-Adria is important for the South-East European region. There it also has a network, still in five different countries. It is the seventh largest bank in Austria. But since the sale of the Austrian subsidiary, she has no more branches in Austria and is therefore no longer a system-related bank for Austria. Questions 2 and 3: In the “Kurier” of 16.6.2014 you will find no statements from me. I therefore do not know how you come to these statements. Question 3: The liability of the countries is not a liability of the federal government. There is no legal obligation to assume such liability by the Confederation. Question 4: The comprehensive model decision was made on the basis of the report of the experts represented in the Task Force. The decision on the concrete civilisation of the participation of the subordinate believers was taken together with the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery. Questions 5 and 6: The aid decision of the European Commission of 3 December 1990. September 2013 approves that possible future capital measures for Hypo Alpe-Adria may amount to a maximum of €5.4 billion in the years 2013 to 2017, up to €3.3 billion in liquidity supply. In order to cover these measures for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, as well as as as to ensure the possible need for other banking capitalisation measures, the legal framework for measures under the Financial Market Stability Act will be increased from 15 billion to 22 billion. Questions 7 to 15: No, there was no insolvency ratio calculation based on the current 2013 balance sheet of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. There is also no information on the liquidity values of the Bank's assets and liabilities. On the question 16: Negotiations are currently under way with the Bavarian Landesbank. Therefore, I also ask for understanding that today I am not making my expectations public to the Bavarian Landesbank. It would be a weakening of the Austrian position for the course of the negotiations. On the question 17: ==References== In March 2014, the Federal Government adopted the decision to set up a hypo-Alpe-Adria mine. Hiebei was also decided on the effect of a Burden Sharing with the country of Carinthia, the subordinate and participation capital and the Bavarian Landesbank in the course of a general comparison. The decision to set up the mining company is therefore a condition for the negotiations on a general comparison with Bavaria. On the question 18: The talks with the Bavarian Landesbank are still under way. The Bayerische Landesbank has not yet given its approval to the unit of decommissioning. On question 19: I expect a contribution from the country of Carinthia in the order of 500 million €. Questions 20 and 21 The Federal Ministry of Finance has an expert opinion from University Professor Dr. Bernhard Raschauer. In summary, this leads to the conclusion that the interventions in assets, private rights, provided for in this package of laws are justified by a significant public interest. Furthermore, the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office was also involved in the preparation of the bill. On the question 22: I lack the legal understanding, which is to be understood by a “principal quality of the Kärntner Landeshaftung”. If you believe that this is the legal quality of a guarantee of a federal state's default, we have an opinion on the financial procuratorship. On the question 23: The term ‘eligibility’ is not included in the mentioned Directive. Question 24: ==References====External links== In June 2014, an opinion was delivered on the possible impact of the law. It was also distributed to the members of the Financial Committee yesterday. On question 25: The Oesterreichische Nationalbank was involved in the work of the Task Force Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank, which provided the basis for the decision-making of the chosen decommissioning model. The direct involvement of the National Bank in the legal implementation work of the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Finance has not been carried out, as this is not within the scope of the Austrian National Bank. On the question 26: The Federal Ministry of Justice, together with the Federal Ministry of Finance, has drawn up the law. That is why we did not ask for an opinion in this respect, because they were involved in shaping the law themselves. On the question 27: The basis for this legal order lies in the legislation of § 1363 ABGB. On the question 28: There are ongoing discussions with credit rating agencies. Of course, during these discussions, the special legislative action was also discussed and thus answered questions from the credit rating agencies. On questions 29 to 35: It was known that there might be credit rating consequences for certain issuers. A detailed sensitivity analysis could not be carried out on the part of the Federal Ministry of Finance, because this would require the financing plans for banks and federal states in the coming years. In this context, however, it is important to assess that issues that are positive for banks and countries can be credit negative for the federal government itself. However, it is also essential that a re-evaluation of state support for banks should be expected in the run-up to the adopted EU legislation, that is, the BRRD. Furthermore, this is about the evaluation of implicit and non-exclusive support mechanisms. The information on how implicit mechanisms are assessed would be complied with by the credit rating agencies. However, I would also like to say that the judgements of credit rating agencies are opinions that should not be overrated either. I would remind you that S&P's rating action for the federal government, namely in January 2012, rated us from Triple-A to Double-A-plus, has led to the fact that interest rates and interest rates to Germany have fallen. It is precisely the opposite of what credit rating agencies wanted to express. As regards the scale of potential financial volumes in the coming years, it should be noted that the federal government itself is the largest debtor in the market. It is therefore opportune not only to think of consequences for banks and federal states, but, of course, above all to the federal government itself. And in the comments of the credit rating agencies, it is clear that no influence on the rating of the Republic of Austria is linked to our legal measures. The development of interest rates also speaks for itself. ==References====External links== In March 2014, the interest rates for ten years of Austrian federal bonds fell by 20 basis points, and the interest rate with Germany, which I have already mentioned, has been reduced by 10 basis points. On questions 36 and 37 and 57: The Bank and the experts of the Task Force estimate costs up to €4 billion. That is why I am saying this because I have never called myself concrete sums and stick to them. It depends on so many specific circumstances in the future that are not projectable today that I am not determined on a scale. On the question 38: The measures taken after the FinStaG amount to 5 550 000 000.92, of which 3 475 111 069.47, shareholder grants in the order of 250 million, liabilities in the order of 1.2 billion and others in the order of 624 888 931.45. On questions 39 and 40: The decommissioning company is expected to use the assets in the long term. The capital which has been allocated so far is subject to share-law restrictions on repayment. The capital released after the establishment of the deregulated decommissioning company as a result of the removal of the minimum capital requirements under the Banking Act is used to cover losses arising from the decommissioning activities. Question 41: The Republic has entered into a guarantee agreement with Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG with a total volume of €200 million, in which a liability was assumed as a guarantee for loans in need. A claim arising from this guarantee cannot be excluded. On question 42: Sale of SEA daughters shall be made in accordance with the restructuring plan approved by the European Commission by no later than 30. ==References== The Italian subsidiary Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank S.p.A. is not sold, but processed. On question 43: Yes, there are serious purchases. On question 44: I cannot currently assess sales revenues. This is the subject of ongoing sales negotiations which I do not wish to anticipate. On question 45: The proceeds for the Hypo Alpe-Adria Italy subsidiary depend on market conditions and potential recovery in the future. I cannot, therefore, make any speculation today about how these will develop. On question 46: The SEA holding is sold with the subsidiaries in Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, including the Republic of Srpska, Croatia and Montenegro. On questions 47 to 49: All contracts of investment banks shall be made by the owner of SEA Holding. This is Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG. Questions 50 to 55: These questions are the subject of the ongoing sales negotiations which I do not wish to anticipate. Furthermore, this is exclusively within the scope of the Bank's own activities. On question 56: ==References== On March 28, 2014, a decision by the Federal Government on the transfer of Hypo Alpe-Adria International to a deregulated mining company was taken by the Bank’s Board of Directors by letter dated 28 March 2014. In March 2014, a grant requirement of € 1.4 billion and € 35 million is necessary until September 2014. This capital injection is intended to ensure compliance with the regulatory provisions at both the level of individual institutions and the level of credit institutions until the establishment of the deregulated unit. As part of this capital requirement, a capital increase of € 750 million was already made by the Federal Government in April 2014. Any further grants of no more than € 685 million until the establishment of the unit for decommissioning are planned for the budget but are not needed at present. On question 58: I do not assume that because otherwise the FIMBAG or the FMA would have immediately informed or taken measures. On questions 59 and 60: Negotiations have already been conducted several times by State Secretary Danninger with State Councillor Schaunig and will continue in the future. On question 61: There are currently no complaints against the Federation. Comparative proceedings and other procedural positions in any court proceedings will be assessed in a particular case in due course. On question 62: That in § 3 of the Law-appointed removal of rehabilitation liabilities results in a haircut of 100 percent. That is the answer, ladies and gentlemen. Let me therefore summarize: Yes, it's a demanding task, what's on the 14th. It was promised on March that it would now be a legal situation. I agree, you can discuss whether this is the right thing to do if it would not have been any better. But: As we promised at the time, we have now implemented it. This is also necessary, because from my point of view, what is promised must also be observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3498	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of each speaker should not be longer than 10 minutes; Total speaking time per club 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3525	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Appreciate Mrs Financiary Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Dear High House! Dear taxpayers on the gallery and in front of the screens! Today, we are negotiating the special law on Hypo Alpe-Adria, this solution that is now being implemented. This is, of course, a subject that will continue to concern us for many years. We NEOS have come to Parliament as a citizen movement, as a citizen movement, and we will remain such. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr. Haselsteiner!]] And our goal is to make mentality reform in this country – a mentality reform along our key values: We want to strengthen personal responsibility in this country. We want to strengthen freedom. And we want to strengthen sustainability. There is no other singular theme in which the flaw of these three core values is as obvious as in the hypo alpe-Adria. What I want is for us to make political solutions with clarity, with veracity, with determination. And that missed the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Since 2009, since SPÖ and ÖVP have nationalized this bank, nothing has been true. It was not to be seen of clarity. And there was nothing to see of determination either. These are quite categories that can be found in politics. As I have promised to praise, I would like to mention briefly, for example, Foreign Minister Sebastian on the visit of the Turkish Prime Minister Erdoğan. - That was clear. A short while ago, it was clear here. He was determined. He was also responsible. So if you want, it's okay. But in terms of hypo, not once for a second until 2014, it was a wish not to recognize once a sense of responsibility, not to recognize a trueness as well. I agree with you, Minister of Finance, that you are now taking at least one solution. I think you're doing the wrong thing, Mr. Finance Minister, but at least you're doing something. Why you're doing something wrong, I'm still coming. I cannot leave the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany out of duty here. He is not here today, but I ask him, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to tell him that I am actually missing the words on the Federal Chancellor's position. In 2009, the Federal Chancellor found no words about the Hypo Alpe-Adria and none. I know, Minister of Finance, that you have been dealing with the issue of insolvency a few weeks ago in a time window, a few weeks ago in my perception. With today's response, I would once again see the impression that you have not been seriously concerned enough with the insolvency scenario. Question 7 and the following were answered in response to the fact that you did not look more closely at the 2013 balance sheet with a view to insolvency and not what consequences this would have. [[Vice Chancellor Spindelegger: Because we have excluded that we do one!]] – Yes, because you have excluded that you do one. And it's totally opaque how it came to this decision. You've never checked this carefully, Minister of Finance. [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] The rumors that have been given to me are that you wanted to examine an insolvency even more precisely, that there was a dinner with the President of the Federal Republic and the Chancellor of Germany and that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has said, no, we do not. I have the impression that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has said this out of agreement without examining this insolvency scenario without taking responsibility to taxpayers as well. Only to sum up this for taxpayers, especially for the young people in the gallery and in front of the screens: You'll pay this for years and decades! So far, we have invested €7.7 billion in state aid measures. 7,7 billion €! This is an annual budget for 1.1 million pupils in this country. This is more than double the science budget for 300,000 young people. We could close all colleges and universities for two years for what we have invested so far. And an even higher amount is threatening in the next few years. All of this would not have been necessary according to our calculations – we have involved external balance sheet experts – if one had taken the creditors into the drawing; of course the creditors included in the drawing. It is not up to us to privatize money and profits in good times, and in bad times we must “peck” taxpayers for it. That's not the point. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] This is not my understanding of the eco-social market economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] This is plundering the taxpayer. We are not available for this. If you insist on the eco-social market economy – and we NEOS stand by it – this is a good concept; indeed from your house, you have the copyright, but unfortunately not the quality implementation at home – when you look at the eco-social market economy, you have to say, of course: Okay, what's not proven and where the big-style dung was built, that's where responsibility has to be taken over. And insolvency is sometimes the right answer on the market. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] That's the right answer. Of course, you can also say – and that is, I believe, the attitude of Mr. Faymann, Federal Chancellor: Just don't hit any waves, just don't hit any waves. That's why four years put your head in the sand, and just don't hit any waves. We don't know what to do. Inconceivableness, courage rules here and also lack of responsibility. We don't know what we're doing, so let's move it away from us. Mrs A.D., we're moving it away from us. You were the killer in this thing, you pushed it away. [[in the direction of the Abg. Frameset]] Of course, the current Finance Minister couldn't push anymore, he's starting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] But, Minister of Finance, I consider the current solution to be crafty diletantism. This is crafty diletantism, just like you do. [[Abg. Fekter: reached!]] Of course, we should put the creditors in the drawing, but we cannot begin by saying that we take the orally secure papers first and take those creditors into the drawing that have a guarantee of a public hand. We should put everyone else in the drawing. All the others! I think you, ladies and gentlemen, have also received a letter from UNIQA, which says, okay, these millions that we are missing here are going directly to the capital stock of investors who want to secure their pension. That means: Of course, the taxpayers and taxpayers pay it, not only the billions that we are “gesting”, but also now for this section. So they're taking the wrong creditors in the drawing. I don't put that through, I don't stand it and I don't understand it either. I don't understand! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] An orderly insolvency would be the right solution. You should have done it earlier, you should have done it with more determination. What you are doing now means you combine the maximum risk for taxpayers, namely because this solution is likely to - many experts say - not to hold before the Constitutional Court or before European courts. [[Abg. Lopatka: Wrong! Absolutely wrong!]] It won't last. So you take a big risk for taxpayers now and combine it with the maximum loss of trust for the location, for the economic location Austria. [[Abg. Lopatka: Maximum Nonsens!]] That's the worst of all combinations there are! If you record on a flipchart, what could I do, what are the advantages and disadvantages?, then take exactly that combination that is the worst! [[Abg. Lopatka: But go!]] It's not Win-Win, it's Lose-Lose. [[Abg. Lopatka: You're making lots of loose!]] They run on it and say: Lose-Lose, that's my option. - I don't understand. [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] I don't understand! [[Abg. Lopatka: Strolz, Lose-Lose! Loser!]] Insolvency would have been a win-loss situation, it's not all vain wound and washing trough. I understand that, even this is complicated, with deep cuts, but that you say 'I combined the highest risk for taxpayers with the greatest damage to the economic location of Austria, I cannot accept this as a Member of Parliament. [[new interim remark from Vice-chanc Spindelegger]] [[Abg. Lopatka!]] Then add that you are not prepared to draw the consequences at other corners and ends. The next hypo, the next disaster is around the corner. And you are not prepared, for example, to introduce an insolvency right for the federal states. You don't have the mumm, not the determination, of course it's complicated, but the hypo handling is also complicated. That is why once again the motion for a resolution on insolvency law for local authorities: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, a motion for a resolution on the introduction of a modern bank insolvency or recovery right. Even there you still don't have the Bail-In and the Equity Swap in the legal bases, Germany has had that for a long time. Motion for a resolution by Mr Matthias Strolz, Mr Beate Meinl-Reisinger, Mr Rainer Hable, colleagues, on the introduction of a modern banking insolvency or rehabilitation right The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Justice is invited to submit to the National Council, taking into account the current insolvency, banking and company law, a bill for a banking insolvency or rehabilitation right corresponding to current needs. In addition to the methodology for the rehabilitation, settlement and liquidation of credit and financial institutions, the responsibilities are to be clearly defined.” Once more: The mother of skill is the will. – You are completely missing; I am not sure when I can.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3785	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3892	Mr. Klubobmann Strolz! We already have regulatory problems or interpretation problems again, because § 93 para. 4 GOG clearly provides that only that member of the government has to be present to which the request has been made. There is the quotation, which has not been required. That is why, of course, the Minister of Finance is there and not the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Stroll: I asked to deliver it to him!]] Furthermore, during the part-session there was a meeting of the EU's main committee, in which the Federal Chancellor was present for more than two hours, in which you were not present. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Listen, hear!]] [[Abg. Strolz: in the Economic Committee!]] Mr Strolz, that's just not fair. I think there should be some fairness in this House as well. Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e3950	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also discussed this law in detail within the Socialist Group. We expressly welcome the degradation unit that the Hypo Alpe-Adria or “Hypo Alpine Adria” is being settled. It was not least Andreas Schieder more than three years ago in his capacity as State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance, who first suggested that you should finally set up a Bad Bank for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Not only he but almost all the institutions of the bank, from the board of directors, from the Supervisory Board and almost all the political parties have demanded this; less than a year ago, for example, the financial spokesperson and deputy clubman of the Greens, Werner Kogler, also demanded that a Bad Bank come. He also said that this was the best of all solutions at the time. Here it comes, though late, but we expressly welcome the fact that the Hypo Alpe-Adria is being settled and that this Bad Bank is set up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We clearly say yes to a professional settlement of the bank and also clearly No to a bankruptcy of the bank, because this would also be inseparably linked to the bankruptcy of the Federal State of Carinthia. And to this bankruptcy, we clearly say no. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Who says that?]] Secondly, we also welcome the greatest possible participation by the former owners of the Bank, whose history has had several, but also with the restriction, without the immediate future prospects and the development capacity of a whole of the Federal Republic of Germany, through an excessive participation of the same massively. We think it is absolutely right for Bavaria to be involved, first of all by what is already contained in this law, but also by the steps that the Bank has already taken by looking at a large part of the loans being recognised as own resources. We support, as has been said, the greatest possible participation of the former owners, although it is already clear to us that we should never get tired of also stressing who incubated this soup, namely that the FPÖ in Carinthia is responsible for this mismanagement in this bank. This must not be forgotten, even in a debate like today, that of remembering who bears the main political responsibility for it. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Let's make an investigation committee! Then we can find out!]] This has a name and an address: FPÖ. You have to say that clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, however, it must also be mentioned that it was Chancellor Werner Faymann and SPÖ, who had already said immediately after the emergency state, that we also need to finance the cost of bank rescue, namely that the banks, which above all also benefit most from saving individual banks or the entire system, should also pay the token or at least a large part of the bill, namely the bank levy, which has also been introduced. It should also be recalled that – against the votes of the FPÖ – this bank levy has been extended and increased, because it is necessary to make it clear to taxpayers that it does not pay the bill alone, but the banks that benefit from it should, of course, pay them primarily. [[Abg. Strache: Who pays the bank charge?]] Banks should also pay for the rescue of banks and therefore yes to bank charges. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: How high are the interest rates on the savings books at present?]] We also say Yes to the participation of former owners, Yes to the bank levy, but No to the burden of Carinthia, No to put a burden on them, which they themselves cannot bear. It must not be forgotten that they still bear enough of the legacy of the FPÖ and the government of the Blues in Carinthia. What we do not need is to put three more millstones around them, because they are anyway difficult to bear on the inheritance of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Even if you say it so often, it doesn't get truer!]] I would like to expressly refer to what the experts from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, from the Austrian National Bank, and also yesterday in the Financial Committee, said that this procedure is unique, including in a unique causa, and that this creditor participation is the most budget-saving way without damaging Austria's reputation and reputation. We believe this expert is probably the best way to realize this creditor participation. Finally, I say: Yes to the settlement, Yes to the bathroom bank, Yes, that the former owners pay, and Yes to the bank charge. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4069	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4090	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! My dear Secretary of State! The decision that Finance Minister Spindelegger made was courageous, it was right, and it was quickly taken. What do I mean by courage? This decision, which has been taken here, is one that presupposes what will be a matter of course in Europe in a few years. I was myself a financial secretary when we negotiated these new directives. The Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive, which will be available in the future, has exactly this model as the basis that Finance Minister Spindelegger has chosen here. And I am telling you, if there is a special law, that is not a special case in Europe. The Minister for Finance has already referred to it: Whether in Spain, Ireland or the Netherlands, this scheme has also been adopted there. Now, all of a sudden, there are concerns. The NEOS party is in doubt that this will be legal. To calm down, I can tell you that University Professor Bernhard Raschauer – who is also used to you as a recognized specialist – has made a very clear statement on this legal question in an opinion. I make it short, his conclusion at the end: The selection of the claims concerned was plausible and objective. So so much to what you've suspected of being a arbitrator. Second: This decision was also correct, because the hypo solution discussed here today is one that actually includes exactly what you – and I will quote you afterwards – have been called for several times. We didn't do this disaster. You know exactly who we owe this hypo scandal. This is the country Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen, that was a Carinthian Landesbank. [[Abg. Podgorschek: And Pröll!]] When head of state Haider came to the government, the liability at a budget of around €2 billion was already at €4 billion, but then, when the emergency government had to be carried out, the liability was beyond €20 billion. That's the cause of this scandal. [[Abg. Kogler: It didn't have to be done! Now he's starting with it again!]] Yes, that's the cause of this scandal! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Then you agree to a committee of inquiry so that we can clarify this!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I already know that you want to take advantage of the anger of the people – and this anger of the people in Austria is right. Only: I'm sure we won't be there. We will always show who caused this hypo disaster. [[Abg. Darmann: Investigation Committee!]] What we are doing and what finance minister Spindelegger has now done within the shortest time is to keep cool. This implementation has really been well implemented. What did Minister of Finance Spindelegger do in the short time? - A casserole crash. He then examined all possible scenarios. [[Abg. Kogler: They've been sitting in the government forever, and he's talking about a cascasm! That's not to be grasped!]] He said it anyway today: It has not been excluded from him from the beginning, nothing, nor the insolvency. But there was a clear result in the evaluation. What were the points for the evaluation? Rehabilitating the damage caused. First point. Further, possibly even greater damage, and as far as possible to protect taxpayers. Against this background, we had to rule out insolvency. I am telling you why: because the risk here would have been too great. We cannot be as simple as the clubman of the NEOS party has done, and now we are talking about insolvency. This is not so easy for a responsible government party. We have come to the view that this Bad Bank solution provides a guarantee that the taxpayer will not be asked to cash out on his own. We have also prevented a federal state from going into insolvency. But we also expect Carinthia to contribute accordingly. The Burgenländer had their problems with Bank Burgenland. They had to make a much greater contribution from the country than this €500 million we requested. You can check that out. That's it. So that's not a first-time thing either. If a federal state has something to do with it, it also has to assume responsibility. I can say that very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the subordinate believers, it must be said that these were not simple citizens who saw a chance here when they took a higher investment risk, but of course they also reap higher interest rates. Therefore, it is not possible to stand down now and say: How terrible! We didn't know how the situation was in Carinthia. It was not known to us that a federal state took over €20 billion in liabilities. [[Abg. Kogler: But this is true of all believers! That's what everyone should have known!]] That is why I am already telling you one very clearly – Mr Kogler, I would ask you to pay attention – I am very surprised when the clubman of NEOS thinks we should talk to the creditors about a haircut, we should take it into account, remind them that they have benefited in good times and must now be in bad times with their co-responsibility. He said that today, and that's what he says in his blog: “In order to minimise the damage caused by the Causa Hypo to taxpayers, investors who still hold papers from the Hypo-Alpe-Adria bank should make a contribution. Whoever takes the profit in good times will also take the risk in bad times.” Yes, what does the Minister of Finance do now? - That's what he's doing now! Now suddenly you don't like it. [[Abg. Stroll: He takes the wrong!]] But you don't take anything very precise. Look, in your request, write, Maria Fekter was four years Minister of Finance. Do you know how long she was a finance minister? - Two and a half years! But You don't have to take anything so precise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: It seemed like an eternity!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Is this something good or something bad now?]] Do you really notice how much your credibility suffers: to say A today and to represent the complete opposite of A tomorrow? That's exactly the case with you. [[Abg. Shout: Don't lie!]] Klubobmann Strache, you will take the floor after me, but I would just like to remind you of what you said here in March in the House, from this speaker's desk. They have literally said: The Minister of Finance should finally ensure that the creditors who have speculated there, who have of course also known about the risk, are asked for the cash register, are also taxed accordingly and must assume their responsibility. [[Abg. Insolvency!]] [[Abg. Street: With insolvency!]] What's the Minister of Finance doing? [[Abg. Blow: No insolvency!]] - That's exactly what he's doing here! I told you earlier why insolvency was not possible. – Or would you like Carinthia to go into bankruptcy? Is that your model? Our model is certainly not that. [[Abg. Strache: Example Island! That's not true! That's a false premise!]] That is why I am telling you that on this question it was a hundred percent right what the Minister for Finance did. It was courageous to do this now, and I am glad that we decided this solution here before the summer. Not a simple task for us, but a proper decision by the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4325	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4347	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It was clear, of course, that in the course of today's debate the same lyre will be tried once again by the clubman of SPÖ, by Mr Schieder, but also by the clubman Lopatka, namely that responsibility for the hypo scandal bears the FPÖ. [[Abg. Lopatka: The arbitrator didn't talk at all, Mr. Strache! Where were you?]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Krainer! Sorry! Correction: Mr. Krainer. They are political twins, because sometimes one can be mistaken, because they always say the same thing anyway. It was Mr Krainer and Mr Lopatka who repeatedly claimed that the FPÖ was responsible for the hypo-debakel and for this whole development. So let's make it clear again. The clarification and correction is that you are right that a liability has been taken over in Carinthia – unfortunately started by an ÖVP head of state, as we have often discussed here. Yes, an ÖVP head of state has started with this. Unfortunately, this liability, initiated by an ÖVP head of state in Carinthia, was decided by ÖVP, SPÖ and the Freeman. Yeah, right, it was the FPÖ with it, like the ÖVP and the SPÖ. Yes, right, it has, unfortunately, been further increased the liability. [[Abg. Matznetter: That was a limitation of liability!]] Yes, it was the SPÖ in Carinthia, yes, it was the ÖVP in Carinthia. That means that when it comes to liability, you are there! You decided in Carinthia! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this has not yet caused the damage. What caused the damage? – We have to let revue happen once again to clarify what happened. In 2007, the bank was sold. They're talking about a Carinthian Landesbank. It was a Bavarian bank since 2007! Do not say the untruth in this House! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was from the sale a Bavarian Landesbank, starting in 2007. In 2008, Jörg Haider passed away as the head of the state, even if you have a persecution and believe he is responsible for the further development from 2008 to today. No, no, no, What caused the main damage you caused? – 2009 with a nationalization without need! You have done the damage by taking the Bavarian Landesbank into Austrian property. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was the financial crime that was committed! And who bears the main responsibility for this nationalization without need? – You as ÖVP and you as SPÖ! Not a shark and not the FPÖ. That's why you're not interested in an investigation committee either. I say that was a completely absurd nationalization under then Minister of Finance Josef Pröll in 2009, where the offence and the damage took place. And that's what you're always trying to do. With this nationalization, the risks created by the expansion course of the previous Bayern owners – not Carinthia owners, Bayern owners! – have been created, on the Austrian taxpayers. As of the date when they were majority owners, Bavaria had the bond burden of €4 billion to say and write to €12 billion exploded, the balance sheet development. In addition, the BayernLB as the former main shareholder of the Hypo Alpe-Adria granted a say in the further action of the Republic. Yes, please, what did Josef Pröll do there?- Oh, my God! In addition to a nationalization without need, with which he took care of the damage to Austrian taxpayers, instead of having to assume responsibility for Bayern, he has made sure that the Bayern have the right to decide on all decisions where we have heard today that the Bayern have not even agreed to the solution now proposed. The debate here today is completely legitimate, Minister of Finance. A decision was made in the Council of Ministers – that was a wrong decision taken there – but the decision is to be made here in the House! And she hasn't liked it yet. That is why it is perfectly right for the debate to take place today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also prevents you from being failed before a parliamentary decision is to be made. If one examines these unfavorable conditions into which the Josef Pröll introduced us as the Minister of Finance, then in December 2009, and also the revelations that have seen the light of the public a few weeks ago, according to which the Bavarian Landesbank still failed to do so on 1 January 2009. December 2009 has explicitly ruled out, yes, then this is a clear proof that it cannot have been an emergency nationalization, as you falsely and untruely claim over and over again, but just a nationalization without need. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true!]] And I wonder what the reason is that a Finance Minister Josef Pröll has given Bayern 4,5 billion to the Bayern, who now have to bear Austrian taxpayers. What's the reason? It's all clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I ask you: Who was in charge, even for the inactivity, since 2009, since you have nationalized without need? Yeah, who was that? Was that the haider? No, he wasn't there at all! Was that the FPÖ? No, it wasn't in the government! That was You of ÖVP and SPÖ, which you have been until today, 2014, nothing – nothing! – have made, which has further increased the amount of damage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the representatives of the Republic knew that no insolvency with the Bavarian majority owner, the Landesbank, threatens, then why did they nationalise the hypo at that time? And why do you put up with the most expensive and worst solution for the Austrian taxpayer? This question has to be clarified. Of course, there are many examples of the fact that different variants have already been lived in Europe in the event of banking crises. But you might also be able to quote the Icelandic model. The Icelandic model has shown that it may be reasonable, as experts have suggested, to send a bank into insolvency. And I wonder, Where's your consequence? To date, there is no separation banking system. To date, there are no insolvency and bankruptcy rules for banks. We need all of this as a consequence of these developments. But nothing like that is foreseeable. I wonder, What were the real motives of former Finance Minister Josef Pröll at the time, and also of the then Secretary of State for Finance, who, of course, was also co-responsible? Since 2009, the damage has been proven by these actions. Due to the lack of time until 2014, the damage has continued to grow, and due to your current solution, the damage to the taxpayer is so correct to explode. And that's exactly what's left unexplained and also researched. That's why you avoid any investigation: because you know that your responsibility is coming over this period and no one else. And you can claim the opposite a hundred times. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] I say that in view of these documents which have now appeared, a committee of inquiry is more urgent than ever. There are some questions to be resolved: Who caused this nationalization scandal? Who are those responsible? Were there legal errors of those responsible who implemented and negotiated this at the time? Are there any personal responsibilities? That's to be clear! The partial solution with a creditor's stake of 890 million, as the colleague Strolz has also pointed out, is yes, in the way you do, it is ultimately only the taxpayers and not the creditors. And that's why, if you're already taking my quote, Mr. Lopatka, it was my proposal: Let's make an insolvency! Let's make a bankruptcy, an orderly insolvency like in Iceland back then! At that time, Iceland not only rehabilitated the banks but also rehabilitated the state. Yes, such examples can also be tried. And then the right ones came to the handcushion. In fact, the bank managers are also sitting behind the castle and bars, behind bars, as is unfortunately the case with us today only in one, two examples, but not in the other. – How many responsible managers of the Hypo are still running around today, who have dealt with criminal deals with South-East Europe and are not yet interested? If one now takes this creditor, one must also say that the total liabilities of the creditors make up €19 billion. You can only call that a bad joke if you say that the creditors are now drawn to it. How do taxpayers get to assume permanent responsibility of managers by permanently turning the failure of managers and bank majority owners over to taxpayers?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The haircut's too late, he's far too low! This is proven to be the worst solution for taxpayers. But that's no wonder because you see the taxpayer in all areas always only as a milk cow. [[Abg. Wheeler: Carinthia, Haider!]] According to the draft law, the total allowable amount of measures taken under the Financial Market Stability Act will now be increased from 15 billion to 22 billion. This, of course, will continue to burden taxpayers. Interesting in the context is also that you are constantly talking about the international experts you have used as an advisor there, where we know that there are colported consultants of over €450 million. Yeah, where's their performance? Where did they save the taxpayer some money with their deliberations? Nothing except that they have stuffed their pockets with your orders that you have given to these rulers. This question must also be raised, it should also be clarified in an investigation committee. The same is true of the mining company, where, of course, the bodies will be buried in the basement. If we had made an insolvency, we could have excavated the bodies, we could have discovered where the sours were running, we could have continued to set in motion legal mechanisms, in addition to a Parliament's Enlightenment. We have already asked for countless times, 18 times a committee of inquiry here in this House, and you have already rejected it 18 times. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We are clearly expressing our support for orderly insolvency – and I come to the conclusion – but I say that you are unfortunately not interested in a best solution for the taxpayer. I wonder what interests you serve. – This too will have to be found in the investigation committee in the future. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[16:20]] [[16:20:45]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4513	I'm advocating deputies Podgorschek, Mag. Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested a Committee of Inquiry to examine political responsibility for the operations relating to the use of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be taken after completion of the agenda. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4548	Madam President, I should like to add that the opposition expects the government to vote in favour of this vote on the setting up of a committee of inquiry, which corresponds precisely to this subject, because we will make a request for a secret vote. This leads exactly to what matter is here. I am not sure if, so to speak, all on the one hand their intellect – I assume – but above all their conscience – that is sometimes difficult – to use whether for this hypo-separate law – a huge convoluted one, we will treat it in two weeks, I do not want to go into it in detail today – we would have a secret vote, the majority – intellect and conscience turned on in advance, that we want to assume – would not be very dangerous. I can now deal with what has already been offered here in terms of keywords. Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, like in budgetary contexts, has explained very courageously that you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, had made a casserole crash. That's great! The ÖVP is – I can't count anymore, what I know for a long time in the government – decisive, decisive!, involved in the hypo-debakel, and then we are told here that it is a great progress if we now have a finance minister who once organizes a case crash. It's a little makin'. If you want to say that Mr. Vice-Chancellor once or there is attacking and going to action, I do not want to contradict that. But a casserole? I'm sorry, but how many times have we discussed in here and pointed out what is threatening here. You kept it under the table, you took all the solutions away. Wish what solution, everyone would have been better than now, everyone! Yes, we confess that we also loved parts of what is being proposed here years ago. But we've already spilled so much milk that other solutions have been more useful for a long time. That is why it will very well be about the orderly insolvency solution with creditor participation versus what is proposed here. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] But let's stay at the call of the Cassas. It's also been striking again. Obviously, one does not get around constantly trying or wanting to do the whole story. I believe that the establishment of a committee of inquiry is already a minority right alone, so that we can finally experience that the club members of ÖVP and SPÖ are allowed to comment on this whole calendarium, because they never see anything else than to point out to everyone else, but to recognize nothing in themselves. About Calendarium: They obviously have a traumatic Christmas experience 2009. December 2009 has been removed from its Advent calendar, it always disappears in its list. At that time, however, they did this so-called nationalization, which basically infused us back, which was first broken in Carinthia – and yes, I actually use the word. That, yeah, but what's happened to anyone here that could have happened at all? If you're already strapating this, you'll have to listen to it again on the occasion: More and more facts are pressing the light, more and more documents that prove how sloppy, how sloppy, how irresponsibly the then head of government – and for a long time a red-black at the federal level – has acted here and imported the problem in a way, and – now not only with several billions, as it has always been, but with a total damage of over €10 billion – has ended up with the taxpayer you want to sink with this solution somewhere. Now it becomes interesting from the dimension, I think. The last week or the last ten days have led to the fact that everything has gone wrong in the public – once again on a complex topic. It has been given the impression that suddenly the government is doing exactly what the opposition would have called for. You're actually wondering what's going on behind the scenes within the government, why suddenly everything should be different. Some of this has already been kept. Suddenly, however, creditor participation, suddenly the rating agencies are not so important – I give you the right one too – that is all of a sudden. It's easy to explain what happened here. It is tried – and I know that; I know that in the black and white world, this always leads to misunderstandings, but I am saying it, I recognize the attempt – at least in a very small part of the creditors' money. I recognize that I do, but it is organized on a formal level that allows the whole thing to be eliminated anyway. Then we have nothing at all and only the damage. If you wanted to think – I am not doing this to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor – you might already have the wrong advisers around you. I mean, we have a certain history to find. Since the Task Force played such an important role, you always have to accept the worse. So maybe we'll get back in the wrong direction. If one wanted to discredit creditors' participation, perhaps one should have done so. Somehow, suddenly, the impression arises – even the media are invited to look a little more closely – as if this would now be organized, what reasonable people have always demanded, and suddenly we have the debate, well, now all pay. – Nothing is with it! Let's take a look at this! If, first of all, the total damage at the end will amount to well over €10 billion – we estimate to be more than 12.13 billion, unfortunately; to remember: 5.5 billion have already been sunk successfully – if, at the same time, the balance sheet amounts still exist, or only the example of the bonds that are held with Carinthian liabilities – there are certainly senior bonds and subordinate creditors, nevertheless – then there are over 12 billion, and 890 million are turning the debate. That's far below 10 percent, and that's actually the problem: For possibly 10 percent of creditors, we deal with well over 90 percent of the Zinnob, which is of course connected with it. That is why we do not abandon the alternative, Mr Vice-Chancellor! It may already be that the government, with its just-yet-majority in March, decided to exclude the insolvency – by the way, it will be an additional chapter in the committee of inquiry, as it could be that the insolvency is excluded, certain opinions were still organized, but were in truth pushed away from their opponents and suddenly suddenly the insolvency as a topic disappeared suddenly and only more of the other variant you are defending, because you are still trying something in a small area. In reality, this also creates more problems than solutions. That's the current situation in the whole thing. That is why it would be much more reasonable to achieve what you claim, want to achieve, or perhaps really want to achieve, and to organize the creditor's interests with the admittedly shady but well-proven Austrian insolvency law. There is an orderly insolvency procedure – and then it turns out what the subordinate creditors get or don't. Probably nothing if you calculate, but it doesn't have to be. But it's important that everyone gets into the drawing. Let us once again imagine the dimensions: € 12.3 billion versus € 890 million! Argument Now You have already said that you should not shout – but only in terms of the € 890 million – because you should have known that the liabilities of Carinthia are not worth anything. Argument Now You suddenly do, and you're right, but why isn't that true for everyone? It is also true that ten, 15 years ago, the creditors who invested had to know, from now on, that they were investing in a pyramid game, in the Mafia box, not a regional good bank. [[Congratulations with Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] And this is the problem: that the taxpayer is now being used to carry billions of the Balkan Mafia out of his own pocket. They are not serious and well-belief, who invested at the time, liability to or from here! There's something else to do with that. Who believed that Carinthia could ever really be held? Even if one assumes that a bankruptcy procedure would be opened over the country of Carinthia – there is nothing to get! What reason? You're there, aren't you? If this were such a big concern to you, why didn't you, at the same time as this so-called emergency nationalization – which was not at all – decide on an insolvency right for the federal states? The request is located here in the house, we raised everything a few days before the emergency nationalization. Since we already knew what you're going to do – of course – we have made this request, and you have rejected it. [[Abg. Wheeler: Here you go!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS, as well as with members of the FPÖ.]] To date, there is no insolvency right for federal states, so we have to fight around with the existing insolvency order. But this too is not a world downfall, quite the contrary, we would come to an end. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign]] You'll find a solution that looks like it's pretending to be, but it leaves the very big questions outside, and at the little doctors you're around. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Look, the hypo thing is such a fig, and behind the little cock you'll snap around now and cash the tin to an extent as if you'd liquidate the entire bank. [[the speaker spreads out both arms to illustrate a size]] Unfortunately, this is not the case, and that is why it should be done differently, namely, as we propose. This is true today as it was in March.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4634	The president of the club, Dr. Nachbaur, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4657	Madam President. Dear government representatives! Colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers and sufferers of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria-Desaster! As the government has been dealing with this bank from the very beginning, it is actually systematically showing how it is leading this country because it is obviously unable to solve problems. A bank was saved with taxpayers, although the main shareholder, namely Bavaria at the time, had never let them go into bankruptcy anyway, as can be clearly seen from documents that have now appeared. Also interesting is: Shortly after the nationalisation of the bank, the then board of directors said that the bank now needs a grant and that a second grant will be needed, but the bank will lose profits by 2011 at the latest. At the time, the competent Finance Minister explained to taxpayers several times that bank rescue has the potential for a good business, similar to the rescue of Greece. Hardly was the election over, no one could suddenly explain why, instead of the hoped-for profits, more aid from the taxpayers suddenly became due. No one could define the extent. Almost after the election, it was suddenly said of several billions. This non-information before the election is actually very close to the electoral fraud. This is similar to the budget hole, even this is strangely only appeared shortly after the election. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Fekter: The aid decision was before the election!]] All these scandalous processes and these many billions point to one thing: It would be a minimum of democracy policy to allow a committee of inquiry now. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] But let us now come to the quality of the work of this disaster! The establishment solution, which is now available – according to the own supervisory councils of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank – has been dragged away by politics over years. It has resulted in a billion-dollar damage that is solely due to red and black, which are also the government today, though with another occupation. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true!]] [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] Now we have the same solution that we could have had years ago, but now it is billions more expensive. In similar cases, ‘normal’ citizens in court are likely to have to answer for bankruptcy and infringements against insolvency law and share law. This is the difference between politicians in the protected area and quite normal people. These may already be in court, but there are no consequences for politicians. – Dear taxpayers, you need to know that you have very different rules from those of the government politicians! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I do not understand to this day why the government has not chosen the best solution for the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank in my opinion, provided that one can speak of a best solution at all at this low-burned House of Hypo Alpe-Adria. I think the government should have made an exchange offer under credible threat of insolvency, so that one could have reached a haircut of around 50 percent or more over the maturity and interest rate of federal bonds rather than national bonds with a real high probability. The bank should have been sold to the private best bidder. A company specialized in settlements would have taken over this safely. I can tell you that more than 3,000 banks have been handled in the US – and this has not cost taxpayers a penny! But this train's gone now. All in all: The current situation is very unsatisfactory. There is now a very unconventional solution, packed into a truly strange special law. The fact that creditors are to be involved in the damage is, in principle, very good, Mr Finanzminister! If you want to limit taxpayers in their damage in the area of the possible, if you want to achieve this with this special law, then I welcome it in principle, then you have my support, but no one can understand what is causing you to do damage to Austria's financial centre. Or_ientation may be They are at the image damage of the economic location Austria, which has already manifested itself, because Austria is known throughout the world as a high tax country in which work is hardly yet worth working, in which there is hardly any difference between working and not working. The only attractive at the Austrian economic location are the skilled entrepreneurs and the skilled workers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] These are you, dear taxpayers, but that you work so hard, for that the government politicians can't thank God. But back to the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. Qualified creditors, who know exactly what they are buying, are at least less safe than those taxpayers who can't do anything for it except that they have largely chosen red-black. Miss economy and constant tax increases are also a way of thanking voters. Because: We were well guided by the crisis, how to hear it regularly. – Dear voters and taxpayers, you need to know that Austria is the only country in the world that has not solved the problem with national banks from the financial crisis until today. The Hypo Alpe-Adria bank is not the only problem, there will be more, and that will cost us a lot more money. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] As I said, in principle, I think it is good to involve the creditors at least as far as possible in the loss and thereby relieve taxpayers, but this regulation seems very arbitrary to take some into duty and to leave others outside. The basic problem: Why did the public hand take over any liability for participation capital at all? Participation capital has a fixed interest rate, but repayment always depends on whether the bank makes losses or not, for participation capital is part of equity, and this always takes part in the profit or loss of society. So if a bank argues, then equity is gone first; theoretically, just like any company. Of course, participation capital should also be gone, but in Austria and only in Austria there is a very special phenomenon: It comes into play with the public hand and assumes a guarantee for the investors of participation capital. Why are own resources, which bring a higher interest rate and also a higher risk – that is, they have to take part in the potential loss – guaranteed by public authorities at all? That's as if the state assumes liability at the Roulette table, and when red or black comes, it's called paying. What an image: Red or black means pay. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This instrument, which the taxpayer is liable for, for qualified creditors who enter a risky business because of the attractive interest rate, is the bright madness! Private risk transfer towards State and taxpayer! The lawyers are already rubbing their hands with regard to these transactions they can do now. But even now, probably by 10 percent, the hedge funds are buying up these papers with the national liability at really good prices, in order to make fat profits at the expense of taxpayers. The hedge funds and speculators, the international investors, are carved from a different wood than the politicians – they adhere to the laws that most Austrian politicians do not know at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Are you a politician?]] It could almost be thought that Austria is becoming a super speculant Mecca, just as it has been successfully presented in Salzburg, Linz and Vienna. [[Abg. Wheeler: What are you? Are you a politician?]] Once the money is speculated away, you quickly introduce the so-called millionaire tax, which becomes a mass tax to stop the budget holes. So how do you make it absolutely clear that you want to ask those creditors to check out, who have bought national-secured subordinate bonds, which were issued between 2002 and 2007 and run exactly until 2017? In fact, there are other subordinated bonds, which are not country-backed but state-backed, to a value of approximately € 1 billion. These do not take part in the loss, only the Carinthian, and not all there, because there are some who run longer than until 2019. So all in all, it's pretty illogical and annoying for the financial centre. But I have the feeling that this has already been done, because the Austrian financial centre is currently being damaged at all corners and ends. Just think of the financial transaction tax that is bad for the Vienna Stock Exchange! Think of the banking tax New, which only taxes the lending and not the speculations! Think of the “GmbH light”, which is no longer “light”! Think of the house builders who trust that they can invest there, and then perhaps soon a new tax will come and eat them all away! We have a problem with legal certainty in Austria. This is a huge damage to our country. As far as the proposed solution is concerned: I doubt that the chosen approach with its selective creditor participation will hold. But let's learn at least something from this hypo-alpe-Adria disaster! And that's... We need a reasonable insolvency right for banks. [[President Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We need a reasonable insolvency right for local authorities. We need to know: Too big to fail! – This must also apply in Austria. In addition: The federalism problem is solved. We do not know at all what is still buried in the countries and communities. And in the end: The state should roll out the red carpet for entrepreneurs and the working people in our country – not the hedge funds and speculators! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4803	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4824	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Before I come to my speech, I would like to say something: Madam President, we already know that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if we put a urgent question to the Minister of Finance at a special meeting, the Federal Chancellor does not have the obligation to come here. It is a general remark: I think there are a lot of people who share the opinion that the German Chancellor – let us say so – is a little on the dive site when it comes to hypo. It must also be remembered that he was also German Chancellor at the time of the emergency, and it is actually incredible that this Federal Chancellor, who also this scandal with this It is not only about the Causa fine; of course it is also about the country's liability and the bloating, about that – how did you say? [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] – Mafia – and you are quite right, it has simply been a criminal power to blow this bank up – but of course there is also a lot of this problem in this emergency state. [[New call for tender Frameset]] And whenever it comes to this issue, the Federal Chancellor dives. I would also like to remind you that the next day, after it became clear that the Austrian banks will not participate in this hypo-processing, the Federal Chancellor and also Mr. Vice-Chancellor left the press foyer of the Council of Ministers at all, and the ministers Karmasin and Heinisch-Hosek had to bathe out and answer the questions of journalists who were, of course, legitimately asked. So I think it is quite legitimate to say that the Federal Chancellor does not appear wordably in this causa. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Blow!]] Furthermore, I would like to say that we were, of course, represented in the EU's main committee, and Mr Hable was there. Unfortunately, we have a strong political group, where only one member of the NEOS can be in a committee – that is only to have made this clear. Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, it's a bit funny if you're holding our Clubman Strolz that he said something else a few weeks ago when he actually repeated it here. So you should have listened attentively. Of course, we share the objective that the creditors will be involved, completely clear, because, of course, even if the law says ABGB is that the bonds are mouth-proof, because there are national liabilitys on it, we feel that this is not fair, because, because of the criminal inflatation of this mortgage, but of course also because of the sum of the liabilities that have been entered into this federal country, we could actually refrain from the fact that there is no real security. But the reason why we have called for this special meeting and why we are now criticising this law in this form is as follows: We have a very massive fear that this special law not only endangers Austria's financial centre, but also, above all, the confidence of the economy, investors and, in general, people in Austrian politics. It's one thing to share the goal, but another thing to do crafty something bad. I come to the first point, which has already been discussed in the media, namely the legal basis of this law. This law is an occasion law and is lacking a solid legal basis. If you initiate the law with the words: ‘This Federal Act is intended to implement measures pursuant to Directive 2001/24/EC of the 4. April 2001’, it is simply not right because this directive has already been implemented; it is not necessary to implement it again, it already exists. This Directive does not contain any substantive right, that is to say, this Directive does not lay down any rules on how, and in what form, to intervene in genuine claims. This Directive says that for the admissibility of rehabilitation measures – and in this context, it is also a question of whether it is a rehabilitation measure if one creates a decommissioning bank; there is no guarantee that there is no continuation – the respective national law is essential and is to be recognised by the other Member States. This is not a bad legal basis for this law! Let's go on: What is the national law, the applicable law in Austria? – This is, of course, the federal constitution. It may be that there is this opinion by Professor Raschauer, but there are other opinions that show massive doubts that this law will be held before the Constitutional Court in the present form, with the participation of these creditors and the massive intervention in the constitutional principle of trust protection and, ultimately, in the protection of property. In doing so, you damage the reputation of the Austrian financial centre, you encroach on constitutional property rights, and you damage the trust or trust that is also guaranteed by the Constitution. At the end of 2013, Deloitte, in a senior executive survey, concluded that Austria is falling back in location attractiveness to other Central European countries. And the interesting thing is that it is not because of the legal framework that prevails in Austria, but because of lack of legal certainty. Here's what's interesting – look at this! –: In the last five years, the Constitutional Court has repealed 234 provisions, i.e. laws or parts of laws – laws that this Federal Government has made! I emphasize: 234! We, but not only we, but also well-known law firms, who, of course, are already rubbing their hands in the face of the fact that this law is likely to be very lucrative, claim that this law will be included in these 234 provisions that have been repealed. There are also concerns about the consistency with the European Convention on Human Rights, because there is always the demand in the area: If I'm expropriating someone, I'll have to compensate him appropriately! But doing that You're not here! Because today it has been bonded to other European solutions: On this point, it is indeed unprecedented what is happening here because there is no quota offered and because there is no other justified state emergency. We are not yet talking about a total collapse of the economy, even though in addition to this hypo disaster other banking crises, as has already been said today, will threaten. I would remind you that here in this House we also need to deal with the ÖVAG very intensively, so that what is to be done with the ÖVAG. I now come to an issue which has already been raised today: We have again tabled a request for an insolvency right for local authorities. It is quite clear that the federal states will also suffer through this law. You are already doing it now, because the rating of four federal states has already been lowered, but of course here is also a problem: From the beginning – Or it has been threatened; [[Interference of vice chancellor spindlelegger.]] Standard & Poor's threatened it. [[Vice chancellor Spindelegger: It is a difference whether you say: downgraded or whether you say: threatened!]] – Well, then we'll wait for it to happen in July. [[New interim remark from Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger.]] - Yeah, that's right, but we'll see. In this context, it should also be said: That is exactly what you have always warned us about when we said – and we have predicted it – that there should be a proper insolvency procedure, one can handle it properly and then all creditors can participate. But that's where you said you could do that. You don't do it, because maybe the rating of the federal states will be put in jeopardy. And now, Zack, exactly the same thing happens! What I wanted to say: We do not know what kind of liability threatens in the federal states, what volume this has in total. OeNB Governor Novotny spoke yesterday of €77.2 billion, for which the countries and the municipalities still have to be held liable and, of course, in the case of crisis – that is, in the case of crisis, of course, the taxpayers! That is why we are making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I put another motion for a resolution, because these liabilities of the country of Carinthia have been a fundamental evil. And it has also been a fundamental evil that a country captain – and other parties have participated – has held a bank to finance various projects. In the same way, it is a fundamental structural error of Austrian federalism that the federal states have to spend the money and the federal government has to lift it. That is one of the reasons why Austria is budgetaryly as it is at present. That means that we urgently need a debate on federalism reform. In addition, we will again today – daily the Murmeltier greets, but sometimes you have to say things several times, perhaps 21 times – to apply for the setting up of a U committee. It would be urgent for you to finally agree. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e4970	The motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5057	Once again, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger: It is not about criticizing a member of the Federal Government, but about what is right here in the House. That's what I asked for! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Brosz.]] Now again: We're in a special meeting today. As President, I have to adopt this special meeting within seven working days. We can choose it: We are looking for an appointment for all political groups, or we are looking for an appointment for the members of the government to come. And it has always been agreed that at the special meetings, of course, the member of the government to which the urgent request is addressed is addressed. And that's what I've made clear. I hope that it will continue in the future, because otherwise special meetings will become very, very difficult to organize. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5105	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators here in the ranks and in front of the screens! The Hypo Alpe-Adria bank is the largest financial debacle in the Second Republic – caused by FPÖ and hanged by all people in that country. What we decide today is the best solution for all bad solutions; I say so. I too am not only happy with this situation. Who could that be? But we are here today to act responsibly, especially since the ego of many political actors is still greater than the real solution competence. I'm glad it's coming to the decommissioning bank now. And I am also glad that I am not alone in this, because an unprocessed crisis bank would have cost more massively. “The Deputy Federal Minister of the Greens, Mr Kogler, calls on the Federal Government to make its own Bad Bank law as soon as possible, so that the bad assets of the non-state-based Carinthian Hypo Alpe Adria Bank can be reduced as tax-saving as possible.” “Standard”, 28. May. 2013................................................................................................. Mr Kogler, I thank you here for your support in this area. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh! It's not happening!]] Or let me say it with the words of Mrs. Rebauber from the Stronach team: Insolvency would have been ‘the most natural solution’. However, in view of the complex liability structure that would “severely burden taxpayers in this case”, it supported the solution announced by Spindelegger in the Causa Hypo...” – From the ORF of 14. ==References== At that time, the law was passed. Overall, however, I am pleased that there is a broad majority here in the house who supports a responsible solution, because whoever asks for further experiments here and now has not learned anything from the debacle. Or how has the FP chief of Carinthia correctly expressed it: A ‘institutional solution’ is the ‘only meaningful solution’. Everything else wouldn't be responsible! I would like to thank you for the approval of NEOS. I am also of the opinion that the taxpayer is not allowed to face the full cost. In March, Mr Strolz said – I quote – that: “Of course we have to get the creditors in. So Bail-in is the foreign exchange. This is also an important lesson. This is how the market economy works. We can not only choose the raisins, but if you “build” sh in a large style – I don’t say that now, because that would be a call for order – “take responsibility also.” In my opinion, this interplay of opinions is really unresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Think about your role, think about dealing responsibly with your mandate! Only insolvency to go cheaply-populistically to vote cannot be supported. This is exactly the path of the past that the Carinthian Hypo has lived before us and which has also led to the hypo-debakel. Insolvency of the mortgage bank is equivalent to the bankruptcy of the federal state of Carinthia. You would like to send 550 000 people and their federal states into bankruptcy? Is that an answer? Mr Hable von den NEOS, you were confirmed yesterday by the experts in the committee: According to § 1356, a mass manager should have been able to use the transfer power immediately, yes. In other words: House, car, apartment and the training of children would have been put in jeopardy. [[Abg. Stroll holds a table with the inscription “Do not vote! ”]] You want to risk that? Not with me and not with the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Responsible policy is more than just economic action. Living responsible policies means more than satisfying one's own ego. Responsible policy means being there for people in Carinthia and in Austria and not vice versa. And responsible policy must not be based solely on credit rating agencies, but on the responsibility for which we have been elected. And if you look at the ratings, you can see that Austrian banks have been downgraded by a netsch in the recent past, but not Austria as a state. The reason is the whole – that my colleague Lopatka mentioned already – in the BRRD, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive. This is an EU directive that needs to be implemented by 2016. It has the content that creditors will also be possible in the future. We have done nothing but prefer this. And this downgrading will certainly meet most European banks in the future and is not a hypo-specific. Nothing can prevent me from taking a responsible course. And I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to remember: Market writing may belong to our business, but this is not about lazy apples, here it is about responsible handling of people's money in this country, which we only borrowed. I too must be able to rely on and rely on the knowledge of the experts from the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and Minister Spindelegger in this decision. But all these experts confirm to me in personal discussions and in Hearings that under these really difficult and unfavorable conditions the path now decided is the best possible. If we are already talking about responsibility, let me conclude by saying one more thing: Mr Strache pointed out all the blame he had on him earlier. I would just like to remind you very quickly that the former chairman of the Kärntner Investigation Committee, Holub of the Greens, has said that the sole responsibility of the financial referents Dobernig, Pipeberger and Haider is the sole responsibility. They all know for themselves what party the three belong to. We can, and now I come to the conclusion, not forget one, namely who is guilty of this hypo-debakel. [[Abg. Haider: The Pröll! That's the pomp!]] You know, Mrs Gartelgruber: FPÖ! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5196	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5220	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Government members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The hypo is well known for three topics: first, major challenges – then the search for three letters that are correct – second, the search for the best possible solution and third, the most efficient possible implementation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] First point: Hypo is probably one of the largest construction sites in the Second Republic. This construction site is clearly in Carinthia, and for the sake of good order it is necessary, I think, to hold it at this point too: It is and was a liberal disaster, you can say that quite quietly. [[Call the SPÖ: You can say it loud too!]] And to Mr. Klubobmann Strache: Please don't let Jörg Haider's performance and position narrow down, he had the country of Carinthia under control, he had the primary responsibility – so we don't get past that, just to clarify it quite objectively again. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Mr Colleague, no problem! Let's make an investigation committee!]] The Federal Government, led by the Minister of Finance, has taken over the management of the Carinthian disaster. The second point is the search for the best possible solution: We can remember that from January to February, two short months ago, feverishly all the solutions were examined, with the Taskforce, with external experts and consultants in just under two months, the basis for decision-making and finally the decisions made. It is right to ask again and again why hypo is not going a little faster. This is where the speed of implementation has been as desired by the House. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In concrete terms, the National Council then decided in March that there is no insolvency but that a preparatory law for the realization of the mining society should be drawn up. And only the good order half, here also to the memory for all insolvency lovers: What would have happened if we had sent the Hypo Alpe-Adria to insolvency? – You can remember: inconceivable and incalculable consequences for Carinthia and, subsequently, the Republic, liability of 12 billion € were still outstanding at the time, not to be forgotten reputation loss, et cetera, et cetera. So now, after the decisions have been taken, it is about the efficient, the best possible implementation. It is important here that the mining society has enough time to carry out an orderly reduction. You know, just in connection with the Balkan bank network of the hypo, the sandwatch is already running. ==References== ==References====External links== Now, a decision-making process at the beginning of July also appears to have been implemented according to the time pressure. The mining company can thus begin its work immediately after the summer. And of course you have to presend something at this point: The Minister of Finance had the highest premise to relieve the taxpayer. The Hypo-Rehabilitation Act brings the legal basis for the mining society, deregulation and all these topics, and of course also a great pressure on Bavaria. That is, I think, a very essential point where the total amount is €6 billion, all in all, including the cut-off of company loans. I do not want to hide at this point that the so-called Haircut, or as I sometimes call it “headcut”, also brings critical consequences to the financial market for the subordinate believers, or at least could bring with it. We know the OeNB's opinion on this, and of course this factor makes everyone thinking about the financial markets more closely when it comes to the decision-making process. But, ladies and gentlemen, when we draw a summary together, we see the following: The Minister for Finance has, and the whole subject is based on it, primarily on the right decision not to bring about insolvency. This one was supposed to avoid. Of course, the law on the reorganisation and implementation of the decommissioning has some kind of accompanying appearance, but the Minister of Finance has postulated the discharge of the taxpayer as the top priority. That is why, in this context, we also take the OeNB's notes in its letter, in its opinion. It is already necessary – and I believe this is a very essential point – to have a clear public opinion by the Federal Government, which has already taken place, but it must be repeated that this is an absolute special measure, in the case of Hypo, which is not a precedent for other liabilities of the countries and local authorities. In this context, of course, it is not only an individual case, but also a matter of continuing to implement the appropriate measures in the future in order to further strengthen confidence in Austrian finances, in the Austrian financial market. There are still other ways that we can devote ourselves to; and I am confident that the Austrian Federal Government, the Vice-Chancellor, makes it clear that it is also devoted to this subject with full attention. By the way, and this is my final rate, we see the same approach here on hypo as on tax reform. The focus of the decisions is always on the well-being of taxpayers. We want to relieve these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5279	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5300	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To address my previous speaker: Mr Zakostelsky, the co-responsible Jörg Haiders has never been denied by us, I have always articulated this from this point of view. [[Call at the SPÖ: He was already at the FPÖ!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Tamandl: He was already at the FPÖ!? Thank you, FPÖ!]] It is enough for you to agree today to our request to set up an investigation committee, and then we can clarify all the responsibilities, not only from 2000 to 2007 but also from 2007 to 2009 under Bavarian ownership and then under the ownership of the federal government from 2009 onwards! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Blow: Thank you, ÖVP!]] Mr Unterrainer, I should also like to say something about your comments: I would recommend that you change your text blocks, because you stayed stuck in 2007, but since then you have changed a lot. But the phobia you show the FPÖ should result from the results of the elections you have in Tyrol. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was at this hearing yesterday, where four experts have argued differently and partly even diametrically whether or not the hypo-alpe-Adria would be a reasonable insolvency. And there have been some very interesting statements. I am actually surprised that my previous speakers have not yet responded to it at all, for it has just occurred quite openly that, of course, insolvency would have been an option and still is. The well-known Dr. Kleiner, who has already written an expertise for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, has clearly stated that, in addition to insolvency law, the Banking Act could also be applied or applied, because there are clear procedures, and the FMA could certainly take over the supervision of business. One would have had twelve months to agree with the creditors, perhaps to reach an extrajudicial quota – and if not, a reorganisation process does not yet mean the bankruptcy of a bank. So that would have been some perspective to question. A very interesting remark has also been made, and we should always consider this: The financial markets live on the tricks! – That is exactly what it is that we politicians sometimes think much too straight and the financial markets simply overtake us on the right, on the left, on the top or on the bottom. We should always consider that! To this law, the Hypo-Alpe-Adria Rehabilitation Act, one could of course say now that the risk is basically – and that has already been suggested by my previous speakers – the same size as in the case of insolvency, so one could have done so. Perhaps this is why the government is also insolvent because it has ruled into the bank for many years and would have been liable as a result. This too is an aspect that cannot be rejected by hand. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Calls and calls between Abg. Streets and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day, however, a judicial procedure would, in our view, be much better lifted than it is at the present time. The government expert has boasted that he has significantly influenced this law. This expert, of course, has constantly brought this horror scenario, which we have heard again today, of these state liabilitys which would be due immediately, and Carinthia would plead; a threat scene was built up. In the end, however, this has been contradicted by the other experts from my point of view. Then there was another fourth expert, that was the unknown Governor Novotny. I can only say that he spoke a lot but unfortunately nothing said in the Committee as often as he did. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say one thing: Voices It refers to today's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, 21. Request, please! The population has a right to light coming into the dark. This is a task of our Members; yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have the duty to control, at the end of the day also in the sense of the people, the taxpayer, where mistakes have occurred and where abuses have been detected. If you vote against it again today, then you are on the side of the roofers and those who do not want everything to get into the light of light. Take on your responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5385	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5408	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Well, if I look back in the history of the hypo, it's clear: The epicenter is already located in Carinthia, and there is the FPÖ, but of course other parties are also responsible for expanding the liability – SPÖ, ÖVP! – Of course they are! [[Abg. Matznetter: No! That's wrong!]] You can abdicate this a thousand times, but that's how it was. If we look at the fate of this bank since the outbreak of the financial crisis, it was actually a single disaster from A to Z, which is solely responsible for Finance Ministers of the ÖVP. In the beginning it was still Mr. Molterer. Later it was Mr Pröll, then Mrs Fekter was responsible, and we had to wait for long, long, yes, almost six years, until there was then a finance minister who finally made a decision. The whole disaster of that party, which is called a party with economic competence, has begun so that participation capital has been awarded on the basis of an opinion that this bank has called “non-distressed” – a very questionable opinion. This continued with the emergency stateization without need, then came a long, long break. In particular, we have had Mrs Fekter, the Minister for Finance, who has been awarded the recognition that she has delayed the procedure, the establishment of the Bad Bank. Yes, she has even gone so far as to cover up everything that has masked the real cost of the hypo-renewal, which has been done before a election, and thus fooled voters. What she did, however, was that she used a hypo task force; and this hypo task force of course also left endless time with a solution. What did this hypo-task force do, above all? – The hypo-task force has not made one, it has not examined a decision of which one can assume that it is the one that is best for the taxpayer, namely the insolvency solution. [[Secretary of State Danning: She has examined her!]] – Wait a minute, Mr. State Secretary! When we hide back, the argument was such that the insolvency has always been killed by both your party and SPÖ with killing arguments. There was panic, on the one hand, with the argument, then the liabilities of the country of Carinthia would be struck immediately. This has already been applied to emergency nationalization without need. It was then pointed out that the refinancing costs for the federal government would rise to the infinite. – Everything, everything panic, everything in arguments was used, only a risk-based assessment of options for different solutions, including those of insolvency, was not made. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Let us remember, Secretary of State: What about the hypo-task force and the insolvency? . Yes, at the end of the day, when the public debate began about considering a solution to insolvency, the hypo-task force has only begun to deal with it. There was this Wyman opinion, a very questionable opinion by the way. But there was still, because even the Minister of Finance did not think it was enough, another opinion which was concerned with this question, which has only been made publicly available to this day. There has been only one four-sided person we know about it, but it would be interesting once to know that to know whether that solution, which is probably the best solution for the taxpayer, has been thoroughly and tested so that one could say that such a solution can and must be approached. Instead, a decision has now been taken, a hypo special law providing for a decommissioning company and a creditor's stake of € 890 million. But this law, which has been mentioned several times here and today, is a law that creates more problems than it solves. It is difficult, in legal terms, for expropriation. It is, of course, also problematic in this context in terms of democracy policy. It is also constitutionally problematic, however, because it is not clear whether this law would hold before the Constitutional Court or before the ECJ. There is not only Bernd Raschauer's opinion, by the way, yesterday I asked Mr Finanzminister to make it available to us. He didn't do it, the NEOS asked today, he didn't pull it out again. . So get out of here, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations on Greens and NEOS as well as on representatives of the Stronach team.]] On the other hand, there are other opinions, we have read today in the newspaper, for example the opinion of Dr. Zehetner, who claims exactly the opposite of that. Zehetner says that this is most likely unconstitutional. So what you've created here is actually a law that will be occupied in the next few years by lawyers who will have to deal with the question of whether this law is one that is unconstitutional or not, and then a flood of complaint over the Republic will break in. – Yes, of course, that is to be expected. What is not to be expected is that a very favourable solution for taxpayers will come out. Apart from that, this law of course also involves a loss of reputation of the country of Austria – well, clearly, no loyalty to the contract. These subordinate bonds had a liability of the country Carinthia. If Mr. Lopatka, who is not here now, says: Well, we are doing nothing but the new resolution right that has been created at EU level! No, don't! We are doing something quite different, because this resolution is an exact regulation that everyone knows from the outset. But what we are doing here is putting out existing rules with a law, and that is an essential difference. Now I would also like to speak about yesterday's hearing, because my previous speaker has already indicated a lot. If you, Mr. Unterrainer of the SPÖ, say: Well, the special law presented here is the best case!, then this may be your dream, but that is not the most appropriate case in the case of Weitem; for: If you already go to war, and this law does, then you must do it with the right weapons! This is a quote from the committee yesterday, because it was Mr Kleiner who said that. The right weapon is insolvency, and insolvency is possible on the basis of the banking law. There is a possibility of business supervision for 12 months. During this phase, all transactions rest by court ruling, and it cannot therefore be at this stage that the liabilities of the country of Carinthia will be beaten. Whoever claims that, he says he's stupid. I mean, that's just how it is. At this stage, we would have had enough time to look for the creditors in these twelve months, and then to negotiate with them what a haircut should look like. This would certainly have led to a more favourable solution for taxpayers than the solution you presented with this special law. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] If Now Your expert, who has invited you to this committee, claims the opposite and says that insolvency would lead to disorderly insolvency, I cannot understand it honestly, for he has not had any good arguments. He couldn't disarm all of this. I have asked him several times why this would lead to disorderly insolvency, and I have also asked him what would happen if the country of Carinthia had failed to deal with problems for the federal states, i.e. to fall into insolvency. That expert couldn't answer that! But he is convinced that insolvency is the most expensive solution and that the solution he has made together with you from the government is the cheapest solution! So that can only be Humbug I can't believe. I also cannot believe what you have written in the explanatory remarks to this law, namely that the costs for bankruptcy are higher than those for this special law. I cannot accept this as long as there are no risk-based assessments of different options. These are missing. As long as I say that you have never, and at no time, seriously considered the case of insolvency – for which reasons [[Abg. Stroll: That's it!]] You may have done that all the time. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] That would be interesting. We will, of course, clarify this in the Committee of Inquiry: Why didn't you deal with this? Which creditors do you protect? – Yes, this is an interesting question: Which creditors do you want to protect? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] Yeah, that's the exciting question. And that, Mr Darabos, we will have to clarify and discuss in a wide range of terms in the Committee on Inquiry. As a conclusion, I would like to say: This special law is a coup from A to Z. It would have been much easier and much more honest if you had formulated a hypo taxpayer law with § 1 – and it only has one § 1 –: The costs of the hypo settlement are borne by Austrian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5504	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5525	Mr President. High house! When you look at the hypo and all the events of the past years, many people feel the suspicion – and this is written in many newspapers as well – that we are governed by dilettants, that is, that our Minister of Finance does not know what he is doing, seems to have bad advisers and is simply doing dilettanetic things here. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: But you are an expert!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: But you know everything!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Exactly! All the others are diletants!]] The Court of Auditors says that if, for example, the public hand builds something, about 200 percent of what a normal citizen would pay will be paid. Now you're wondering: Are there diletants at work? Are these all diletants when it comes to government work when it comes to public institutions? And I say, No, no, no, I say: No, they're not diletants! The Minister of Finance is also not a dilettant. It may be that he doesn't know himself so well in one area or another – but that's understandable too – but he has consultants and he has every opportunity to buy himself expertise. And he does. That means they're not diletants. And yet things happen, such as an exclusion of insolvency, where you then accept all the negative consequences of insolvency, but without correcting the positive consequences of insolvency. And there's a lot of people asking themselves: How is it, how can it be if they are not diletants? And I say, It's very easy. This works exactly as if the public hand buys 200 percent of things it can have just as much by 100 percent. That's called detour profitability. That is, there are interests. There's someone who benefits. And that's why it's done as it is done. Let us take a look at who in the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria benefits from these processes: The only reason why they did not go into insolvency is because creditors are supposed to be protected here. The colleague mentioned it before. And I also say which creditors are: First of all, these are the Raiffeisenbank, which would have lost a lot of money here about their hypos, their national hypos and other channels, and secondly – and this is much more important and even more serious – Erwin Pröll with his hypo Lower Austria. Did you know that the Hypo Lower Austria, would the Hypo Alpe-Adria have gone into bankruptcy, even if it had been slid in the pleite? And what do you think the government would have done to save the hypo Lower Austria? Do you think anyone would have understood it out there? – This is how we went about the 100% involvement of taxpayers in order to save the hypo Lower Austria and relieve the raiffeisen and let the Erwin, the uncle Erwin – who has called the Federal Government, at least the Finance Minister – leave his toy Landesbank. That's why it went! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now, on the one hand, we have about € 1 billion in loss for the Raiffeisen sector plus the hypo-enforcement network and on the other hand, a total loss of € 22 billion for the taxpayer. And now you can imagine what is more important: on the one hand, the taxpayers, who only have the opportunity to move here in four and a half years, and on the other hand, the influential Raiffeisen sector with Mr Erwin Pröll. Well, what do you think, who wins? Erwin won, we all know. And Joseph did this for him. He's got the bank out of the state without any need. He put it on the taxpayer. And now he tells us again and again: Yeah, that's why it was done because Carinthia was so stuck. [[Abg. Schultes: Robert, you at the BZÖ?]] Carinthia has held a total of €22 billion – that was at the beginning; at the end it was only €12 billion. At the beginning it was still €22 billion. Did you know what amount the taxpayers are now being asked to pay? – It is exactly these €22 billion that are transferred to this mining company, which was then held as liabilities. [[State Secretary Danninger: That's not true! Don't you know?]] And that's not really what's going on then, it's just that this amount is in the room. And now explain to me why we could not have gone into insolvency – except for Raiffeisen and Erwin Pröll! There was no other reason. If the central bank says again and again, yes, there would have been a huge damage to the countries that could not have been trusted, I would point out: This damage has already been caused by your special law! And no matter if you pick out only individual bonds: The damage is there, and the trust is gone! – That means we have the damage now, only the benefit we don't have. And the reason is exactly Erwin Pröll, who would never have accepted the fact that his Landesbank is getting involved. And that's what it's all about, and nothing else. If one gives faith to what is to be learned from the environment of the EIA, the Minister of Finance did not want to become a Minister of Finance. The Erwin from Lower Austria ordered him so to speak, told him to try as far as possible to prevent the hypo from going into insolvency. Another thing to say is if you look at it carefully: What would have happened if Carinthia had become insolvent? What would have happened? – Nothing would have happened! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There is a good book by Kenneth Rogoff – look at this! – which has proven financial disasters with over 300 pleas on the basis of 600 years: If a country argues, nothing happens – except that the creditors have a problem and that, second, this country can no longer receive new loans for a long time. [[Abg. Obernosterer: That's what other people pay!]] Well, wouldn't that be great? Wouldn't we all be pleased if the countries finally stopped taking credit for loans? [[Abg. Tamandl: How will Carinthia be?]] But that was exactly what had to be prevented. It also had to be prevented from following the other countries and no longer being able to borrow loans, because this does not exist in your world: a country that is well-run and does not receive additional loans at the expense of the following generations. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Look, the Minister of Finance has, of course, already gone. He doesn't even care. In reality, he is the help of Raiffeisen and the uncle Erwin from Lower Austria. For this, he has done what many recognize as dilettantism, but which is in fact exactly gold for the Erwin from Lower Austria and for the Raiffeisenbank. For those it is gold-right, for that it was made, and for that the taxpayer now pays the bill! That's what it looks like. As long as this does not change, there will be no reforms in Austria, and nothing that benefits the taxpayer, because decisions ultimately do Raiffeisen and the uncle Erwin from Lower Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5661	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5683	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen on the screens! The children have now had their fairy tale hour in the speech of Mr. Lugar with the conspiracy theory that Lower Austria would have been the liable state, and similar absurdities. Perhaps we can clarify the facts once. I understand Mr Rossmann, why he is going to go away here, especially to lawyer Dr. Fellner, who was an expert who had been invited yesterday, because he was suffocating the opposition with her populism stories, we would have to send everything in bankruptcy, pointing to two paragraphs, namely the § 5 in the Kärntner Landesholding Act, which expressly limits the Carinthian liability to those as an outages in accordance with § 1356 ABGB, and then he would have to read to the honourable Member what is stated in the § 1356 ABGB – by the way the ABGB from 1811 – namely that the person who came as a guarantee must pay only if the insolvency occurs. This is, of course, bitter for the opposition that has been trying to persuade us for months that the only possibility is insolvency. It is bitter because this has been modeled out as nonsense with few scarce words and two legal quotations. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear Bruno Rossmann, this results in the 12-billion arrest in the second. And don't come with the fantasy product: The FMA might be able to order an administrator between them! – The administrator meets the management obligation as well as any other board! [[Abg. That's it!]] And what does he have to do after the bankruptcy order if he is unable to pay? - He's got to sign them up! [[Abg. Auer: Register the insolvency!]] [[Abg. That's it!]] He'll be punished if he doesn't log in. What are you talking about 12 months? The inability to pay alone is enough! Not only with us, in America as well: Lehman had 13 percent equity ratio on the weekend before Monday, on which they were in bankruptcy. – That’s all fiction you’re talking about! And why are you doing that? In order to make a populist out of it a business and then make a special meeting again, stand out here, disqualify all others and explain for Dodeln and say: [[Abg. Podgorschek: No, we didn't say that!]] We have the solution, we're going bankrupt! Just think soberly, Mr Strolz: What would that mean? And in 2009 and today, it doesn't matter, both come to the same conclusion. – In any event, a mass administrator must be ordered at the moment of insolvency. [[Abg. Rossmann: But how?]] - Wait! Right now! I'll be right there. [[Abg. Rossmann: But how? Insolvency settlement!]] – In this second, the castle, the country of Carinthia, is fortunately only able to stand up for now – as Mr Lugar is right – for 12 billion €, then 22 billion €, and at the same time, as a country of Carinthia, must declare itself incapable of paying this amount. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes! We'll save Carinthia!]] Then there are two possibilities. Possibility of one: There is no insolvency right for federal states, and in fact there is no possibility of settlement under the bankruptcy order. [[Abg. Stroll: Because you don't do anything!]] What happens then? – Correct advice: The covenant may pay the full amount! – Version one. Variant two: We have the same situation as with the municipalities, namely that the provisions on insolvency law would also apply to the Federal State of Carinthia. And then what happens to every insolvency mass: It is all the assets liquid to make to determine how much is payable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] And don't start like in the committee: In the public interest, we may not be able to use the property. - That's what I'm looking at! The mass manager will have to make a cataster and will have to make exactly those values liquid means that are present. [[Abg. Stroll: Did you look at the balance sheet?]] From the country of Carinthia, or what, a balance sheet?- Oh, my God! Please, honourable Member, you have been here for five months now. You might already have some insight into Austrian reality: There is no balance sheet of a federal country! Thank you. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Won! [[Abg. Stroll: From the hypo!]] We're talking about the security. Have you already understood the difference between a debtor and a guarantee? - You didn't understand him. Okay, it doesn't matter. The Poly people know better than you do. Back to the question Carinthia: Someone is constantly making himself up and claiming that Carinthian SPÖ would have agreed to this. – The only law that she agreed to was that from which I quoted, where liability was limited, so that it was only up to 30. ==References====External links== No new liability has been assumed on April 2007. That's the truth! The SPÖ has never agreed, for the responsibility was exclusively with Mr Haider and as they have said afterwards, up to Mr Dörfler. [[The opposition of Members Neubauer, Stefan and Darmann.]] And then Mr. Strache, whose place is empty, ladies and gentlemen, stands here and says: But he died in 2008! – How is that? What was the name of the head of the state then? – A certain head of state Dörfler! Remember the radiant face in December 2009 – what a happy day for Carinthia! – when he shot in the 240 million Carinthian tax money and was glad that the federal government took away the problem that a Jörg Haider as the country's chief executive officer with a 23-billion arrest brought in all? [[Abg. Darmann: Mr Matznetter, you have no idea!]] Instead of the banking tax, we should have made a Jörg-Haider commemorative charge, over billions, so that people know what it takes to choose such people, and then with successors who hide away, are gone and say: [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] No, we have nothing to do with that! You have full responsibility for this malaise! Shame on that! I'm sorry to the taxpayer, but stop running child-moving here! We've got it hard enough to solve all of this. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Let's make an investigation committee, and he'll explain that!]] And the proposals here are new, creative and courageous, but insolvency would not have gone. [[Abg. Darmann: You have no idea!]] And it is the only way to include the Bayern LB in law. And yes, we try to do this with the subordinate believers, even though we know of course – I think, colleague Nachbaur asked this question – why that was subordinate. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: It has already gone on! She said she's already in the weekend!]] I know. Because this bank was undercapitalised under Jörg Haider, with a falsified 2004 balance sheet – by the way, that is legal, because the equity was not present – one has therefore written to the creditors: subordinated and at the same time state liability to show the core capital. – That's ridiculous! Yeah, you're victims today with the 98 million. But thank you, you can contact the FPÖ Carinthia and today's FPÖ. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Thank you for agreeing to a committee of inquiry today! He'll clear all this up!]] There the addressee is also for those life insurance contract holders who will now experience a small loss.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5956	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e5994	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! So, whoever said that now, he just can't have listened. I'm out now: I am a fan of Mr Matznetter, because he really knows himself and has now explained it to you. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But a few things have to be said to Mr Lugar, who is always here as a great expert in all matters and matters: They talked about dilettantism. I think from the perspective of the Stronach team, you were a dilettant as a clubman, because otherwise you would be They still have Klubobmann today and should not have been replaced and replaced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, the opposition could be given the designation of ‘concurrency parties’, because the opposition today has only the insolvency and with no interpretation the taxpayers in the sense of the taxpayers. Mr Kogler, you have been read before that you have made a request yourself, because we like to make a bad bank. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes! Eh too!]] – We are now making a decommissioning company! And it has already been mentioned a few times today, including by the members of the opposition, that the Minister of Finance, since he was Minister of Finance, has all parties involved, he has involved all financial speakers. He's got you in March, after 18. In March, when the Council of Ministers decision was taken, it was already said that he would like to ask everything he wanted to do here that he would choose the most gentle option for taxpayers. [[Abg. Kogler: That's not true!]] The Minister of Finance has told you that he wants to take part in the subordinate believers. He has told you that he naturally wants to take Bavaria into responsibility and, of course, the Federal State of Carinthia. If, of course, the opposition does not see a chance to do anything bad, even though it was first involved and, secondly, always called for the Bad Bank – you never demanded insolvency before, but now that another model is on the table and where we are acting, you demand insolvency – then I find that particularly unfortunate, because you should know better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And of course – and the Blue Group, the FPÖ, can still distance itself so much – it is of course a blue criminal case in Carinthia, Mr. Cot. Even if you still laugh at me so kindly, you won't change my mind. Head of State Haider used the bank, the Hypo Alpe-Adria, as a banker. [[Mr Deimek, Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Podgorschek.]] If comparisons are made here today and Mr Lugar is always speaking about the head of state of the Uncle Erwin, I have the feeling that you want to dock at the ÖVP in Lower Austria, but there you will not be taken, and that is why here you are always talking about Uncle Erwin and Raiffeisen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Abg. Podgorschek:... we would have saved ourselves if we had an investigation committee!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] You may have been rejected once when you once wanted a job at the Raiffeisen, otherwise I can't explain to myself this eternal leader. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Stay objective once! We have a special case here, for which there is a special law. This resolution is quite simply necessary! Even if you say a hundred times that we should send Carinthia to insolvency, I wonder – if we are being glorified here today, the Carinthians no longer need to accept new debts and so on – how would the Carinthian state government, for example, pay the national salaries? How could the operation in Carinthia be maintained overall? – Well, we do not want to see the taxpayers and taxpayers of the Republic of Austria getting back in, and we do not want to do so. That is why we are talking about the special law today, and that is why we will also make this special law a decision in July. [[Abg. Deimek: Well, you should talk to Raiffeisen and UNIQA before you decide this law!]] – Mr Commissioner, you are welcome to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You can say that from the speaker's desk. If you were listening to the experts in the Financial Committee yesterday, you would of course have noticed that all the experts were of different opinion. However, although the central bank governor has sometimes found some critical words in his opinion, for example as regards the Austrian financial centre or the Austrian economic location, he has nevertheless meant that insolvency would be linked to inestimable consequences for the Republic of Austria and for the rating of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Deimek:... an untruth!]] We do not want to, because – we have already seen it, Mr President Novotny said it yesterday too, the Minister of Finance has said it today – we are not affected by a worse rating. [[Abg. Deimek: He's been telling all kinds of untruths all day!]] On the contrary, we even improved by 10 basis points a month ago compared to the value in the spread. You can still talk so badly! We bear the responsibility, and as a member of the opposition, you cannot escape responsibility. In particular, the FPÖ cannot escape it, for you and the taxpayers of this disaster have just incubated us.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6151	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6188	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandl, but above all, Mr. Unterrainer – he has now left the house – you know what your speeches are missing out here, which is a certain consequence. [[Abg. New builder: He was afraid!]] If Mr. Unterrainer here slanders about the FPÖ in Carinthia for 5 minutes, that they are all guilty, then the necessary consequence is missing, because if he was consistent and he believes what he is saying here – I assume that he believes what he says here – then following each of his speeches the request for an investigation committee would have to come, because then you would have to know black on it that the Jörg Haider and the Carinthian Freedoms are guilty of the whole miser. [[Abg. Deimek: He's just a party speaker!]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Perhaps to refresh the history of Mr. Unterrainer: Perhaps he doesn't know that Jörg Haider was BZÖ's head of state from the end of March 2005 to his death, and not FPÖ's head of state. So much for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Doppler: He forgot!]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Oh, oh!]] – Just so you know it, because you seem to have deleted it from your memory. Mr Matznetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European When Mr. Col. Matznetter came out here Dr. Fellner... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Calm down again; that’s right, it was so! [[towards ÖVP]] – So if Mr Matznetter was quoted out here yesterday by Dr. Fellner from the hearing and he would have been consistent, he would have had to talk further and say that what Dr. Fellner said was clearly denied by the two other experts at the hearing. [[Abg. Deimek: He didn't understand!]] But he didn't say that. – There have been several experts, not just one. The one was probably ordered by the SPÖ, but that's not what I'm talking about. I noticed two statements in the hearing yesterday. – The first came from Governor Novotny: On the question of why he opposes insolvency, he has clearly said that one cannot compare the insolvency of the Hypo Alpe-Adria with a normal insolvency because the Hypo Alpe-Adria is a national bank. – So, and now I'm pulling the turnaround: In other words, if the bank had not been nationalised, there would have been an insolvency without major problems, without major consequences. So now I'm asking you: Who made the bank national? Were these also the liberals in Carinthia? [[Abg. Obernosterer: The Dörfler!]] - Is it? Honestly? The liberals in Carinthia have nationalized the bank? - No, I wasn't there! [[Abg. Obernoster: After all, they were there!]] Mr Pröll was there and the two present... – Yes, yes! [[Abg. Obernoster: The Dörfler was there, and the Dobernig was there!]] And then something comes – and now I come to the point that Mrs Tamandel has also mentioned: The fact is that this measure is measured by two measures and that very certain creditors – namely the subordinate believers – are asked to cash out and not all others. Do you know what I noticed? . In yesterday's hearing, the question was asked as to what Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance said about UNIQA's letter. Andreas Brandstetter, UNIQA General Director, has written a letter to all Members who will also have received it, in which he points out that the interest rate of life insurance is naturally at risk in the future. He speaks of over one million alone at UNIQA, which by the way belongs to the Raiffeisen Group – the Raiffeisen is the main shareholder, only for your information. I am already excited how UNIQA will explain the statement of the Federal Minister. He then meant that there are a lot of institutions offering life insurance. Everyone's got to think about who he's closing them with. – But that’s a great statement! Do you know that the state was introduced at the beginning of the two-thousand-years when the state-backed future provision was introduced – which would be good on and on its own from the idea, you only cut it retroactively in that you simply halved the state grants over the night, including for existing contracts; but apart from that, the idea was good – which insurance companies asked not only to issue a capital guarantee on these life insurances, but also an interest guarantee currently at 1.75 percent? Now, Mrs Tamandl, I ask you: If you look at the current money market, then you know that you don't get 1.75% in a savings book, even if you bind it longer, if you still subtract the KEst. Thus, insurance companies and pension insurance companies are invited to take very careful action in the use of their funds in order to guarantee this interest-rate guarantee as well. And if the Federal Minister goes here and says that everyone can conclude where he wants, you have to think about it, and if UNIQA fears not to keep it, then you have to do it somewhere else!, then I am excited how the Raiffeisen Group and UNIQA will react to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6340	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6361	God, Mr President! Greeting God, Secretary of State! Greetings to God, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have a certain preference here for a bankruptcy solution in the opposition. Why is there this preference for a bankruptcy solution? [[Abg. Wittmann: Because you are not responsible!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Because – let me give the answer myself! – so that the creditors are treated equally. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's it!]] For this there is the instrument of bankruptcy. When I record this call from the left: They often have the word “justice” in their mouths, but when it comes to justice when a company comes to the crisis, then in a modern, developed market economy of bankruptcy is simply the right, fair, equal treatment instrument. That is precisely why the financial markets are watching, from this point of view of this company, and perhaps also from a feeling of a stomach, the many members of the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] A special law is trying to create special justice, which is always problematic and where people will always have a bad feeling. The more special laws we have in this House to decide or decide, the more ungood is the feeling you have here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When I talk about equal treatment: People also think intuitively: What would happen if a private company did something similar? Let us assume that there is a head office and a subsidiary; the subsidiary establishes a bank and issues bonds. The subsidiary is liable for this bank, and then sometime it comes to the crisis of this bank, and you say as head of a group: Well, now we're making a directive that our subsidiary company is not liable and that the creditors don't get any money. Do you know what I can't imagine? – I can’t imagine the prosecutor’s office not becoming active there. I can't imagine anyone not thinking about whether this might have something to do with deception or property damage. Is there not the Association Responsibility Act and so on and so on? The state obviously does not have all these questions, but only inequality, and so so many people feel unfairly treated. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When it comes to not making repayments, there are, as it were, two schools of thought. They say – like Brandstetter, who was addressed here – that can't be! As a country guarantees that it is paid, these are papers that are mouth-proof that correspond to the categories of the FMA that we can deposit life insurance – and now all of this is worth nothing more?- Oh, my God! It can't be! And then there are the others on the financial market who say: You should never have trusted these papers! You can never trust a national liability; you should not have. I mean, both schools have their right, which, however, does not have a right, is that the state plays these two groups against each other and says to them: You don't get anything, you've got to get all of you involved! – and quietly and secretly disposed of the liability of the country of Carinthia on the path of this special participation. Indeed, the participation of creditors is only euphemism for letting the liability of the country of Carinthia fall under the table. That's the bad thing: that this liability is no longer worth anything, a liability for which you have been paid for, ladies and gentlemen, a commission of liability! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Right!]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: But there were the Carinthians not the only ones!]] Remember the word liability commission prepayment. – That is also an art word in this context. – 50 million per year, capitalised, prepaid for ten years, generate the famous 500 million € for the so-called future fund. A liability that was not worth anything, for which you have collected €500 million, would have to be repaid with interest and interest, ladies and gentlemen, immediately before any creditor participation is addressed! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is particularly bad about this matter, that the liability commission has not yet been repaid, but the creditors must already believe in it! – The fact that there would have to be one's own liability is on another sheet. The whole thing is a very, very great problem of credibility when a country says we are liable for it, but then we are not held liable and not a word. If today, as the finance ministers have said what has been promised, it must also be kept, this is not exactly the case, ladies and gentlemen. This way you drive this state to the wall. They lose all credibility – and so I can only say: If the sun of politics is deep, then all involved will throw long shadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6491	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6523	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently experiencing a real financial drama in Austria around the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but you are treating this here – I say with honest criticism – as if it were a dramat for the entertainment of our television audience. We are talking about really large sums and the same issues. Just putting a bankruptcy here so easily, only shows that you really don't care about the Carinthian population, the Carinthian government, the functioning of the Carinthian system and ultimately also the Carinthian communities. Because one thing is clear: If one really were to play this bankruptcy scenario – apart from the cost question in the background and all that was discussed there – it would be a disaster for the Carinthians from one day to the other, a change in their world of life, which would cause no damage to one for many years. It's not like you're saying, Well, now there is the money three days later!, but it is so that the entire country structure should be put on new feet, it is so that Carinthia de facto de facto will have to make its entire financing under the control of the federal government, the public hand, because its own ability to act is lost in bankruptcy. You have to tell the Carinthians. This is what they owe to the free movement strategy of these years, which has been the subject of: Let's just make a deal with the foreign money! With a country security we get many credits, with the loans we are the homemasters in Croatia, and there we will soon be rich. – Unfortunately, the crisis has come, and this business model has come to the wall. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now faced with the question of how to reduce this enormous damage, so that the taxpayer who would have had the burden in any case would have done as little damage as possible. – Nobody needs to come and tell me that we now have an elegant solution. It is not elegant, it is a solution that makes it easier for us to do some tasks and leaves some questions open. One must take the risk, finally and finally this solution is one that the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery has examined by Professor Raschauer. Professor Raschauer's study will be given to all Members of Parliament so that they can see how seriously this has been examined. This decommissioning society, which is now being set up, has the task of reducing the damage caused by careful processing, by handling without hecticism, without hysteria, with the knowledge of the market. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Four years you have left time!]] And if it succeeds in keeping the damage low, then the long time that has passed has also been calculated, because it has succeeded in analysing the problem, seeing how the Bavaria have analysed it, how the committee of inquiry in Carinthia has analysed it. Now we know from this knowledge how Austria can act, what we need to do to bring in Bavaria, what we need to do to bring in subordinate investors, and what we need to do in order to ultimately open up the room for negotiation in Carinthia, which, of course, also requires the Carinthian responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] If someone thinks that the Federal Chancellor is not taking a position on this, I can only say one thing: ==References== The Council of Ministers, of course, also dealt with this issue in the Council of Ministers on March and, of course, also requested that Carinthia be taken in and that Carinthia be co-financed. Thus, the burden is distributed to taxpayers, to those who have benefited from the business, to the Carinthians involved as voters, which ultimately makes them one for all the bearable burden with which no one has a joy. Today we know that this game Hase-and-Igel opposition is no longer funny. You're making yourself up and you're saying, Insolvency!, next time you're making yourselves, demand a decommissioning bank, the next time you make yourselves, says: Insolvency! and then again: Depleting bank! – In reality, it is only that the opposition is driving its game according to the motto “six parties, five opinions” – one of the opinions of the two government parties and the other of the four opposition parties that have to play their game. Ladies and gentlemen at home, if you see this on TV: A difficult task is being carried forward very responsibly today. Today one can say for the first time that the taxpayer will actually experience a relief step in this hypo-alpe-Adria story. I am really grateful to our specialists from the Ministry of Finance, to Vice Chancellor Spindelegger, to you, dear Jochen Danninger, but also to the experts of our coalition party, that this has actually come about so far. I don't have a good feeling, but I know we owe this solution to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6573	The next speech is from Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6595	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Today we have heard a lot of details about subordinate believers and similar things, I would like to try to take out the whole complexity and to ask the house mind once. The mind of the house tells me that only those who have something to hide prevent from being examined by an independent body. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] In the case of Hypo we have a lot of facts, but we also have many, many open questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The fact is that a huge damage has been done for Austria, for the Austrians. The fact is that billions of costs have been incurred – the money is gone; at least for Austria, it is not quite gone, it only has others. The money is missing, we know that, for education, for research, for security. There are many, many tormenting questions. What do we want? – We don’t want more and no less than openness! We want answers! We don't want any secrets or preventions! And we liberals want and are interested in the fact that, when you divide the whole hypo process into four phases – I say explicitly, phase one is the time before 2009, where you can already mention that the problem in 2007 actually had the rich and powerful state of Bavaria; the second phase is the nationalization without need in 2009; the third phase is the period from 2009 to 2014 and the fourth phase 2014, with the resolution bank instead of the insolvency and the “great” special law that is present today – all phases, I emphasize that, are being examined in a complete way, are unspeaked. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] In this context, of course, there are some general, interesting questions, namely: If there was mismanagement, there was amateur action or even legal violations, where are the responsibilities? Second question: Who are the profiters of the previous approach? – In an additional sentence, Mr Krainer has already mentioned that the banks have very probably benefited from this, namely in a different context than the bank levy, the justification of those. What networks would we be particularly interested in, are there any chance between government politicians and the banks? Could there be any conflicts of interest? Now to the individual phases. At the time of 2009 we would be particularly interested: What was the real need to carry out the nationalization? Who were the winners back then? Was it the Bavaria? Was it the BayernLB? Was it the hypo-enforcement association in Austria? Were there other banks? Was it the Republic of Austria? – The latter was a rather rhetorical question. Then phase 2009 to 2014. The crisis broke out in 2009. I'm asking: Why has nothing happened for five years? Why did €300 million have to be spent on experts? Is there no high-paid management, there is no responsible government for it? The year 2014. Why not solve the problem with an insolvency at least now? – Many experts support this. Why did you make this special law now? A short sentence to this special law: This is a single disaster for confidence in Austria's economic location. I can't ex post – please? – We want to have checked that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Abg. Wenninger: The insolvency!]] Nor have we eaten the wisdom with the spoon, but we want to have examined it objectively by a committee. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Yes, no one claims. Well, just a little bit. The Special Law is a disaster of confidence, which has already been said, because there is no comprehensive participation of creditors. And I am convinced that, as Mr Hable has already pointed out, this is even a minus business due to the follow-up costs. I'll get you together. We want answers! We want openness! The Austrians have a right to this. And we also have the appropriate body for that. We have the opportunity in Parliament to convene an investigation committee. The control of the Federal Government is one of the central tasks of Parliament. [[Abg. Auer: He can handle a bank! Congratulations!]] We don't need any external experts from the Griss Commission. We have enough experts here in the House, we can already trust that we will handle this task. Who, by the way, is ordering these experts? – But the one or the institution to be examined. Yeah, what's going to happen? This is a contradiction in itself. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Franz and Mr Vavrik.]] In other words, we need a committee of inquiry and we will also have to set up a committee of inquiry. Request me. My question is: Where is your problem with such an investigation committee? And I conclude with what I started with: Only those who have something to hide prevent an independent body from being examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6684	Next word: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6706	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! I think you can say it openly: The citizens of Austria and the delegates, or at least most of the Members of this House, have the nose full of the Causa Hypo, really the nose and the canal covered! It's incredible what's been held here for months, months, months. And every day the marmot greets! We've all reached a point where we can't really stand it at all. [[Call the ÖVP: Why are you talking about this?]] If you talk to the citizens, you'll notice that everyone thinks this is a completely shattered causa. I'll tell you why I'm talking about it. If we have a German chancellor, and we have this – in order to get back to the subject that the President of the Federal Republic has previously squandered – I would expect that the Federal Chancellor, who has leadership to show and is actually in the lead position, will be here in such a massive malaise that it is finally to be solved and will also make a statement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prammer]] [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] And I also expect Members of the government groups to finally get through with it and finally, please, set up and allow a committee of inquiry. That is the minimum we can offer to the citizen in this completely reduced matter. As the last point, I would like to convey something positive to the many taxpayers who have been examined, many of whom have been plagued, namely a motion for a resolution tabled by the Stronach team: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6793	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Franz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6879	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e6900	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to see this as a little bit from my 20-year experience as a mass administrator, because I think I can contribute a little bit from the practice and say what is really no longer exorbitant in absurdity. At least there were huge bankruptcys like climate technology, at that time the biggest bankruptcy that Austria had. That's why I have a little experience and I know how to deal with such things. I think it's almost absurd, as the owner's representative – as the owner's representative! – to yell at bankruptcy! I think it is absurd to yell at bankruptcy as a detainee! I think it is absurd, as a public hand who has assumed the responsibility to cry out for bankruptcy! [[Abg. Strolz: It's about responsibility!]] You know what you're doing? – You make an experiment at the expense of taxpayers, on the back of taxpayers! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You don't really believe that if you send the Hypo Alpe-Adria into bankruptcy, the liabilities are gone! [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, we've calculated it!]] What legal world do you live in? [[Abg. Stroll: We've calculated it!]] Where shall the liability come from, or what do you think? [[Abg. Stroll: 2 billion instead of yours!]] What do you think she's going to do? – Of course, the liability remains. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] I read to you § 1356, literally: “ But the guarantee, even if it has expressly guaranteed itself only in the case that the principal debtor is unable to pay sey, can be paid first. ” This means that with the introduction of insolvency the entire liability is due! This means that the country of Carinthia, with the introduction of insolvency for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, is bankrupt and has to register the bankruptcy. [[Abg. Stroll: Okay!]] This means, in turn, that a mass manager is used there. If Mr Kogler says that we can deal with our bankruptcy order, I have to say that I doubt because there are no legal spaces. We must in all cases secure the assets for the creditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] What does wealth mean? Where is the land of Carinthia? – For example, in the grant of housing, and I have to make that due. With this I meet every house builder, so I meet the cooperatives. But I also have to sell all the property values. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] That means I have to all – everyone! – Office buildings, all hospitals, all kindergartens once secure and offer for sale. Dear friends, where do you live? A bankruptcy isn't a children's jacket! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: No, neither is the hypo!]] This would be almost an irresponsible experiment at the expense of the Austrians, especially the Carinthia. To demand such a thing is irresponsible, and you only trust it in the opposition, because then you no longer have to answer it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7039	As the last speaker, Mr Hable spoke for the time being. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7060	Mr President. High house! I have once again spoken, because there are some things to be corrected. Mr Wittmann, if you call insolvency law an experiment, I ask myself: How to label You're the special law we've got at the table here? [[Abg. Wittmann: As a solution!]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Insolvency law is a proven right and part of any market economy, which is not an experiment. If anything is an experiment at all, then it is what is being done here – this special law is an experiment. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is not a far-right space! Read it!]] The next point I would like to make is that, unfortunately, the Minister for Finance is no longer here, but You can do it to him –: He said that we had made a common decision in March. I can't stop that either. We have always felt that the talks between finance ministers and the finance spokespersons of the parliamentary parties are positive, but it cannot be that then in retrospect it is claimed that we have taken the decision together. We have not made the decision for the mining society, which we have criticized from the very beginning. [[Abg. You don't decide anything!]] The third and last point I would like to address is the answer to our questions 7 to 15, today at the urgent request. We did not ask these questions in vain, but because in the supplements to this special law, it was stated that the costs for insolvency are higher than for this special law. If you put this claim in the room, of course the question was: Who then has calculated this, how has it been calculated, and what is the result? And we have now received an answer from the Minister of Finance to our questions 7 to 15 of this urgent question: It wasn't calculated! Then I wonder, how can you put yourself in public and claim that insolvency would be more expensive if you have never calculated it in truth? – I do not want to hear now that the Taskforce has somehow calculated this. This task force had to be forced to deal with insolvency, and until then vehemently opposed it. Yes, how serious can this task force be insolvency, which has expressed itself from the beginning, without dealing with it, against it, and had to be forced to do so?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kogler: Because she's in there until she gets into the neck!]] We must note that there has been a decision without an objective basis for decision. You didn't put the options on the table. You have not evaluated the options, you have not calculated them and have therefore not been able to make an objectively comprehensible decision. Mr. Finanzminister and, yes, I add him, Mr. Bundeskanzler, who, as always, dives into this question: Professional procedure looks different! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7161	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues in the field of insolvency law for local authorities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the introduction of a modern banking insolvency or recovery right. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the disclosure of all the debt and liability of the countries. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lessons from the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[18:16:01]] Short debate on the response to the question 1237/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7265	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 1237/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Loacker to open the debate as a signatory of the request. As I said, the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7299	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Yes, the question we have raised to you, Minister, was the result of the way Finance Minister Spindelegger addressed our urgent question on federalism on 26 May. This year's reply was received. He answered several questions on the issue of insolvency for local authorities, stating that insolvency law is not relevant to him, that the Minister of Justice is responsible for this. You now point out in your answer to the question, however, that the Minister of Finance has done the necessary thing if he ensures that the federal states can no longer accept liability to the extent that many countries have done in the past. Yes, on the one hand it is unsatisfying, of course, when one minister refers to the other and then refers it back, and on the other hand it is not done with it. The local authorities in Austria, the countries and the municipalities are indebted. Although they report data about it, the federal government has no way of verifying the accuracy of this data. They assume liability, but no one has the overview of these liabilities. Literally, the Minister says: “I cannot give you ( ) a guarantee of completeness.” – This is what the Minister of Finance has said about the liabilities that the federal states have entered. In addition: ‘Deviative transactions are currently not listed in the accounts of the countries and municipalities.’ According to the Court of Auditors, there is no overall view of the financial situation of the local authorities, because “parts of the conduct are withdrawn from the public budget through outlays”. So we can't even know what sum is going on somewhere with the countries and communities. The Federal Government has no overview of what is happening financially in the countries and communities, it has no means of intervention, and the Minister of Finance has also explained it in the reply to the question at that time. But the Federation, which cannot do anything, has no means of penetrating, which has no perspective, is at the end just about everything, which must ensure that these federal states remain able to work. And that is why it is so crucial that there is an insolvency right for the countries. That is why we are so stubborn that such insolvency law is created, because otherwise a local authority can always work at the expense of the others. The core of the evil lies in the fact that the responsibility for revenue and expenditure in Austria is so far apart. While the federal government collects taxes, countries raise about 1 percent of what they spend. And if the money is not enough, you stop your hand and demand more from the Minister of Finance. With a discussion ratio of 9:1 – nine heads of state to a finance minister – you can calculate your history every time. If the money is not enough at all, see Carinthia – and we have discussed the hypo before – then the federal government will jump in anyway. I wonder how even the citizens of the other eight federal states come to pay for the salad that happened in a ninth federal country. The Carinthian politicians have been elected by the Carinthians. It is not just a question of the hypo, if we stick to the example, but there is this great idea of mothers' money and of the thousands of young people and of other magnificences, whose funding for the respective princes is not at all a problem and no question. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Rädler, thank you for your calls, but I would like to join my colleague Mr Podgorschek: I would like to make 1 € for every call you make. Then I would have financed my life this week. [[Abg. Strache: Then we would have financed the hypo!]] - Yeah, probably we'd have rehabilitated the hypo. In Austria, we have a kind of federalism that leads to the citizen having nothing from a economical state government. On the contrary, the system leads to an invitation to waste. The system leads to waste, because there is no responsibility for spending the money. This responsibility should be re-regulated. If you can't pay the debt, you'll have to get into insolvency sometime. This concerns the federal states as well as the banks. The consequence must then also be those who have decided for themselves. Those who have borrowed money from a country will probably look through their fingers in the event of insolvency. And those who have chosen such politicians will also have the consequences to bear. What these consequences look exactly like must include such insolvency legislation. It is not right, however, now, as the colleague Schultes has done, to paint the devil on the wall and to pretend that there were no schools or hospitals in such a federal country. There must be rules on how such insolvency can take place and what consequences it has. But that there can no longer be any youth thousands from such pleite countries, and no mother money and other extras, that is out of question for me. Such things should be clarified. If the Federal Government does not now do anything to create such an insolvency right for countries, it is buying a huge failure. As so often in life, it is about being wise out of harm. We have now suffered damage in several cases: We have suffered damage in Salzburg, we have suffered damage in Carinthia, we are expected to suffer damage in Linz. There is damage at all corners and ends, but now we also have to consider what that means and what one can do so that no additional incentive is given for other such cases to occur. That's where I ask you: What is the Federal Government waiting for?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7344	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. Mr Federal Minister, the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7365	Mr President. High house! I refer to the written request made to me from 24. April of the year, which we have also answered in time and which has now been desired. The question relates exclusively to whether insolvency rights would be planned for local authorities; if so, in what form, if not, why not. To this end, I should like to say: Of course, in my house, especially in March, thoughts have also been raised about what it would be like to see an insolvency of a local authority. I say absolutely clearly that at the beginning of these considerations, from a purely legal point of view, I was able to overcome this idea of a bank's insolvency very much. But then one has considered more closely what consequences such insolvency would have had for the liability holder, the federal state of Carinthia, or would have had from this point of view. On the basis of these concerns, the Federal Government has unanimously decided to avoid insolvency, which also resulted in the absence of any need to make provision for any legislative measures in order to establish a regulatory mechanism for the insolvency of a local authority. But I would like to point out a number of aspects to be taken into account in the context of an insolvency scheme for a local authority. It must not be forgotten that a local body like a federal state is also involved in relevant legal activities. That is to say, we are here in a border area between national autonomy, ultimately also constitutional law and the possibility of insolvency. It flows at all corners and ends. I just want to mention one, two details that are particularly plausible: If one considers that, for example, the staff of a local authority, a country in the event of insolvency by the insolvency fund are not insured, then one can only imagine this example of chaos that would arise, a local authority should actually send to insolvency It will be the It must be seen clearly that poses massive constitutional problems. There is the state legislator, who has arranged something, and then there may be the mass administrator who has theoretical withdrawals in relation to any agreements made on a national basis. So that's practically uncontrollable. But I also do not want to keep in mind that at the time we did not make the decision easy insofar as it was really examined and reviewed on a very broad basis. I should like to quote just a few words from the opinion of the Constitutional Judge Professor Potacs, which was drawn up in March: There should be serious concerns about the constitutionally guaranteed division of powers. The management of debt under the supervision of the Court of First Instance, provided for in insolvency law, could affect the autonomous management of the country in the event of financial emergencies, which is considered to be alarming with regard to the division of powers required by constitutional law between courts and administrative authorities. - Quote. That is what I meant: extreme constitutional difficulties. Nor does a federal commitment – I quote that from this assessment – for debts of the federal states do not result from constitutional law. - Quote. That is to say, in principle, there would have been no concrete regulation here for what is now to be done with the liabilities of the country which, of course, could not have been borne by the country to this extent. But at any rate – and this is the last detail I do not want to hold back from you – an execution against the country would be associated with complex procedures, in which specific decisions would have to be made about the executability of the property. - Quote. All of this, as I believe, was intended to save the country of Carinthia and Austria for good reason. For these reasons, it has not been considered necessary to take any steps towards an insolvency scheme for local authorities in Austria. Should this ever be desired, we would of course be available with appropriate expertise. But in principle I also believe that there is no need for it, and that a local authority, like a federal state, should not be sent into insolvency in Austria, is the unanimous decision of the Federal Government. This has been done, as I have explained, for good reasons, and I really do not know what I could say in addition to this request from April this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7432	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7454	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, the content of the answer to the question in question must be given a proper answer, although it could have been a little more detailed from the point of view. If you, Mr Federal Minister, had just fixed the statement in writing, we might have been able to save ourselves the short debate in this regard. The fact that an insolvency right for local authorities is not planned at the moment is primarily due to the fact that in the future federal states will no longer be able to enter into any liability in the order of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria, is – admittedly formulated very briefly – the content of the request response. This brings us to the NEOS resolution tabled today on the insolvency of local authorities and raises a number of fundamental questions in this context, such as: Does the Republic want, does the legislator want, but also the Austrians in the future, that there should be this possibility? Or have the Austrians in the past and will they continue to be able to rely in the future on the fact that the states are not let down by the Federation, should this case, unfortunately, occur in whatever circumstances? Today, the Minister of Finance has said that the Republic does not automatically stand up for all the liabilities of the countries. All the more likely it will be in the future to ensure that the countries are no longer allowed to accept liabilities in the order of magnitude, as Carinthia has included them, and thus, in fact, the problem of inability to pay or insolvency of a local body can no longer arise. Mr Hable said today from this pult: “Insolvency must always be expected by investors.” Klubobmann Strolz added: ‘Insolvency is sometimes the right answer on the market.’ Another question to be asked by the legislators, the Austrians: Are the countries, are the local authorities really simply market participants who are to be treated as all the other market participants who have already been talking about today, and who are well aware of the risks, but also the potential incomes of the charges? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] Or are the local authorities in this Republic not, rather, providers of the most diverse services for the population which the market as such cannot or does not want to offer under the same conditions? [[Abg. Stroll: From responsibility!]] [[Abg. Strolz: The topic is responsibility culture!]] What about the confidence of the population that local authorities cannot or will no longer be able to deliver these benefits from one day to another because of insolvency? [[Abg. Stroll: general care!]] A few weeks ago, or a few months ago, the United States had a rather drastic view of the consequences of inability to pay for its own staff, for the population and for the services for the population. And I don't think the Austrian population would welcome these American states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] The confidence of the population in the federal government and in the countries would probably be greatly reduced in the prospect of a possible insolvency of the countries, in particular, Dr. Strolz, when it is also a matter of making financial resources available to the local authorities for the purpose of fulfilling the benefits in the field of taxation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] From our point of view, effective legal directives and regulations, such as the creation of uniform standards in the accounting system for the federal and state governments, a ban on speculation for the countries and the public sector and rules on the limits of liability for local authorities, are probably the more appropriate answers to the questions raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7555	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7576	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The reputation for insolvency is very dominant in this House today. On the one hand, we have talked about a bank where we could gain a lot from the business sector, on the other hand, we are now talking about the insolvency of local authorities. Let's just stay with the bank. Let's just stick to normal insolvency! This much praised word “orderly insolvency ” can, as I believe, only take those people into their mouths who have never represented a debtor who has never been in the situation to be very close to being in order. I believe that an orderly insolvency, where you know exactly what comes out in the end, does not even exist in the well-established and well-practiced insolvency proceedings in companies. However, we have quite different things to consider in the case of the insolvency proceedings of the local authorities. We've got to make sure we've got the supplies. There are other consequences which do not have an impact on normal insolvency, but are very important. What about chain reactions? What about tax losses for the future? Yes, how does it look about the changes in decision-making structures, such as when, at once, a mass administrator or a commissioner comes and determines what is going to happen in the country? It passes the edge of democracy when individual people appointed by the court have to decide on the elected representatives of the people. Insolvency is therefore a massive intervention into the federal structure, an intervention in financial compensation, because: What means do the country really belong to, which are only channelled, which could be installed? - No human knows! [[Abg. Kogler: You need to do that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] It is also, as history shows, to intervene in territoriality. What did the Americans do? - There the areas were moved! Perhaps one federal country buys the other, even that could be regulated. [[Abg. Kogler: What do you want?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] One solution: Of course, we could also regulate that it concerns only sub-areas. Is it only the area of sovereignty, or is it the private sector? [[Abg. Kogler: It's supposed to go on as it is now!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We also need to look at the demarcations. [[Abg. Kogler: You'll run around with the index finger again and point to Carinthia, right?]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In essence, however, insolvency is a breakthrough in politics. The mass manager – no, that's no excuse carousel. [[Abg. Kogler: Ausfahrenkarussell!]] If I were to use a conventional insolvency procedure, then democratic fundamental rights would certainly be severely restricted, and I think we do not want to do so. [[Abg. Kogler: Then let them pay for themselves! Sorry!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Drive to Carinthia and collect the money!]] The only ones who are really happy when we make this insolvency right for the local authorities, apart from Mr Kogler, of course, will be the rating agencies. The credit rating agencies really have to guess. [[Abg. Strolz: It's about responsibility culture!]] It will seriously deteriorate funding, so I believe that the way we should take is to make the answer more transparent in accounting, uniform accounting systems. [[Abg. Stroll: Responsibility!]] [[Abg. Strolz: Take responsibility!]] [[Abg. Stroll: That's the topic!]] I have shown, as I believe, that this is not necessarily the subject of the Minister of Justice, but that this is actually a very constitutional-juristic issue, because we are restricting or affecting the foundations of our constitution, and I believe it should be dealt with accordingly. [[Abg. Stroll: That you do not have any responsibility!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7790	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7812	Mr President. Mr. Minister! This is a very interesting discussion, as I believe, which one should not easily wipe from the table, as to whether one can send local authorities into insolvency, whether there should be an insolvency. Two arguments have just been put forward by my previous speakers. For the first time, they have meant that it must be ensured that no liability or at least high liability is entered. – I can really stress that; I just wonder that we did exactly that at the federal level with the ESM. We have just decided again on the back of taxpayers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Sure, we did! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] We have not decided that, you have decided. It is precisely those parties that are now arguing that this is the major problem for the countries that have decided to do so. This is always due to taxpayers. Those who sit here decide that, and have to bathe it out. I am against these liabilities, we have argued vehemently against them. The then Minister of Finance, Pröll, said that it was not at all a problem, it was just a liability, since nothing was more passive at all. Only liability!, he literally said that here, and that really brought us to the palm tree at that time. Now come back with the argument. That is why I ask you: Stay consistent! Secondly, it has just been said: After you imagine when the country is in insolvency, then some administrator comes or someone tells you how to lead the country. – Well, we didn't complete a stability pact? Didn't you sign that? Is that not exactly the same, if Austria does not meet certain criteria, that we will then have the European Union's rules on how to proceed? [[Abg. Wheelers: something else!]] - Anything else? – Nothing else at all! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] We do not have to go into insolvency much earlier, but we only need a certain amount of new debt of GDP, completely arbitrary in any case, in this direction. [[Abg. Wheelers: something else!]] We are now talking about the issue of whether there should be an insolvency right. – Of course, you are quite right, a local authority is not equal to a company, the ordinary insolvency law is not applicable. That's clear, that's why we're discussing it. It is absolutely right that the local authority does not act like a company, does not operate freely on the market. The restructuring of the market, as it used to be so well said, does not take place. But there are other things to consider. These are, as has been quite rightly said, the questions of responsibility, transparency and throughput. This is not regulated at all. The current situation is totally unsatisfactory if we do not know what debt lies with the municipalities, the countries, what is still outsourced. If there is no such possibility, if ultimately the federal government and therefore the taxpayer are always liable, without even having the opportunity to understand, then there is a need for rehabilitation or change. That's perfectly clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why this debate must take place very well. If you talk about it, you're talking about an absolute special right. That is to say, we are talking about insolvency, but we are not talking about the insolvency order in the actual sense, as it is now present, but it is about thinking about the following question: On the one hand, how is it possible to maintain responsibility, on the other hand, that the things necessary for the general provision of services for the population are safe from being found? This must be clear, of course, because the devil has been painted several times today on the wall: that everything will be still and that then nothing will work at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Also, what the Minister said is right that the insolvency fund does not take action there. There will certainly be a lot of things to consider, including constitutional problems. It's not that easy to solve, that's perfectly clear. The only question is whether one has the will to say: The current situation is unsatisfying, I want to find as a legislator a solution that is better to address precisely those problems that have been raised and are on the table. I mean, you're all the time discussing Carinthia and what happened there, but you're not ready to pull the consequences and say: All right, let's talk about how we can do better in the future! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, with representatives of the Stronach team, as well as with Mr Strolz and Mr Köchl.]] I believe that today's debate is starting. It's a start, and now is the question of whether the will is there. Is the legislator, is Parliament prepared to go there and not simply to wipe it away, with the argument that insolvency law is not applicable? That's quite right, and if you hit it, you have to call it different. It is, however, about the rules that one considers to be enforceable, and what possibilities one finds that there is no incentive for countries to make debt, that money is not taken elsewhere and spent by the countries, knowing that anyone covers it. A need for change is given anyway, the discussion is open, and I really can only hope that you don't just wipe it off the table, according to the motto: It's too complicated! or: It's none of our business. – This is very important so that we can manage the debt within this state.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7914	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e7935	Mr President. Federal Minister! One word on my previous speaker's remarks: The liability of the ESM is limited in contrast to the liability of the country of Carinthia, because if there is to be an extension of the liability of the ESM, it needs a decision of this House. [[Abg. Stefan: From the principle!]] [[Abg. Strache: But it's already 60 million! 60 billion!]] I would like to make that clear. [[Abg. Stefan: I spoke about the principle!]] – Let’s make things clear what they are, and then we’ll discuss everything else! Now on the issue of insolvency law for countries and municipalities: Let us first take a look at the communities! [[Abg. You're an expert!]] There have already been insolvent communities, and they have been handled on the basis of the order of execution. I mean, Federal Minister, if you say that execution procedures are always complicated and complex, then I say no! – also in the private sector; but, of course, there is an insolvency right there. And I do not realize at all that there is only reason because there are difficulties in not having an insolvency right for countries. Should it be in this country that the federal states can do anything on the back of taxpayers, and you and this Federal Government are not prepared to decide on an insolvency right for countries? I mean, it can't be that the country of Carinthia is expanding its liabilities at a budget of €2 billion – in the maximum case – €23 billion, knowing that these liabilities can eventually become striking! – You just have to take care of these cases. We of the Greens already did this in 2009, on 11. ==References== A few days before the national emergency, we have tabled a motion for a resolution here, asking the Federal Government to draw up a government proposal for insolvency law. I don't think you can just look beyond it; Countries cannot have the right to be fooled in their actions and to resort to autonomy or to lack of insolvency fees. I believe that these problems can be overcome. As long as there is no insolvency right, it would be necessary, as I think, to ban liability at least once – and that very quickly – from increasing the liability for the federal states. It may not be possible for them to increase their liability at any time, without being able to provide for such liability in the event that these liabilities are going to be staggering. In reality, it has to go a lot further. This is also true of the ban on speculation. It goes much deeper. In reality, this discussion must begin with the question of federalism. There's a stop. Let us once discuss a new model of federalism, which looks away from the previous thinking in possessions, from old patterns of thought, from blockades in the reform area of federalism, from blockades in the regulation of a new financial compensation, from blockades in the regulation of a ban on speculation, as we experienced in the previous year, or also from blockades in the case of the modernisation of budgetary rights, namely uniform budgetary rights. These are things that are regulated, but I do not see any efforts in this government, nor in the previous government, at all, there are zero approaches. And if I have listened to you today, I must probably interpret what you have given here for the best that this Federal Government is not willing to create an insolvency right for the federal states. However, we need an insolvency right for the federal states, even if it is difficult to put a bar on the driving of the federal states at some point. If we do not have an insolvency right, we may once again get into a situation like that of the country of Carinthia, and then we will wonder again: Aha, now we still have no insolvency right, the situation is difficult again! Then we will stand back, and all that is available – or at least most of it – will have the taxpayer to bathe out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8017	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8038	Before I speak on the matter, I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Tamandl's statement, which referred to the fact that a clubman is being replaced as proof of inability. Since I want to protect Mr Kopf from the ÖVP, he has not deserved these inconspicuous insults, I have remembered him as a very good clubman. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Schönegger, jewelry miners and other representatives of the ÖVP]] - That's what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] Secondly, If the colleague of the SPÖ here claims that the hospitals would have been sold if Carinthia had gone into bankruptcy, he would clearly say the untruth. There is a good book by Kenneth Rogoff, who studied financial disasters in 600 years, and there is no evidence that a hospital had ever been sold in the wake of the bankruptcy of a country. So this is a smooth untruth that is being spread here, and it is simply a question of provoking fear and justifying a decision that was wrong and that was only taken to relieve Raiffeisen and the hypo-enforcement, which was put on the taxpayer. Only in order to justify this decision is the ghost of insolvency mentioned again and again. But that's wrong. If a private person goes into bankruptcy, he has a problem. But if a country goes into bankruptcy, the creditor has a problem. This has always been the case in history, and this will not change with the country of Carinthia, because the creditors have no intervention. They have no right of access to the land's property. How is that supposed to work legally? Of course, if we make a bankruptcy order now, the question is what will stand in it. As a matter of course, assets could also be used here. But as it is currently running, and you can see where you want to go worldwide, the creditor has no chance of accessing assets at all. And that's the point. If the Minister of Justice says that he was a great friend of bankruptcy, then one asks: Was he misguided or did he not think about it before he thought it? Or was it the other way around that this really corresponded to what he really believes and thinks, and then the government in the form of a political decision did exactly the wrong thing to protect those who seem to be more protective in Austria than the taxpayer, that is Raiffeisen and the country of Lower Austria, which would have been particularly affected by our uncle Erwin? That's the point. If you ask for a bankruptcy order here, I mean, of course that would be a good thing, but there is not much more going on either. What do you want to do? Do you want to privatize the kindergartens or do you want to sell the Wörthersee or lock the hospitals and privatize them? What do you want to do? All this won't work. And finally, only one thing becomes visible, and you don't want it to become visible, namely that the creditors dress warm If the States or the countries decide simply not to pay, as many countries have done before. That's where the creditors have to dress warm. So it was with Greece. Greece could have just gotten into trouble and paid for the French and German banks. That is why Greece has not been let go. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And that's why the Austrian taxpayer sent money down so that the French and German banks would be freed from losses, which is what happened. We're playing the same game here with Carinthia. This is not about the Carinthian citizens, it is not about the employees of the country Carinthia, because they could be helped in the bankruptcy, that would not be a problem. We help everyone else too, we help Cyprus, we help Greece, we help everyone. Of course, we would also have helped the Carinthian staff, of course. But now that all creditors issue a personal note and pay them 100 percent of what they did not deserve and where they have previously also received proper profit, this is ultimately the wrong policy being made here, and it is not made out of inability, but out of a calcule. And the calculation means we're going selectively. Those who are worthy of protection according to the logic of the government, Raiffeisen, the uncle Erwin and many others who are protected, and the taxpayer, who ultimately does not have a lobby and comes to speak only in four and a half years, is asked to cash out. And a year before the choice, if everything's been forgotten for a long time, there's a control sugar. This is then taken out of his own pocket by the citizen, for which he can stand up for himself, because it is financed by debt. And with this sugar and nice posters “stormy times. Safe hand” will then be advertised again. And the citizens choose the same nonsense again a hundred percent. That's the point, and that's how the system works. As long as the system works, the taxpayers are always asked to check out. I hope that someone will notice this soon and there will finally be a change in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8120	Last word sign: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8142	Mr President. High house! Madam President, because I am currently seeing you here, I would like to make a correct position. I cannot say that you have accused our clubman Matthias Strolz that he would not have been in the EU committee. Of course, he cannot have been there because he is not a member of the EU Committee. I know that because I am a member of the EU Committee, and of course I was there today. That's what you need to remember. That is why, Madam President Prammer, I would like to ask for a little more objectivity. Mr Wittmann. - Where is he? – I see his back; now I see him completely. Of course you're right. They have said that the insolvency opening does not mean that the country's liability disappears. You're right about that. But what you have not said and what I would like to add is that the country's liability is a failure liability, that is, the liability applies only to the failure. Therefore, it makes a significant difference whether we have an insolvency or not. [[Abg. Strache: But Mr Wittmann does not understand that!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I'll be right there. We have expected you to have an insolvency nearer €2.9 billion. That is to say, the country of Carinthia can ultimately only be held liable for this failure, only for this failure and not for the total 12 billion that you always put into space. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I thank you for this reading. Yesterday, we had a reading in the Financial Committee, where your legal expert read the article 1356. Mr Matznetter – I don't see him right now, sorry he's not here – has also emphasized this. That is why I would like to address this very point. § 1356 ABGB, on which the Kärntner Landesgesetz invokes itself and which concreteizes the Kärntner Landeshaftung, sees exactly what you have read. It presupposes an insolvency of the Hypo Alpe Adria, we have already heard this today. The first possibility that this insolvency does not occur at all, at least not occur, is the supervision of business, as the supervision of business is pre-insolvency. [[Abg. Wittmann: But you demand insolvency!]] And that's exactly where Mr Matznetter – it's a shame he's not here – is wrong. The manager in the supervisory board, the supervisory authority does not attack insolvency, but has twelve months, because the condition for supervision is precisely the inability to pay or the over-indebtedness. Otherwise, they don't even come to the supervisory board, they have twelve months. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] I don't hear any argument from you at all, perhaps you'll try it again later. The second point, why it doesn't have to come to an insolvency immediately, is that you have prescribed a penalty for the creditors by law. You have shown this with the special law on Hypo Alpe Adria, which we have discussed today, what seems to be going on. Then I wonder: What is going on in this special law of Hypo Alpe Adria, which is not going on in Carinthia? Here you could just as well order a law-enforcement, and you would exclude the insolvency of the country of Carinthia. Third point: Even if all the stupidity is what we are saying here, the federal government can still jump, exactly what is already the case now, and prevent the insolvency of the country of Carinthia. These are three ways that clearly disprove that an insolvency of the country of Carinthia is an automaticism, it is a white excuse. And that's why we also need this insolvency right for federal states. What does that mean? – It means taking responsibility. It means taking responsibility on the part of investors that they look where they are investing, and it means taking over responsibility on the part of the federal states. We don't need any limits of liability, we don't need any bans, we just need an insolvency right, which is clear, that they themselves are responsible for taking on this responsibility. Mr Brandstetter, you have raised a few problems that are opposed to insolvency law. [[Abg. Rädler: Talk time!]] That's what I'm asking myself: Why don't you explain a solution? That would be exactly the incentive for you to present a solution. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I would therefore not like to hear any more excuses on this matter. We need this insolvency right for the federal states, so that responsibility is finally taken on by the federal states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8231	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[19:00:10]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry The application shall have the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8444	We shall now proceed to the vote – the implementation of a debate on this has not been required – on the request of Mr Podgorica, Mag. Kogler, Dr. Nachbaur, Dr. Hable, colleagues on the establishment of an investigation committee. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. For the vote only the official ballots which are in the House of Members can be used. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry, “Yes” voting paper – these are the grey ones – and those who vote against to throw “No” voting paper – these are the pink ones – into the urn. I now ask the writer, Mrs Musiol, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8506	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8547	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 157 of which ‘Yes’ votes: 63, No votes: 94. The application is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz; Of a width of not more than 1 mm, of Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Höbart, Hofer; Jarmer; Cashier, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Kunasek; Lauch, light-encovers, Lugar; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mlinar, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rossmann; Schatz, Schelenbacher, Scherak, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, Rejector, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher, becher, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichting finger, fetter, fichting finger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer, Hanger, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Huainigg; Jank; Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Oberhauser, Obernosterer, Ovenauer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Prammer, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. [[19:09:21]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-06-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00032_d8e8745	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 524/A(E) to 534/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1821/J to 1833/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.10 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
