ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6477	A good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! I'll open the 53. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 49 and 50. Meeting of 19. ==References====External links== ==References== In November 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. The representatives of Katzian, Keck, Weninger, Mühlberghuber, Walter Rauch, Barbara Rosenkranz, Winter, Aslan and Brunner are reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6514	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter is represented by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin. Furthermore, the Federal Minister for the Interior will be. Johanna Mikl- Leitner is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:06:50]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6564	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Hypo-Group-Alpe-Adria – the mirror image of the red-black system’s multi-organ failure” As First of all, Mrs. Klub Chairman, Dr. Nachbaur, spoke. I give it to you and draw attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6591	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! State Secretary! High house! Dear taxpayers! The Griss Commission has done great work. The test report shows the red-black total failure of the OeNB, the FMA and the Financial Procuratorship in a merciless way as well as the unforgivable errors of the OeNB. But we make the biggest mistake if we consider this investigation report only as a factual report on the dilemma of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria, because it is far more than that. The report is a moral picture of Austrian politics and power structures in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In a prominent and objective way, criticism of the large-scale coalition system, which has spread like a crack in all areas of life, has spread throughout the country and has penetrated into all important areas of society. The arrogant self-understanding of the two government parties also explains their reactions in the last few days. The really responsible ones have not yet been brought before the curtain, and the term “responsibility” seems to have come to a mere phrase. It seems that once this country has been torn under the nail, it is meaningless. If new parties appear that might disturb this power structure, then the system-related media in this country will work together to disassemble these parties. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The NEOS are disassembled in weeks-long discussions about cannabis, one of the most successful entrepreneurs in this country, Frank Stronach, is irreverently thrown, and even I assume the daughter newspaper of a system-related bank to disburse any absurd amounts. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] – Get down and lie to everything! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I admit, I was quite naïve to have believed in a completely different Austria after twelve years in Canada, an Austria of the many diligent citizens and entrepreneurs who deliver world achievements. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eßl and Mr Pendl.]] But the SPÖ-ÖVP-Austria, which I have now met, does not reflect this and knows no political responsibility. In doubt, in the hope that the citizen will lose the overview completely due to the complexity of the facts. Now, however, the facts are on the table. There is a lack of hope for this country and for improved democracy, I am now addressing, above all, the opposition parties, but also the reasonable people in the government parties, that we are creating a close-up across all ideological boundaries in order to eliminate this dinosaur policy of the supreme rulers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In reality, the Griss report and, above all, the way in which it is being dealt with now show the country's democratic declaration of bankruptcy. He not only proves the inability of the persons acting but also provides evidence that it was primarily about making Jörg Haider the sole hypo-student, no matter what price, the coalition partners, especially the SPÖ. [[Abg. Kickl: Prize of Truth!]] The Commission of Inquiry is unquestionably aware of the following: “The covenant () cannot be approved that it has made its decisions as the sole owner” of the hypo “for the benefit of the bank and the general public.” – That is what sits down. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of NEOS.]] Most of the billions of damage, therefore, is not about the account of Haider, but about the government of the diletantic. The individual culprit theory has finally served. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One has been mercilessly pulled over the table by the Bayern, the so-called emergency stateization has been presented as an alternative. Only to make the budget look better has a clean solution been removed for years. Did the government, for example, put billions of euros around the Austrians, just to be able to hang on to Haider at last, or was it about protecting certain creditors? I ask this question on every occasion and have not yet received an answer to the probably most important question in this context: Who were the creditors at the time of nationalization? Who really was saved at the expense of taxpayers? The presumption is that these are the system-related banks of our country. But, dear supervision, don't let us speculate, but just tell us who the biggest creditors were at the time of emergency nationalization, so that taxpayers at least know for whom they need to bleed now! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The Federal Chancellor should tell us that then!]] As the Griss report clearly points out, all the mistakes made were the nationalization of the biggest mistakes. The main damage to Austrian taxpayers was caused by nationalization and by nationalization. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You, Mr. Federal Chancellor, were in the middle of it. Everything happened that night in close coordination with your office, and I hope you will not have sacrificed billions of euros of tax money to make the Haider FPÖ final. If the efforts of this party were the reason and your decision has influenced you to perhaps spend billions on making it possible, then perhaps we should ask the voters. Of course, Haider made mistakes. Together with all four parties represented in the Landtag, he completely inflated the national liability against any logic and against every house mind. [[Call the Greens at the ÖVP!]] By the way, the hypo banks have been working for decades with partly stunning country bonds, this among red and black country leaders. What Carinthia has reached: The expansion course in the southeast was started in the nineties under the Black Captain Zernatto and his red deputy. The basic decision to go to these markets was adopted at the time. Then a former Raiffeisen manager was picked up and the expansion strategy was further developed under the head of state Haider munter. By the way, the instrument of national liability for risk deposit bonds is completely absurd. Culterer went to jail for put options that were secured and were in fact no risk to investors at all. In the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria, there is no risk to investors, that is to say, of bonds that have national bonds, but they get the increased interest deposit very well. – What kind of instrument is that? Where was the supervision? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At any rate, she was apparently half blind, just as in her judgment “not distressed. ” At the time, however, Mr. Pröll and Mr. Schieder with Chancellor Faymann were even more blind. How can we avoid any guarantee that the total risk volume of the BayernLB was between €6 billion and €8.2 billion, which would have greatly strengthened the negotiating position of Austria?- Oh, my God! There is no more meagre example, which shows why our country must not be led by professional politicians. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Do you seriously believe anyone with a track record of economic competence would make such a deal – without strategy, without adequate level of information, without the development of alternative scenarios, without attracting social and insolvency lawyers, without due diligence? Of all the fatal individual steps, the nationalization was the most serious at all. As regards the time after the nationalization: That's how it went on dilettantly. The decision to create a Bad Bank has been delayed for years in order not to burden the budget. In reality, it was a choice to win, and it was not at all about the expensive refinancing costs, as you, Mr. Matznetter, said on Sunday in the “In the Center” program. You can put the voters in for a while, but certainly not the financial markets, that was long been the prize. They only deceive themselves and the voters. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Comrades!]] Federal Chancellor Faymann, Chief Bank Governor Nowotny, Raiffeisenmann Pröll and Mrs Fekter, will you survive all this without harm? – If so, then it is probably the merit of some media, because many are part of the red and black system of control. The fourth violence, the control function, often exercise them insufficiently because of their ownership and economic dependence, and power politicians can continue to act shamelessly and without having to expect consequences under their protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] This is much more than the hypo scandal, it is about our country and about our democratic system. If there can be a political caste that – even if it is still so negligent, responsible or even criminal – is not held responsible, while tax-paying citizens are being passed on new laws and regulations and even punished for bagatles, then the relationship of trust between the population and politics is severely disturbed. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] All actors from the country of Carinthia, the Federal Government, auditors, OeNB and banking supervision are to be held responsible. The felt has been serving this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6772	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6793	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to thank Mrs Griss for her report. In contrast to others, I have never doubted that the report by Dr. Griss will have a high technical and material quality. I would like to state very clearly for the present that even in decisions made today – it is always important that reports that shed light on the past have consequences for the present and the future – the expertise, the analysis, the proposals, the preparation of these decisions in the Ministry of Finance, the Austrian National Bank. I know that some now say in retrospect that they already knew it better than the National Bank or the Financial Market Supervision. I can only say that today, in decisions we make regarding banks, we do not seek the expertise of professional politicians, but of the Austrian National Bank, not of large-scale coalition politicians of the local, state or federal level, but of financial market supervision, of the Task Force. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Is this a good or a bad news?]] This is also true today because it is not an option to rely on the expert Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: As much expert as you have been for a long time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You were in the Landesbank, I forgot!]] Therefore, the question is not: How can one know a little better in the present day for party political reasons than the Oesterreichische Nationalbank?, but: How can we create structures in a country to ensure as much control as possible, transparency in decisions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] It is therefore also clear at present that the expertise of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the expertise of the Ministry of Finance, the expertise of the task force and the controlling bodies is the basis for political decisions and not to use or harm a party political motive to use the deceased state captain or a particular party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] I would therefore also like to say that Mrs. Dr. Griss has made a clear statement on the country of Carinthia – not the SPÖ to prove how the FPÖ operates if she is responsible somewhere, but it is also Mrs. Dr. Griss, who says: [[Abg. Kickl: But the emperor has always been there?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: federal!]] “The risk to the country of Carinthia was not calculable because the liability for all future liabilities of HBint and HBA was valid.” [[Abg. Kogler: After all!]] Also from the Griss report: “The risks associated with the national liability, which ultimately cannot be borne by Carinthia” – that is not the SPÖ, but the Griss report – “were insurmountable from the expansion []. [[Abg. Kickl: But the emperor was already there?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He doesn't know him!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorica]] There is therefore a clear case of ‘moral hazard’’. – This is not a party-political qualification of the procedure, but is also contained in the report you mention. The Griss report also notes: ‘This meant in the case of secured liabilities of EUR 23 billion at the time of the sale of shares’, ‘that BayernLB could appeal to the responsibility of the Republic of Austria [] when the HBint needed more capital as a result of a leap in the need for value adjustment, although the HBint was now the Austrian subsidiary of a Bavarian bank’. [[Abg. Kogler: With what were they insured?]] What have we heard of speeches in which individual speakers of the FPÖ have tried to explain to us the following: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] The liability didn't exist at that time, and actually it was a Bavarian matter at that time, and why did you even help Bavaria? What does that have to do with it? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You still haven't understood!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Podgorschek and Mr Neubauer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] If you use an analysis afterwards, you can see that the question of the country's liabilities taken over is still the reason – also according to the Austrian National Bank – not to use solutions other than those we are currently doing in the settlement because, according to the National Bank and the experts, the financial market supervision and the Task Force, the liability would be staggering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] This is also the reason why we still have to be guided by this fact of the country's liability at that time when decisions are to be made today. There are a number of considerations which are also based on the assessment of the Task Force: Is a bankruptcy better? Is a partial bankruptcy possible? Is a resolution possible in other ways? Is the resolution professional? Passing error during processing? To discuss all this is legitimate. I'm convinced: Finally, it cannot be a party policy decision based on any political or even political intentions, but it must ultimately be a decision of the experts of the country, the National Bank, the Financial Market Supervision, the Ministry of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]] There is no way of doing this – on this matter and correctness – with further decisions in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a result – and this is an important issue both in the present and in the future for banking decisions, and that is why we will also have to be judged by the responsible bodies, not by party leaders, but by national banking and financial experts – the question arises: [[Abg. Kogler: That must not be true!]] What happens in criminal cases that have affected about some managers of the bank who employ the courts? That is a question on which not the Austrian Parliament, nor the Austrian Federal Government, nor the Austrian Chancellor has to judge, but, fortunately, there is a clear separation of tasks in our rule of law. The decision in question: Which part is criminal, and in which criminal proceedings have individuals been blamed? is also not that subject to party policy assessment, but lies with the courts, and I am also entitled to say that the courts have so far partially condemned ten ex-managers. It is not true, therefore, that the Austrian courts and those responsible for the judicial managers or other responsible persons who have come to debt would have been left unscathed or overlooked – no, they carry out their task, carry out the case and have already spoken out judgments that are not all legal, I emphasize this in order to create clarity here. I would therefore also like to refer to the question of the different discussions in such political but, of course, especially banking-specific processes. If, for example, the Ministry of Finance, but also the Task Force, for a time saw the involvement of banks as a particularly good form of settlement, I do not suggest to them that they have pursued a political motive – one of the FPÖs or the like – but believe that at that time they were of the opinion that the involvement of banks for Austrian debt, the credit quality of Austria and the interest rates of government bonds could be beneficial. [[Abg. Kogler: That’s a more beautiful body’s make-up!]] I would like to stress that my position was controversial to that of the National Bank and I had previously requested a Bad Bank solution. However, it is crucial that the Task Force has been pursuing this banking solution for a long time – that is indisputable – and that it was in particular Eurostat and the Austrian experts who have made it clear that, with the willingness of the banks to create an independent structure, instead of a Bad Bank, it removes the risks from the Austrian state and the rules of Eurostat come to an incompatible solution. Why do I say that? – Because I am convinced that such reports are correct and make sense, because I am convinced that – if Mrs. Griss wants to – a monitoring of the current processes would also be very useful. Everything that is retrospect later and then long also has its meaning, but all that is ongoing in the present time is taken away from the political wadling and leads to better results and better solutions – and only Austria can be interested.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7048	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7072	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Griss report, the report of that Commission, which has summarized the proceedings surrounding the Hypo-Alpe-Adria from the time in Carinthia to the recent past in which much of what has already been discussed here is, as I think, an important document for political discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] That's why I think it's good and right that the Stronach team is organizing a current hour today. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: event!]] What I am not going to conform to is your speech, Mrs Nachbaur, because on the content of this question, we already have to hold a few others. I would like to stress that the political debate and also the explanation of why they answered the questions as they were answered are also something that is not only right in our democratic culture, but I also understand that the taxpayers on the screens who look at them at home and think about this hypo-desaster, of course, also think that the politicians should comment on them. That is why I would like to do so, not only in my present role as parliamentarian, but also in my capacity as former Secretary of State. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That's why you let me take a brief look at this. The starting point is – and this has been very well summarized by the Griss report – at the Kärntner Landes-Hypo in Carinthia. The blanks of €24 billion or €23 billion, the highest level in 2007 – as Mrs. Griss stated in her report – were, of course, the starting point for the assessment of hypo questions. I therefore say this because in the political debate the fire brigade is often accused that it has not removed a fire quickly enough or not sustainable enough, with actually the fire army and the fire accelerator sitting in Carinthia and the true culprit on this question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: He's still sitting there! The Emperor is still sitting there! Now he's even head of state!]] I can tell you here in public about my understanding as the Secretary of State of the State on the weekend of nationalization at the time. What has been presented to me as a State Secretary at the time and what has been presented to the assessment of experts from the National Bank, the Financial Market Supervision, the Financial Experts and, above all, the experts of the Ministry of Finance, was that the decision to put the Bank in an emergency state has been the right one of the alternatives. The other alternative would have been to risk – and not just risk – after all the information available – that this bank would slid into the pleite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] And the fact that a bank is sleeping in pleite is in itself a problematic thing in society, because the bank managers are less the sufferers of this pleite, but it is always the savers who are commercials on the spot. [[Abg. Kogler: This is a nonsense!]] Above all, however, the decision has been significantly influenced by the fact that all of these 20 or 19 billion liabilities, which existed at that time, would immediately have been beaten, which would have meant that the country of Carinthia should have transferred €19 billion to the creditors at this second on Monday in the early part of the year. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] Since Carinthia could not have done that, it should have done the Republic, and that would have meant that Austria would have slid into the water of the Greek budget policy this morning, because our public debt would have exploded in that second and Austria's wealth of this money would not have been on the high edge either. [[Abg. Kogler: Why?]] [[Abg. Rossmann: This is an unfavorable one!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Do you still believe that? You were Secretary of State!]] And risking all of this in a financial environment where Lehman was just pleading, in which the whole world saw that systemic banks in countries did not argue, would have meant taking on a responsibility that would not have been useful, and that is why this path has been taken. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] People are also interested in what happened after that. Also a few words in the short term: It is known that I have recently proposed that the path of municipal credit – namely the splitting of the Hypo-Institut into a good and into a bad bank – should also be speeded up, because it is better to jump into cold water immediately than to pull things into length. This is a lack of policy, an accusation that is rightly raised in the Griss report. However, I would also like to point out that other consequences have been taken and decided: The bank levy was introduced and increased, the national supervision strengthened, the Banking Union progressed at European level, the minimum capital for banks increased, and ultimately the Griss Commission was used for reprocessing. Many of those who today take the Griss report as the reason to re-submit the entire policy were the same ones who, when the Griss Commission was set up, meant that it was just a cover-up commission. It's not a cover-up commission! [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Vetter: ( towards SPÖ) A little louder!]] This is not a cover-up commission, but it is the normal political way of taking on responsibility, which is also explained and is at the same time ready to discuss politically, because from every decision you have to learn for the future to make decisions better. That is why, I think, there is also a real and necessary debate on the report.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7248	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7269	Federal Chancellor! Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission of Inquiry set up by Michael Spindelegger has done valuable work. That is what all parties represented in Parliament say today. What are the main points of this 344-page report? – The first point that is clearly stated here is the following: [[The speaker shall keep the report up-to-date]] The hypo fire has been laid in Carinthia and has taken its exit in Carinthia. 3 billion were the liability, when in 1999 the head of state Haider in Carinthia took over the first and main responsibility as the head of state. In 2004, these liabilities were already at 13 billion. Then President Griss speaks, and so she has literally said it at “In the Center” on Sunday, about a “fall of sin” that happened in the Carinthian Landtag. Read here, on page 32. [[The speaker keeps the report up to date]] In the Kärntner Landtag, FPÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP and Grüne then took the following decision: an unlimited liability of the country Kärnten as a guarantee of default for the liabilities of Hypo Alpe-Adria in the event of the inability of the public limited liability company, including not only the liabilities before the date of transfer as a banking company, but also all future liabilities of the stock company. What did that do? – These liabilities, which amounted to 13 billion at the time, grew to 24.7 billion. That means, before 2008, before Lehman Brothers, it was a kind of gold tomb mood, and you only saw it positively. There has not even been critical words in the Carinthian Landtag, because the reason for which the instrument needed was: the economic upturn of the country of Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] By the way, this has also been seen by all media. So no one is supposed to do it today as if he had failed at the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What does this mean for the further strategy? But that's interesting what you're saying, because that means you're going to be in the next row!]] At that time, unfortunately, what the Griss report says very clearly: the reason why 2009 – and the Federal Chancellor has mentioned it – the Federal Government has seen it necessary, and that is why I am still talking about the need to take this step today, in order to prevent what the Federal Chancellor is talking about and colleague [[Abg. Kickl: But I'm curious what the Ministry of Finance is doing now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] That is to say, Austria had been seen as totally negative at the time. You might remember: The Nobel Prize winner Krugman then threw Austria into a pot with Iceland and Ireland, meaning that Austria is the closest state to which the pleite threatens. In this situation – when all of us at European level from the Chief of the ECB, Trichet, downhill, have asked everyone to find a solution here so that there is no point in it – this emergency stateization has taken place, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] At that time, for example, the “economist” presented the euro as a sinking star: “Is this really the end?” The eurozone as a whole has been seen in massive danger. Against this background and under great time pressure, Josef Pröll, as the Minister of Finance, has taken this step, supported by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Kogler: “temporary pressure ”! Have had four months!]] And why did he have to take this step? – Because we were in a situation where the country of Carinthia could never have fulfilled these obligations. Haider had said that these liabilitys were “bombproof”. – Well, the Republic had to jump in, Carinthia could never have coped with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This has now been criticized by President Griss. But Mrs. Dr. Griss never said that the alternative would be bankruptcy, never, but she meant that we should have gotten out more in the negotiations. The next point I would also like to address, as Minister Fekter has been mentioned: The Griss Commission has only investigated the hypo, but Minister Fekter has also been aware of the general government deficit and, of course, has negotiated with the European Commission for many years. Three restructuring plans have been submitted until a result has been achieved just before the last National Council election. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition always speaks badly. When the Griss Commission was set up, this speaker from Mr Kogler, who will take the floor afterwards, said: This Commission is infected from the outset, and nothing healthy can come out of it! – Those were your words to the Griss Commission. Mr Strache, you have spoken of a large-scale cover-up. Now all are making themselves up and saying: That is a wonderful report by President Griss! I say to you that we need the support of President Griss also in the committee of inquiry. I suggest that we ask President Griss to make her the judge of proceedings in this committee of inquiry. It has the knowledge, it provides objective enlightenment. [[Abg. Kickl: She should also look at the other liabilities and the other nationalizations! That would be interesting, too!]] It would be good if you agreed. A President Griss as a procedural judge in the Committee of Inquiry, that would be a contribution to objective clarification, I tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7413	Mr Klubobmann has spoken next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7434	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the opposition in this House was, of course, skeptical and legitimate, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, after SPÖ and ÖVP rejected over 21 requests from the opposition to set up an investigation committee, is clear, for you have done everything you can to ensure that it cannot be clarified. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Of course, you're not saying that today. You have confirmed 21 times that it is important for you to cover up, and there was legitimate scepticism appropriate. In this way, of course, we have to bear in mind what the opposition once the Commission report has been presented, that we have been surprised very positively here and that there is respect and recognition for the report. [[Abg. Wöginger: You judge it as you need it!]] That you have now responded a little more excitedly to the report, well, you have to evaluate it. Mrs. Dr. Griss has shown some in her report, which in the end has not confirmed you in your argument that you are not going to get through with it. You have to work that out. It is, of course, very positive to assess that this report has been made by Mrs Irmgard Griss very objective and serious, of which we have been positively surprised. What does the report show? – A collective failure of political leaders in this area! And perfectly right, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, at last you have shown it quite correctly today: The takeover of the liabilities has started with ÖVP's head of state Zernatto. Unfortunately, there have been improvements in liability, which have been irresponsible, but where there have always been SPÖ and ÖVP in addition to Haider, even confirmed by Dr. Griss: In 2004 all parties represented in the Landtag voted in favour. It has also been confirmed at the “In the Centre” discussion, against the opinion of Mr Matznetter, who said something else there: Yes, all parties represented in the Carinthian Landtag – unfortunately God – were responsible for these liabilities. That's bad, but that was the starting position. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] However, the report clearly shows that the so-called emergency nationalization you have always mentioned was not an emergency nationalization. That was a nationalization without need, and there were very likely alternatives. And if you praise the report, please also quote these passages, where it says it was not alternativesless. It may have been an emergency lie, but it wasn't an emergency nationalization! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where the damage begins. This is also what Dr. Griss writes in the report that the damage was caused there, and the damage would have been averted. If one had left the Bavarian Landesbank in the Bayern's responsibility, one would have had been to save the bank much less with the Bayern over a participation capital which was still being shot, which would have been negotiated accordingly. Mrs. Dr. Griss is right to say that it has not been expected that Bavaria would have sent the bank into bankruptcy or insolvency only in the first place. This is also reflected in some reports by the Bavarian Landesbank. That is, from then on the unblemished valley ride of a nationalization without need begins. And now you have to see the conditions. The then Secretary of State of Arbitrators travels with then Minister of Finance Josef Pröll to the Bavaria, does not take legal advice with... [[Abg. Krainer: That didn't happen at all!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Where were the counsellors? You definitely didn't bring any legal counsel! You didn't have a strategy! The Bavaria have knocked on the thighs and laughed at the inability of the Austrians! And it is precisely this that the irresponsible crash can ultimately also be explained, which Austrian taxpayers now have to ban, with up to €17 if not €20 billion – with this irresponsible nationalization without need. I say that evil would have been averted, they failed here. And this is clear from Mrs. Griss' report that this inconceivable incompetence, as she describes it, has ultimately led the entire political responsibilities to this situation. And Bavaria had not just sent the bank into insolvency, which is also reflected in the Bayern Board of Directors' clatage in November 2009. Right here is the responsibility. And then you nationalized the bank and did nothing again. There has been no Bad Bank, there has been no harm as the damage has grown larger and bigger. This is the drama in three files. First act of drama: Nationalization without need, resulting in damage at all. Then the inaction not to make a resolution in the context of a Bad Bank, and in the end to make the wrong decision. And today we are so far away that, after the decommissioning society that has been decided, against our voices, even Mr Androsch says, we must now think about an insolvency that you have always rejected. You should also consult with your own experts. But fact is, Mrs. Dr. Griss also describes in her report the complete failure of all supervisory authorities, financial market supervision, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. And to these experts, the Chancellor calls! Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have been the head of this government, where all of this has arisen, in fact, you bear the responsibility up to the supervisory bodies. And I wonder, When will come Your resignation, when do you take responsibility for this disaster? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How long do Novotny and all those who have failed in this field remain in office? This is also the discussion that we should have when it comes to political responsibility. In the Committee of Inquiry, we will ensure that there will be some further clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7521	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7542	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We will have a detailed opportunity tomorrow, as part of a urgent request from the Greens, to discuss the matter again, hopefully with more perspective on the current events and also on the future. That's too short now, understandably, everyone has only 5 minutes. The so-called Griss report does the Seine right, by the way. But you don't get to say a few sentences now, too. Yes, I have to admit, I am surprised myself, positively surprised that the way I work and the evaluation process is not only sharper, because I now fit the result, but have failed more clearly and rigorously than I expected. It has been intensively worked, and there have been quite certain aspects, but a very limited investigational mandate from the Federal Government. The fact that you get it apart once. Yes, it has also proved that a lot of documents have been worked on, the document density is enormous, you only have to look at the footnotes, less with results from discussions, because witness statements were none, then we will have them in the investigation committee. That's what Dr. Griss says. In that respect, it was once a good thing to do with this basis of work, with certainty. But if we already want to show each other the yellow and red cards again, at least you have to do that: Without the pressure of the individual Members, here the whole opposition, then the public and the media, this Commission would never have been there, because at the outset it was obviously quite clear that it was being used because a committee of inquiry – and that was in March – was to be prevented. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS]] At the time, you did not negotiate a minority right; afterwards, we are discussing it immediately, and we then negotiated it together. But it was quite clear that it was the population and opposition that brought about and enforced it in truth. At that time, this Commission - and this has worked for two months - has served to ensure that others have said this speaker's message: Stop your search, we've got the Commission. And that's not going to happen at all at a 15-billion hole. You have to imagine this: 2 billion, 8 000 € per Austrian family will be the damage here if we do not finally do something else, we will come to it at the latest tomorrow. In any rational and semi-developed democracy in the world, it is perfectly logical that a committee of inquiry should examine this, otherwise we can lock Parliament and the people's representation. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] There can be no interest in that, and that was the mixture you started here. But it's good that it came. Yes, I have ultimately and honestly given recognition to Mrs. Dr. Griss and Mr. Spindelegger for his action, and I do not admit that I have been deceived in some development. That's all the better for the thing, all the better! What I do not understand at all today is so much in summary: this excitement or this sudden anxiety that shakes the Republic: Hey, what happened, now we have it once! I find that abstrous and adventurous. In fact, what you have known for a long time has been summarized, What is worth it anyway, because, as a Member of Parliament, we would not have gotten that well-founded in some respects, not in all, I still have to do so. Certain things have not been examined, first because they were not inside on behalf, second because the chairman of the Commission himself said that she specifically did not consider and address motives and interests. It is a collection of facts and an assessment of these facts, but those who have done what has not been eroded. However, this is crucial in the context of political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as with representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Who were the beneficiaries? Who were the profiters? That too we will have to look at. This excitement, which I have referred to, would only be understandable if one had not given up for many years, if not a decade, a collective cover-up and banishment. It was very likely that in 2006 Rolf Holub and I, in financial market supervision, in the public – I have already mentioned the APA reports here – have already pointed out this, at the beginning of 2006, not only because there was a swap loss there, it is known that certain loans – what is credit? – that these criminal transactions in Croatia are completely in need. There is no control system, no risk management. 2006, 2007, Red and Black turned off the Banking Investigation Committee, which was used, among other things, when we arrived exactly at this point! And now the chief priests are running, I'm sorry, around again, who want to spray something else here. We can't do that at all the consensus debate we have then. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is true that at the beginning a blue pyramid game has been created in Carinthia. But what has happened afterwards is not justified in any way. And the damage has been maximized afterwards, not before, and the estimates are now dispersing, there you will be able to discuss and investigate carefully. It is clear that the Republic itself has imported this damage once again – at night, as I mean – after it has already been with the Bayern, it remains the state of the present knowledge. That is therefore inexcusable, because it is perfectly logical that the Bavaria were not only better prepared, but did not even think of this threatened bankruptcy. Why should they kneel when 6 to 8 billion get away from them themselves? You should have known this not only in the negotiations, but also in terms of knowledge. But you've preferred to be surrounded by the wrong consultants you're still talking about today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7631	The next item is Mr Lugar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7652	Madam President. High house! In my view, this Griss report, which I very much appreciate, has some weaknesses. It's always talking about inability. The report reads like the total accumulation of inability by the government. And, of course, you're wondering: Is that really the case? Are they really all so incapable? [[Abg. Lopatka: You already know what you said to the Commission, or have you forgotten?]] One point could be taken to find out whether they are actually all so inadequate: by looking at how the negotiations were conducted at the time, namely, without taking experts, without independent international experts. The Germans, the Bavaria, did this. They took along experts, and they also took part in the negotiations. This was not necessary in Austria. And there's the question: Was that stupidity or wasn't that stupid? I say: It wasn't stupid. The experts would only have bothered. For how else could one have done something about the expert past what was the background of this emergency nationalization?- Oh, my God! They wanted to save Raiffeisen and the hypo sector losses. That's why it was done. It was about the fact that this pleite was in the room. Although it was known that it is not very likely, the Raiffeisen sector also knew that. The representatives of the Raiffeisen sector might be able to waver once. They can come out and confirm that, too, Raiffeisen knew that it is not very likely that the hypo will be sent to the pleite by the Germans. It wasn't likely, but it was in the room. And now there was on the one hand the “Uncle Erwin” who had lost a lot of money over the hypo-commission, and perhaps even his favorite toy, the Hypo Lower Austria, and in addition there was the Raiffeisen sector, which some Members here directly ordered in the House and with half of the Members. They would have lost a lot of money if it had come to a pleite, even if it had been unlikely. That's why we sent out Josef Pröll, who is now well cared for in the Raiffeisen Group, without consultants, of course, because they had only disturbed. They would have said yes: How can you do such a thing?- Oh, my God! How can you save up to €2 billion of loss to the Raiffeisen sector, around the taxpayer up to €20 billion?- Oh, my God! That's what the consultants said: Who's doing that? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But in the logic of our federal government this is quite normal. It's different everywhere. For example, if something is built in Vienna – the Court of Auditors says it again and again – the double is paid. Now I'm wondering, Why? Are they all stupid? - No, they're not stupid! This is like a professional buyer who accepts one million more costs to the detriment of the company to put 100 000 € in his own pocket. He doesn't care about the damage of a million, because he's infected 100,000 himself. And that's exactly the problem with the hypo: To save up to two billions of damage, you just put the whole thing around the taxpayer. One can now say that at that time many did not know that it would be a mountain of up to 20 billion. You can say that, okay. The chancellor has even spoken of 4 to 5 billion. [[Abg. Krainer: 4 to 7, not 4 to 5!]] I remember very well. It may be that you didn't even look at the scope that way. But then it would be particularly interesting if the Lord Obernoster were not to come out, but you, Mrs Fekter, and here would be speaking and replying instead of sending anyone out. That would be appropriate once, because in the end, you too have been blinded. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Look, the problem we have in this country is that we have so-called party representatives in Parliament, and especially the government parties. And what we would need is citizens' representatives. [[Abg. Krainer: What are you?]] You know why? – Because a citizen’s representative would never get involved in anything like this. Parliament has responded to this emergency nationalization. A citizen's representative wouldn't do that. A party representative does something like that. You know why? – Because a party representative is just the party and all those, like Raiffeisen, like the uncle Erwin from Lower Austria, the trade unions and so on, in the background. That means what we need is ordinary citizens' representatives. But you're against it. [[Abg. Krainer: What are you?]] In particular, Mr Krainer, you are opposed to it, because you are not aware of the interests of the citizens, but of the self-interests, and that is the problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As long as we don't change that as long as we don't change it in the direction that the citizen gets a place in this House again, as long as hypo will happen on the running band, that won't remain an individual case. And it's not an individual case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Finally, it is not a case of stupidity, but it is a case of corruption. That's where we have to go. And if Mrs. Griss says it's a case of stupidity, I can only say: No, it's not a case of stupidity, it's a systemic case of corruption. Here, individuals were protected to the detriment of the citizen. That's the problem. In fact, the citizen – and finally – has nothing to say in this country, the citizen is in truth not a relevant size in all decisions making red and black. The citizen has only two tasks: to choose once every five years and pay taxes. These are the tasks of the citizen you thought about him. What we want is ordinary citizens' representatives in the House, because then decisions will be better again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7755	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7776	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Estimated citizens on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! We have already heard a lot about what is to be read in this report by the Griss Commission. However, it is of course interesting what this report does not contain and what cannot be found in it, because it was not the subject of the investigation. The crucial question for us is NEOS: Where did all the money come from? Where are these € 15 to 20 billion, this damage that is now around the neck of taxpayers? Where did this money stay? This money has not disappeared, but it has only changed the owner. And it's clear: Missing risk management, a wrong business model or even the financial crisis 2008 cannot be the reason for a loss of €15 to €20 billion in the case of a Landesbank, the Hypo Alpe Adria! A crucial question which we naturally ask ourselves and which is also not to be read about in the Griss report is: Why's the money gone? In addition, we should look at – and I do not want to keep this from the public – such as a credit agreement that is just too typical, for example, a real estate credit agreement, with which Hypo Alpe-Adria looked out. – I am sure that many people at home who have already entered into a credit agreement on a home home can or cannot understand how this happened here. As a rule, it should be independent. give the assessors who evaluate the property. – At the hypo, the experts came from their own home, namely their own subsidiaries. How independent, I wonder, can that be? It is clear, of course, that these opinions were often falsified! A second remarkable factor in these credit contracts was that the borrower was the owner of the property at the same time. Do you know what that means? – The borrower bought himself the property! It was the same person! And why do you do such a thing? – Because you can ask yourself for an overly high purchase price! I can't do that. And, of course, an overcrowded purchase price is the first flight snow for being able to turn money off! Of course, the bank's decision-makers must also be on board in order to achieve this, and then there are naturally kick-back payments to these decision-makers through offshore companies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is modern bank robbery! This is bank robbery in the 21st century. 19th century! Today, it is obvious that you do not have to enter the front door heavily armed anymore, but today you no longer have to dig underground tunnels to the safe room, but today this is simply transferred to the account electronically! Federal Chancellor! They have addressed the investigations and said that it is supposed that everything is going very well, that it will be determined and condemned anyway. Then let's take a look at the relationship! We know that the damage is € 15 billion, or probably € 20 billion. According to media reports, €150 million has been recovered. This is a recovery rate of 0.9 percent, Federal Chancellor! In this respect, one cannot say that everything is okay anyway, that is determined anyway and that the money is recovered. That is not the case! However, it is in your responsibility as head of the Federal Government to strengthen the resources of the investigative authorities, the police and the prosecutor's office, and possibly to establish a special state attorneyship, as is done in many other countries. Why don't you use international organisations, INTERPOL or Europol? – But nothing is done! Mr. Chancellor Faymann! Not only do you bear substantial responsibility for the loss of € 15 to 20 billion, but you also bear responsibility for the fact that nothing is being done now, and that is embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7837	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7859	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mrs Griss himself said in the presentation of the report that the most important knowledge or message for her is that politics in general is too little in the matter and looks too little at the matter, but it looks too much at how the whole thing comes to the public. – Having looked at the debate so far, I can say: This finding is not quite wrong, and it is particularly true of the opposition politicians who have spoken before me, who argue far away from the point of view and make allegations that have nothing to do with what is stated in this report! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It is questionable whether there should also be a bit of a response to the opposition if there is general criticism of politics. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But also the government!]] I also believe that the government and the government parties must face up to this responsibility and this report, and I do. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Thank God!]] But the opposition should also consider whether it is also meant and should therefore work much more on the matter. – I will at least do this in my speech. The first question is the hottest issue, or one of the hottest topics, namely: Where did the damage come from? – In this respect, the report clearly assumes that it originated in Carinthia. This liability decision will also be referred to in this Decision 2004, which will also be cited here. However, you have to say: The legal situation before this decision was the same as after the decision, an unlimited liability. There were only a few differences. Firstly, there is an end to these liabilities in 2007. That is why Mr Kogler always says that the Greens have only agreed to the end of the liability. – That's not quite right, but it's almost right! Secondly, it is also necessary that the financial councils have numerous control and termination rights, but also information obligations at the land day. In other words, the Finance Councils must inform the Landtag annually about the state of liability and continue to see if it was controlled. They had to control, limit the risk and have the opportunity to terminate this liability decision. That is why the Kärntner Examining Committee also concludes that the responsibility is three names – not one but three names! – wears: Haider, Dobernig and Pipeberger. These three FPÖ finance councils are in the report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – You can now call out what you want, these three names are in it! How often did the Finance Council report on the liability to the Carinthian Landtag? How many times was that? - Not! No invoices have been submitted! And when it was submitted late, was it taken note of or rejected by the Landtag? – He was rejected! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Where is the seriality now?]] That's the thing you can look at! Second point: Emergency nationalization. – It is not in that it was a nationalization in need. Everyone is always trying to say what he has said before afterwards and to do so as if it were in the report. – It stands in that, in any case, the emergency nationalization was not alternatively non-existent in its design. This means that one cannot say whether the emergency stateization was alternatively non-existent, but at least one could have negotiated it better. It's inside and nothing else. Anyone who claims something else goes beyond the text. Whatever you criticize – this number is coming back again and again – is that Bavaria had 6 billion risks, so almost €6 billion of the Bayern are on the table. - Yes, that's right! One question: How much euro did the Bavaria get up and go home? With how much of the 6 billion euros did they go home? – I know: They drove home with a euro! Three billions have just cleared them away from the table, and two and a half billion are still on the table, which is now on the table of a judge – and it would have ended up in a bankruptcy as well – who decides whether to get the money back or not. The Bavaria drove home with a single euro and not with 6 or 8 billion! – These are just facts you need to talk about! There are also a number of other arguments, such as that the elections are guilty. One hears again and again that this was delayed because of the elections. – However, there has not been any choice in the period in question, neither 2011 nor 2012! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Please, let's stay with the thing! Let us criticize what is to be criticized, but not all! – Essentially, not only are the mistakes of individuals, but also those of systems. That is why there is the proposal that national mortgage institutions should do what they can and what they were allowed to do earlier, namely to handle mortgage loans and residential loans and to grant pledges! And all other business areas and expansions in other countries are to be set aside. I would advocate that we come here to a proper and objective debate and a proper solution. That is why I am trying to reconsider Mrs Griss's accusation that politics is populist, and I think, above all, that the opposition parties should think a bit about how they are sticking to the matter and how far away they are from the matter in truth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7945	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7966	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I think the chronology of the largest economic debacle in this republic has already been shown x-th time. The Griss Commission's report clearly states something: He shows where the causes lie, where the whole thing happened, and what mistakes were made back then. And from today's point of view, it also shows – and this is what the committee of inquiry will show – which errors may have occurred during the repair process. In one point, however, I am quite sure: If we now see what happened in this hypo-debakel, starting from management to political responsibility in Carinthia, nationalization and everything that has yet to come, I am convinced, from today's point of view, that it would have been quite different if one had only known in the approach, what will happen and what will happen to the taxpayer. In my opinion, therefore, all parties should ask themselves the questions of this really biggest debacle of the Second Republic: What can we learn from it? What controls should be used? Where did you fail? – The answers to these questions need to be found so that something like this really never happens again! Just a short time back to chronology: We know how the level of liability has increased. We know who was politically responsible. We know that there was a big-scale board of directors in this hypo. We know that Carinthia had to sell in 2006 because then the swap business and the losses came on the tapet. One had to repay the convertible debt bond of € 500 million. Carinthia was not able to do this, and that's why it was necessary to sell the bank. That was the most expensive credit Carinthia ever received! Within a year, only €56 million of interest was paid! Let us take a look at the contributions of the individual political groups here in the room. It is precisely on the part of the Freedom Party that it is most strongly condemned that this nationalization has come about. ==References== This nationalization took place on December 1, 2009, and of course we know the names of the members of the Federal Government at the time of these negotiations. But what will always be kept silent is who was still sitting there at that time. – At that time, the state captain of Kärn- ten Dörfler was sitting there. At that time, financial referent Dobernig sat there. The Carinthian holding directors were sitting there, and it was Martinz sitting there. [[Abg. Hagen: Martinz!]] I said Martinz was sitting there too! There was a package for this nationalization at the time, and the federal government, the Bavaria, the GRAWE and the country of Carinthia had to spend some €1.5 billion in equity at the time. At the time, Carinthia has committed itself to contributing €200 million to the transfer of equity. Then the Carinthians drove home and celebrated this at home as a success. You can see in this picture, which I show you, the smiling faces of the head of state and the financial officer. But that wasn't it alone: At the time, Carinthia needed a decision from the holding, the state government and the Carinthian Landtag in order to agree to this nationalization and release these €200 million. And now I'm speaking to you, Mr. Darmann! You're often condemning this nationalization. . I have the minutes here with your then speeches and also those of your colleagues. At that time, a majority decision was taken in the Carinthian Landtag concerning these €200 million for nationalization, with the votes of the Carinthian Freedom Party and with the votes of the ÖVP, without which this nationalization would not have existed. Mr Darmann, the record is long, but I'm just quoting a speech from you now. You were Klubobmann's deputy at the time, just as you are here today also Klubobmann's alternate. You said that the matter discussed is important – I quote – “because the conclusion and thus the finalisation of this rescue package for the hypo of the last weekend was a final positive outcome in a project to ensure order again, and thus a positive outcome of this matter was given to all of us Carinthia”. Furthermore, you stated that the access of those present may be different – I quote – because “in contrast to the SPÖ, the government members of Carinthia, who are negotiating in Vienna, of the Freedoms in Carinthia and the People’s Party, have assumed their responsibility”. Now a quote from this protocol: “This business was certainly bad for Bavaria. This business was difficult for the federal government, this business was good for Carinthia.” And finally a word for nationalization. “We can be glad that we have solved the problem of Hypo so successfully!” – These are the statements of the liberals for nationalization, including decision in the government, in holding and in the Carinthian Landtag.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7997	Mr deputies, your speaking time is exhausted. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Obernosterer.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8036	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! I have gained several insights from the outcome of the Commission of Inquiry. My first understanding is that I have a hundred percent revision of my opinion about Mrs. Dr. Griss. And I have to do abbit. I thought that this commission was only intended to cover everything. But I don't want to apologize. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Look here!]] Secondly, I was right in the result of this Griss report with my line to a hundred percent and, of course, the Freedom Party. I would also like to thank Mr Matznetter on this occasion, who quoted our Federal Party partner HC Strache in the “Zentrum” programme, who already massively criticized 2005 this acceptance of the liabilities by the country of Carinthia. It is clear that we liberals have always made this clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thirdly, For me, this report is a guide to an investigation committee, which, of course, needs to be supplemented by recent findings and, above all, by events whose examination was not covered by this audit task – sales of the South-East Europe subsidiary, the Italian subsidiary et cetera. Fourth knowledge: It was a multifunctional failure of control and political leaders, all responsible. This goes from taking over the liability and goes to nationalization without need. It is to be clear who was all saved in this nationalization. Mrs Nachbaur has referred to it today. It is also about: Why was a so-called CSI used to work out the past, rather than taking care of saving the bank? It is also stated in the Griss report that this was only for the Bank's damage. Moreover, it is also to be clarified why a renovation was expected, just because one did not want to raise government debt. – Austria cannot always be a favorite of the EU. We must also face our mistakes! Fifth, you open a bottle I call for information without the respect of persons and parties – that can only be achieved by a committee of inquiry – and the consequences must also be drawn from it. Mr Klubobmann Schieder – I do not know if he is present – I would advise you to change your strategy once, because if you as a Republic wanted to bring a complaint for mistreatment, you would have to admit that this nationalization was not an emergency nationalization, and therefore you must also be able to admit your own mistakes! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Sixth knowledge: The process and the actions and actions of all the actors became self-evident and served only the self-interest – quote from the Griss report – every means was right to give the FPÖ to the pranger at the expense of the Republic, the taxpayers and our residents. In her manner of assigning Causa to the Freeman and Jörg Haider, the clear look was saddened and party interest unfortunately ran into state interest. Ladies and gentlemen! The final sentence of the Griss report says everything: “It cannot also be approved by the Federation that it has made its decisions as the sole owner of the HBint for the benefit of the Bank and the general public.” Now I expect everyone to return and we open and honest up these Causa in the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8094	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8115	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! There is no doubt that this is the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic, and the epicenter for this financial scandal – which is also out of question – was probably placed in Carinthia with the decision of liability. [[Abg. Rädler: Professor!]] But the liability decision – the invention of this holding structure, this holding law – already fell in 1991; it was significantly responsible for this: Jörg Haider. What followed then – in reality to this day – can only be referred to by the word “structured responsibility of many actors”. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] This begins with the inflatation of the bank in the face of financial supervision – OeNB, FMA – through the turning-off of a highly successful investigation committee in 2007, through a so-called fast assessment by the Austrian National Bank in 2008 for the granting of participation capital – at a time when this bank has already been mause dead – to emergency nationalization without need in 2009 and then, when the bank was bought by the Republic for a euro, leads to a situation in which the acting actors were particularly characterised by one: No strategy, no responsibility, chaos. They simply didn't know what to do with this national bank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This structured responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, was well described by the Griss report – that is not a question – but much of it has not been new. We have often stressed this at this point and have not become tired of stressing it. However, I would warn against consecrating Mrs Griss on the basis of this report, and there is no reason to do so. I would like to mention a few examples of this – it has already been cited a lot –: The scapegoat for this disastrous development of the bank, which may cost taxpayers €15 billion, was not the decision in 2004 on liability, no – I have already said – but is already going back to 1991. In 2004 a decision by the European Commission – negotiated by Schwarz-Blau with the European Commission – was implemented by the Landtag. What should be done with it was to put an end to this inadequacy. It is true that this decision could have been more complete – that is true – that we would have wished for all of us. And we would also like the Landtag to implement this decision more restrictively. So we could have saved ourselves a lot in this situation. - That's the first point. The second point: The Griss report is of course – but it has already been pointed out – also incomplete. It ends sometime in 2013 and leaves the question, that is, the only question relevant to taxpayers, after the emergency stateization without need. Why was not the path of insolvency chosen? Why has the procedure been postponed for so long? Why has a decommissioning bank been set up? – Whether this has actually been contained on the behalf of Mrs Griss will still be examined. The third question, which concerns the political responsibility of all the actors involved, is why the actors acted in the way they acted, and what interests they have pursued. Have they pursued self-interests to conceal that mistakes have been made in custody? Have they protected the believers? With what interest have they acted? However, the situation of motivation and interest – which the Committee of Inquiry will very much examine – remained in the dark in the report by Mrs Griss. If Mr. Jan Krainer tells us that the Bavaria have gone home with a euro, I would like to answer him: Bavaria has left us a backpack, which is still heavy for taxpayers 5,5 billion € and will probably be 15 million € at the end of the day. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] With the purchase through Austria, the Bavaria have found a deer that has taken this bank from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8173	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8194	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I was impressed last Tuesday, i.e. Tuesday, a week ago, when the summary part of the Griss report came to my mind. An understandable language, a clear breakdown, a good English summary of the short part and a striking content have in this combination rareness value. [[Abg. Lopatka: Do you know what Lugar said to this Commission?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to include this report, for example, the Tower Commission's report on Iran-Contra Scandal. Really well done. [[Abg. Lopatka: Tell the Lugar! Tell your colleague Lugar!]] However, when I looked at the long part, I had doubts, and I wondered if something was missing. Like other colleagues, I focus on the 2009 share purchase – referred to by the government parties as an emergency nationalization. The Commission has essentially found out that the Austrian side has been pulled over the table in the absence of adequate preparation from the Bavarian opposite side. It reads like this: "The failure of the federal government () lies in a lack of information, () in the lack of strategic planning and the lack of implementation of the known information into a negotiating strategy." In other words: The Austrian side fell on the insolvency bluff of the Bavarian side. But this is only a part of the strategy, because there was obviously a double strategy, which I do not think has been really understood so far. Just once, in paragraph 654, the Griss report – well-noticed: in the conjunctive – notes that Trichet, the President of the ECB, called Novotny and warned of insolvency. In fact, the ECB should have intervened massively at the end of the negotiations and last decisive night and put the unforeseen consequences of bankruptcy into space – the unforeseen consequences for the Balkans. If you know that there is only European money to secure peace, you also know what that might mean. The Austrian negotiators obviously had no idea why the callers of the ECB had been so well informed. The answer is obvious. The Bayern were represented by the Austrian office of the international law firm Freshfields. Freshfields Germany has advised the Federal Ministry of Finance in the period October 2008 to October 2009 and has itself developed the Financial Market Stabilisation Act and the corresponding regulations – by the way you can read this on Wikipedia – and for this a colported fee of more than €5 million. The Austrian side did not know anything. Those who develop such a financial market stabilisation law must also be in constant contact with the ECB. In other words: Freshfields Germany certainly knows all the right and important telephone numbers at the ECB. Therefore, the double strategy of Freshfields, which – and I can agree with my friends from Freshfields – is not actually on the noodle soup, is obvious: the insolvency threat on the one hand and the igniting of the ECB warning on the other. Dear members of the negotiation team, it has never happened strange to you that Bayern is threatening you with insolvency and that the phone calls come from behind: There's no insolvency at all!Unknown term type: "%s".? In this situation you have brought yourself by not looking for the right consultant and not applying the right strategy. Now, with an error fight, looking for the width after the opposite has told you, that's a favor after you've been advised by the FMA and the OeNB, seems to me to have a level of professionalism similar to the strategy you've pursued there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8247	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8268	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers, who will pay you for the hypo disaster for many years – especially the young people I see here on the gallery today! At the end of this current hour, I can summarize the hypo disaster: The Griss report is very clear. Therefore, the hypo is a system failure of the supervisory authorities. - Point one. The hypo – point two – is a discouraging sequence of misbehaviors of political decision-makers. The hypo is thus also a reminder of political incompetence – in this dimension unique in Austria. Hypo is Europe's largest bank robbery ever to take place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] It could never have happened in this dimension that money simply disappears and we don't know where to go. Money doesn't disintegrate! Professor Heinz Mayer says very aptly that the hypo is the “greatest asset shift” outside wartimes. [[Abg. Kogler: - annihilation!]] It's clear that the money only changed the owner. But we do not know where, but we only know that we will pay for many, many years. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I brought you a stone from the city of Hypotopia. [[Abg. Strolz shows a concrete square with the title “13 pers 1.2 million. ‘€’.]] [[Federal Chancellor Faymann speaks with Federal Minister Brandstetter and Abg. Lopatka.]] You know that a few weeks ago, students of the Technical University built the sixth largest city in Austria as a model at Karlsplatz. They have used 70 000 kilograms of concrete to build that city we could build if we had not sent this money into criminal channels or other questionable corners. In Austria we could build a city for young people who, even if they earn twice, can hardly afford a home today, a city of the size, from the dimension between Innsbruck and Klagenfurt. We cannot build this city, these apartments will not exist because we have lowered this money due to political incompetence. This block alone – 70 000 kilos of concrete have installed the students – stands for a house for 13 people and is worth 1.2 million €. [[The speaker shows the concrete stone again]] I think that you should actually put this block on your desk as a reminder of political incompetence or, if you want it to be more friendly, as a reminder of responsibility that we politicians bear. Mrs Steßl, I give it to you, please hand it over to Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Abg. Strolz hands over the concrete quarter to State Secretary Steßl.]] [[State Secretary Steßl: He's here anyway!]] The Federal Chancellor is there anyway, but he takes no note. Maybe he's taking the stone. [[Federal Chancellor Faymann continues to speak with Federal Minister Brandstetter and Abg. Lopatka.]] The summary of the Griss report points out: “The covenant cannot be approved of having made its decisions () for the good of the general public.” Again: The covenant cannot be accepted as having made its decisions for the benefit of the general public. – We are in the service of the general public, we are paid by the general public, we have to serve the general public! And even if an expert body commissioned by the Federal Government, a commission comes to a consistent conclusion that you have not served the general public, the question arises who you have served. Of course, it becomes obvious and clear here: They have served your power-political interests and no other calculation. I take it again – in the Griss report this is also up-to-date – that the Commissioner for Competition, Almunia, was already on 14 May. March 2013 once again warned that one should go into a settlement and that it is not the way one does it. ==References== March 2013! ==References== May 2013 writes to you once again the Supervisory Board Chief Ditz, nominated by ÖVP, that you have to go to a Bad Bank, into a settlement. Because you wouldn't do that, you risked another billion. ==References== ==References== The Federal Government has received this letter and has decided that it will not take any steps before the election in September. They take the money of these taxpayers – over 2 billion this year alone – to invest in the case of Hypo until the national elections. Exactly after the National Council elections – two to three weeks later – the hypo topic has arrived in the public. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Does anyone think that's a coincidence?- Oh, my God! - No! They have deliberately taken control of taxpayers' money to deceive voters. That is why I say once again that this government has no legitimacy on the basis of this suffrage. Take responsibility and step back, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8360	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:39:11]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8382	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:39:42]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the request 2556/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8639	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 2645/J by Mr Zinggl, colleagues on the minutes of the Bundestheater Supervisory Council meetings by Mr Bundesminister for Finance. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8660	I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Mr Loacker asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the Motion for a resolution 351/A(E) by Mr Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the cancellation of compulsory insurance in statutory pension insurance due to employment in the pension, a period of up to 10 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the reply to the question. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8691	The debate on points 1 to 3, 4 to 6, 7 to 11, 12 to 18, 20 to 22, 24 and 25 and 28 and 29 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8715	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95, and STRONACH and NEOS each 50 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the just-shown speaking time. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:42:19]] 1. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 718/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Constitutional Law, the Constitutional Court Law 1953, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Rules 1975, the National Council Election Order 1992, the Federal Relation Act and the Media Law (439 d.b.) 2. Point Second reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 719/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975), and on the Question No 306/A by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a federal law which amends the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975), and on the Question 12/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on amendment 720/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and adopting a Federal Law on the Information Order of the National Council and the Federal Council (InfoG) (441 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8839	We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Ing. Lugar. As a voluntary speaking time limit, I set 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8867	Madam President. High house! My very dear television viewers! In the beginning, I would like to make one clear: Of course, we always wanted to secure a minority right! I have been fighting in Parliament for six years for this to come, and today we are discussing it. Everyone here will decide unanimously – apart from us. And now it's about explaining why. Are we so mad? Or didn't we understand? Or why aren't we for that? [[Abg. Brosz: I think the second!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Both!]] Well, let's take a look at it: What's that about? . After all, we had the problem that we have made more than 20 requests for the setting up of an investigation committee and that more than 20 applications have been rejected by the government parties over and over again, because they seem to have no control here. [[Abg. Wöger: For good reason!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's a fool!]] And then, all of a sudden, there was this minority right! [[Abg. Wöginger: “Suddenly”?! - Six months!]] I can still remember how the two clubmen were happy to have coroners and lopatka like Max and Moritz under the Christmas tree when this agreement was there. [[Abg. Wöginger: “Suddenly”! - That upsets me!]] Now I'm wondering, Why are they so happy that they had the opportunity to let that happen before? – The answer is simple: Because this compromise, which was mainly broken by the Greens – the others just went along – actually started as a tiger, jumped as a tiger and landed as a bedhead. That's the problem. [[Abg. Glauvisch-Piesczek: Such a fool!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Wöginger: Here we agree]] The problem is that for the right to convene a single committee of inquiry as a minority, we have sold many, many things. And that's... We sold the presidency – it was at the opposition before. We sold the first survey. The initial survey has also been an important point in the past, where we have been able to draw out relevant information. That's gone now. There is now a “government judge”, a procedural judge appointed by the government, who makes the first survey and, of course, can lead the whole in the right direction. Or: Of course, we also sold immunity. And it's very bad: We have also cooperated with a confidentiality system, which is now called the Information Protection Regulation, and in the end we have also sold it in order to obtain this minority right. Finally, we now have the problem that the government, without squatting with the eyelash, no longer needs to be blackened, but simply to declare the whole secret, and no parliamentarian – and that under a threat of punishment, even a prison sentence – has more the opportunity to reveal to the public. – Does it look so transparent?- Oh, my God! Is that the transparency we want?- Oh, my God! If we look closely at it, the Greens in the Committee, after reaching agreement, also said: Yes, it was a compromise solution, we would have expected more; it was a time window that went up, and we were afraid that the government would close this window again, and that's why we took what we could get! – But I say: We could have gotten out a lot more! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If we look closely at it, a minority right should in fact give the minority the opportunity to provide information, and not give the majority the opportunity to prevent everything from happening. That's what's done! We can ask for files, we can also load witnesses, but the government can prevent them in committee. That's the problem! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's all so wrong!]] [[Abg. Brosz: The question is answered: You didn't understand!]] Then you can call the Constitutional Court. But for God's sake, how should he decide according to what criteria? When I – and I will sit in committee – will invite Erwin Pröll to the committee, and the government says: No, the Erwin Pröll has nothing to do with that!, then how should the Constitutional Court decide whether the Erwin Pröll actually told the Josef Pröll at that time, we need this emergency nationalization? If the government says no, the Erwin Pröll has nothing to do with this, then the Constitutional Court can do nothing either. And that's the problem! . So if we were to introduce a minority right, it would be necessary to regulate it in such a way that the minority in the Committee can decide everything that comes, which files will be requested, who makes the first question who is the chairman. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] That would be a minority right! But, of course, the government does not want this because, of course, the government, if it is important, wants to keep the lid on it. You are not interested in information, otherwise you would have said yes on the 20 opportunities to set up a committee that has already existed here. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's a naughtiness!]] [[Mr Brosz and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein were cheerful.]] But you don't want it, you don't want any information! An instrument has now been created to cover up – you will still be able to speak. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Wögerer: Sit down's Ihna!]] I can only say one thing: It would have been much more inside, and we unfortunately had glass beads turned on. [[Abg. Lopatka: You hurt your party!]] The whole thing will no longer bring some clarification, but it will ultimately bring about what you, Mr Lopatka, have been so pleased with. [[Abg. Lopatka: You hurt your party!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: You're hurting the party!]] They were happy, together with the Lord of Arbitration. It will ultimately bring what you want, namely the ability of the government to cover things and not to reveal them. [[Abg. Lopatka: You are a damage to this new movement of old Frank!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9167	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9188	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision at second reading, or following the decision in third reading, will be tomorrow – the word should not be stretched too often, but in this context it is rightly durable – a historic decision for the Austrian Parliament. The question was, how to get a minority right to set up a committee of inquiry so as to combine it with a better and fairer set of rules, which is also better in line with the general objective of a committee of inquiry, namely to clarify political responsibility on matters and not to become a tribunal. We have been negotiating a proposal here for a long time. I believe that the way in which these legislative proposals have been drawn up is already exemplary for a modern parliamentaryism and also a approach in Parliament, which will not always and in the future be there in every question, but which should already be a symbol: that five parties of this House have fought intensively for weeks and months to come up with a solution here. Of course, each party has had a different starting point in this dispute, but we meet here as five parties. That's enough, I think. I am sorry that Mr Lugar is not here, but is not essential to the question. Five parties meet at a negotiating point, and this is the point: A quarter of the Members may, with their signature, submit a request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, and this Committee of Inquiry shall also be deemed to have been set up after consideration in the Committee of Rules of Procedure. This is an essential step in the development of democracy. At the same time, however, we also have stricter rules: Rules on how to deal with secrets and brilliant information so that Parliament can deal with them, but at the same time also the legitimate interests of third parties, not those affected, and how we can speed up the procedure in such a way that an investigation committee cannot become an eternal matter, but can contribute specifically to the solution to these issues. This is precisely on a day when we discussed the hypo question in the morning, of course, in this context. The way is free that a quarter of the Members in this House can request the investigation of the hypo issues, and that is nothing bad. On the contrary! It is certainly also reasonable and beneficial for our democracy. In addition to the fact that I consider the way to be so exemplary, let me go into the future too! We'll decide now, with 1. In January, this package of laws, this reform of the Rules of Procedure concerning the Committees of Inquiry will enter into force, and then the question will be: What specific topic is it about, what form will it bring in, and when will it be introduced? Most likely we will have to expect a committee of inquiry with January, and then it is up to us and also particularly much for the members of the opposition to raise this new right to a reasonable life. With the change in the rule that a quarter of the Members can make a request, the opposition parties are much more in the driver's seat on this issue. Therefore, the political responsibility of dealing with this new instrument in the future is a common one, but of course there is also a strong responsibility for the individual representatives of the opposition parties, so to speak, that the people who say there are to be committees of inquiry in Parliament, see that, at the end, there are also results and reports that show a way to avoid mistakes in the future. To mention this political responsibility is just as important as the political responsibility for us as representatives of the government parties to go this way in the negotiations as we have so far gone. I would also like to express this appeal now, but I would also like to thank you once again for being able to bring this historic reform into line in a very constructive negotiating atmosphere over the summer. On a day when Austrian parliamentarianism is taking an essential step forward, it should not be hesitated to refer to it as such, but rather to stand here proudly as a parliamentarian and say: We are glad that we have taken this step, we are proud that we are now and tomorrow allowing Austrian parliamentarianism a substantial, positive development. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9236	The next item is the second president of the National Council, Mr Head of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9258	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the televisions at home! In addition to legislation and participation in the implementation of laws, the control of government and administration is the third essential task of Parliament, and it is a very important task. After the oral question, after the written question to members of the government, after the use of the Court of Auditors and the Committee of Auditors, the Committee of Inquiry is the sharpest instrument available to a Parliament in the field of control work. So far, the use of this instrument has been a majority right, it has been reserved for the majority of the House to use this instrument. This is true in most of Europe's and Western European parliaments, but it has always been a great criticism that the opposition parties have expressed in recent years in particular on Parliament's rules of play. This continuing criticism took place on 26 May. In August 2009, four parties of this House were still agreed, namely on the establishment of a rule of play, which allows the minority of this House to use such a committee of inquiry in the future. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's right, four!]] This agreement bears the signature of Josef Cap and of me as then club members of the two government parties. Those who know me a little better know from me that I'm used to keeping agreements. Even though it took five years: I am very, very glad that it has now succeeded in complying with and fulfilling this commitment. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Debt solved!]] I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in the negotiations and who have done so, as I believe, with a very tangible outcome. Thank you all! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, therefore, the majority of Parliament will no longer control the government, but rather the government, and in a milestone, which this House is setting in the development of parliamentaryism today and tomorrow, I think the minority of the House will control the majority in future. As has been said, this is only the case in very few countries in Europe, especially in Germany. To Mr Lugar, I would just like to say one thing – I do not, of course, want to act party-politically here as President –: Mr Lugar, you should already ask yourself the question of how it can be possible for parties that have already committed themselves in the past, before your group has been here in the House, to be very vehement in the work of Enlightenment, and who have always performed it very intensively, to be able to accept this law. If three out of four opposition parties now agree to these legislative proposals, only Your group should perhaps ask yourself the question whether you may not be on the wrong steamer and not the other three. However, this leads me to the second criticism, ladies and gentlemen, which has been repeatedly expressed at the cutting of the committee of inquiry in the past, especially in the rules of the game, namely the handling of this control instrument. The Examining Committee – which must be clear – is not an instrument of state case law. It is an instrument of parliamentary control, it is an instrument of political debate, and therefore it is not objective – nor does it claim to be objective. Everyone goes in there with his ideas. It is not a court, no case law, it is a political stage and a political debate. Nevertheless, this instrument must make sufficient legal claims and move within the rule of law; therefore, it must not take the character of a tribunal against individuals. As important as control in Parliament is, just as important is our rule of law, ladies and gentlemen – just as important is our rule of law! – and this rule of law has to protect the rights of citizens as well as those of politicians, officials and officials, for they are citizens and have rights. If, in future, a quarter of the Members can set up a committee of inquiry, determine the subject, ask for files, determine information, then this is a completely new dimension of rights for opposition in this House. The editor-in-chief of the “Standard” Alexandra Föderl-Schmid recently put it to the fore: The new regulation of the Committee of Inquiry also meant a self-obligation for the parliamentarians not only to misuse this control instrument for self-representation and election campaign purposes, as was the case more often in the past, says Föderl-Schmid. That is, ladies and gentlemen, what we are deciding here today and tomorrow also brings a new task and responsibility for our President, namely the Presidency in future Committees of Inquiry. And you can assume, ladies and gentlemen, that Doris Bures, Norbert Hofer and I will take this task very seriously, that we will make a very serious effort to exercise it responsibly, objectively and with a view to protecting the rule of law. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing has to be clear to us, too, my Ladies and gentlemen: In the future, the public's eyes will be even more focused on the Committee of Inquiry for this "New Investigation Committee". That is, all our behaviour, ladies and gentlemen, will decide whether Parliament is regarded as a valuable and necessary institution, as a hort and as a valuable asset of democracy or not. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will all work together to use the reform of the Committee of Inquiry to strengthen our parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9326	Mr Klubobmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9347	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In an old proverb it is known to say: What lasts for a long time will finally be good. – That’s exactly how you can get it to the point here. There was the request in 2009, which we were very skeptical of, because, unfortunately, God's over years has been confirmed, the interest was not there to really enforce this minority right. It is only thanks to the pressure of the opposition, but above all also to the citizens who have been introduced with petitions, which has also created pressure against the President of the National Council, that it has succeeded in bringing in movement here – with today's very satisfactory result. This result is particularly important as regards minority law, that is, as has already been pointed out, that a quarter of the Members have the right to force an investigation committee, so that the necessary parliamentary control of political responsibility can ultimately be ensured. These are control rights, which are good, and therefore I do not understand Mr Lugar, who has opposed this minority right with his group, because what would be the consequence? – A further obstacle to investigation committees, as we have had to experience in recent years, when 21 requests for opposition to the establishment of an investigation committee have been rejected. That would, as it were, be the fixing of this really undesirable state, and we have broken it up with this today. I hope that, in the future, the government parties will also be more cooperative in setting up an investigation committee, knowing that they will not be able to prevent it anyway. I remember that last week there was a ZIB2 discussion with the former National Council President Khol from the ÖVP, who also publicly documented that the ÖVP would agree with the investigation committee on Hypo. – I am already very excited whether you will really fulfill your promise in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I am grateful to all the negotiators who have really been involved, and of course I am particularly grateful to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, the National Council Clubs and, ultimately, to all those who have contributed here that this common result has been achieved. I do not necessarily want to say that a new era of parliamentarianism is beginning, which would certainly be exaggerated, but with this reform a milestone has been set in the direction of living and good, necessary parliamentaryism. But it must also be clear to us that the National Council must not only manage, but must finally make it more active and, of course, not only the necessary ones. to ensure that there is a change in control and transparency, and we should not let ourselves be degraded to voting machinery. However, I also say that in addition, it is certainly important to further improve in the sense of parliamentarianism, and I stress the demand for direct democracy over and over again. Parliamentaryism is good and important, but it also needs the establishment of direct democracy as a constitutional right for citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of us here in the House should, please, at last take note that there is no need to fear the population, on the contrary! It is necessary and important to strengthen the involvement of the population in direct democratic processes. If the people are forced into popular desire and these popular desires on a subject are also supported with more than 100,000 signatures, this should also lead to constitutionally legitimate referendums. This would be a further step towards supplementing parliamentarism and a necessary step to strengthen the involvement of the people here, so that it is precisely this negative attitude which we often experience today, namely a turning aside from the population from politics, is finally compensated for. This can only be done by involving the population more strongly and not being afraid of it. That is, it's a beginning and not a end point where we arrived today. It's got to go on! The rights of the population need to be further strengthened, so hopefully in the future a further step towards direct democracy will be taken. In this respect, we have already made numerous applications in recent years, and we will not stop working on this issue. The first test of minority law concerning an investigation committee will have us next year when it comes to setting up an investigation committee on hypo, because the opposition will certainly ensure that the investigation committee is jointly. But, of course, there are also other issues that can be quite interesting and relevant in the future: of course, also the development of the Volksbank and other areas of the Republic that are critically illustrious. I say that we can be proud of the fact that today five parties have succeeded in reaching a common outcome after tough, difficult negotiations and discussions. I thank all the club people. We often have a lot to do in terms of content, but, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, you have done quite excellent work here, you have to say this in the context, as well as Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, as well as Mrs Glawischnig, as well as others who have contributed here: At last something has come about where we can all say together that we have jumped over our shadows. We have not only bitten at each other, but have finally made a little progress in the sense of parliamentarism and living control and of the committee of inquiry as minority law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9429	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9451	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate guests! That's the law package that's going on right now. [[the speaker holds a stack of prints in the height]] The central sentence is a constitutional change. Article 53 is now new: ‘The National Council may use investigation committees by decision. In addition, an investigation committee should be set up at the request of a quarter of its members." “Ist to put in,” that is really a historic cäsur in parliamentarianism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When the Greens first moved into the Austrian National Council in 1986, then Freda Meissner-Blue was the clubwoman, there was – as always at the beginning of a legislative period – talks between the party leaders. And it has been said that at that time she announced in conversation with the then Federal Chancellor Franz Vranitzky as one of the central concerns of this new Green Group in Parliament: We want the investigative committee to be minority law. - That's 28 years ago. If one wants to do so, this mission of the Greens to anchor control more closely in the Austrian National Council – control of power, abuse of power – is, Mr Strolz would say, anchored in the genetic code, so to speak, so we are delighted today. [[Abg. Stroll nods agreeing]] Many have worked on this bill – the clubmen, the chief negotiators have already been mentioned, I would also like to mention Dieter Brosz and Peter Pilz of my group. A very warm thank you but also to the chief negotiators of the government parties; for them this was a very big step, however, which was to be taken. A particularly great thank you also to the Parliament's management, which, in an exemplary way, has prepared and finished the legal system – and it was anything other than trivial – in a very, very fast time. – Thank you very much. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Looking back on these 28 years, there has already been a number of things that have remained unexplained, precisely because of the possibility that the government could at any time reject a request for the setting up of an investigation committee and could also end an ongoing examination, i.e. a ongoing investigation committee – that was perhaps the much more difficult point in recent years. There have been significant steps in the fight against corruption that could have been taken to prevent damage from Austria and the population, in particular in the Banking Investigation Committee. These could not then be set anymore, because for some reason there was a “stop!” at once, either by the government itself or by the government groups, and thus further information was no longer possible. The Banking Investigation Committee was particularly dramatic: There were still a number of witnesses who could have helped us to avoid damage in the complex of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, and therefore it is so unfortunate that we had to wait so many years, but the better we are now making a new start. [[Abg. Lopatka: Exactly!]] - Yes, let's do a fresh start! You're smiling, but I think you'll be a little harder in the next few months! [[Abg. Lopatka: But I'm glad!]] It is also – you have to say – the end point of a whole series of laws in the field of... [[Abg. Lopatka:... critical with the new beginning, no tribunal!]] – You were critical yourself, I know you were one of the most critical, but I find it remarkable that you can also jump over these obstacles. It was, moreover, the conclusion of several laws, all in the sense of the population, and I would like to point out this once again. The U-committee as a minority right – that sounds technical and perhaps has something to do with Parliament in the perception of many now, but it is a very essential matter: It is also about prevention of abuse of power and the waste of tax money, and that is something of which every person in Austria will have a lot in the future. It will never be possible for such things as the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft to happen – a finance minister who played with Deals outside and actually wasted and wasted people’s assets – to happen, that’s just not going to happen anymore! In this sense alone is the possibility that there is this instrument, good for the population in Austria. This will have a preventive effect, which must also be said. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There were other laws in the last legislative period in the field of anti-corruption, which we can be proud of, for example, regarding glass party funds: We now know very well who is donating to parties with what interest. We also have something like an election cost limitation. Interesting is the question of whether everyone has adhered to it, but that is also in the sense of the population, so that not infinity of tax money is so to speak put in election battles. We have created a media transparency law, which simply makes certain advertising measures – for example, that government members advertise with their faces – no longer possible. [[Abg. Lopatka: But you have that too, and still do it in Vienna! Vassilakou is still doing this!]] Now to the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law: This is indeed a case of acidity, and I hope that this will significantly change political culture in Austria too. You're always talking in between now! [[in the direction of the Abg. Lopatka]] You've already talked, and I've been listening to you. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has also really burdened the work culture, Mr President Head and Mr Cap, that signatures that have been made have not been redeemed. This has put a great burden on our entire parliamentary work culture, especially at the beginning of the legislative period, because we have to be able to rely on anything in this House, and therefore I am glad that this burden has now been taken away from all of us. It may also be a fresh start that we, as citizens, represent citizens here in the house – I say so consciously now – make a lot more frequent in many laws, also with the support of Parliament's management, far-independent and autonomous laws and self-confident laws. In this way, we not only have a law presented by the government and then change some detail here and there, but we have much more self-confidence as citizens who represent citizens in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9565	Mr Klubobmann Mag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9586	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Citizens on the gallery and on the screens! In fact, I think that today's joint step in the field of research committee is an important step for Parliament. It also beautifully shows the interaction of competition and competition that democracy will always determine. I mean, to highlight this is also important, because – Klubobmann Strache has already stressed it – of course, we often remain, we bite each other or step against the shin. It is, of course, the basis of democracy that a competition must take place between the parties. But it is also the basis of democracy that there are common, overarching objectives that we all have to serve. The common good is such an objective, but, of course, in the division of powers, it is also possible to enable parliamentary control – that is an objective. As an opposition, we have now adopted a new instrument which we, Mr President Head, will also use very responsibly – I would like to promise this to the NEOS Group. We shall seek objective access here. If objectiveness is not to be guided by feelings and sensibilities, but to be in search of the actual situation, then, of course, I think, we will also commit ourselves to objectivity in the committee, although each one will enter the Committee on Inquiry from his point of view, that is clear to me. Also from us NEOS a thank you to the other political groups for their cooperation, it was for us the first co-production of this kind. We are no longer completely new, but still new – I have walked on my way to the toilet today, which is an indication that we are not in the house for so long. Of course, it was a good experience for us to work on a solution here in this community and to bring it over the stage today. Why does the Committee of Inquiry need it as an instrument? – Of course, this shows the case of Hypo – the Desaster Hypo – quite clearly. The Griss report – for some, an alternative to an investigative committee – has produced many important results and is a good starting point for the investigative committee. However, the Griss report cannot answer, for example, the question of why: Why did these decisions or non-decisions come about? This was not in the focus of a Commission such as the Griss Commission, i.e. a body of this section. A committee of inquiry can, of course, address the question of why. A committee of inquiry may also be responsible for personal or institutional responsibility, including personal or institutional responsibility. A committee of inquiry can also address the question of political responsibility quite differently – Mrs Griss said quite consciously: that is not my topic – and of course a committee of inquiry can also open up new channels in the matter of criminal relevance, although this is not at the heart of an investigation committee. In this sense, I look forward to the “outing” next year as part of the Committee of Inquiry. I think that's gonna do the right thing for politics. Politics is the place where we figure out how we live together, and if there are inconsistencies and responsibilities in this place in a large way, then we need to study them properly and learn from them, and we can do so with the “Research Committee New”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9638	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Lugar. [[Abg. Lopatka: Oh you!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9670	Mr President. High house! Mr Strolz has once again motivated me to get out. I very much appreciate you for addressing things honestly and honestly in the past, and I would have expected you to say how the whole thing came about. [[Abg. Lopatka: So do you agree with that now, the law?]] In the Committee it was true that you complained about the fact that you were not involved in the negotiations! [[Abg. Lopatka: Do you agree to the law now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] You complained that over your head this was ultimately negotiated by the Greens, and all the positions you represented at the beginning – namely, that the first question by a Member of Parliament must be done, that was your position – which you finally gave up! [[Abg. Lopatka: But no, Mr Lugar, you agree!]] Of course, it would be honest to say – and perhaps it would not be bad if you came out here for a second time too; I would like you to lift up the wings to do so – that not everything has come as you expected. Of course you can say: Okay, that was a compromise! – There we are already on the right ferry: It was a compromise! And that's my criticism! [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is the meaning of democracy!]] On the one hand, there was the desire for a hypo investigation committee, and on the other hand, there was the public pressure that the government finally allowed an investigation committee after 20 rejections in Parliament. That was the situation! And then some – including the FPÖ – said: We now accept and accept everything and everyone, just to get this committee of inquiry! [[Abg. Lopatka: That's not true at all! That's wrong!]] My point was that we continue to put pressure on the government to ensure that a minority right comes – I always wanted to – but not just as you designed it, because, in the end, you give the minority the opportunity to set up an investigation committee, but then prevent the Enlightenment in the Committee, not only in the committees set up by the minority, but in all the committees. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Right at least!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Less right! You don't know what you're talking about!]] That means that we have worsened the situation for all committees. And if you have listened carefully, you can say that Mr. Kopf has also said this today, which has assumed that I am not intelligent enough, because I am the only one who is concerned about an opposition party. [[Abg. Arbitrator: President!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: You have concerns! You're hostageing your party!]] Take a look at this! – The first question by a Member of Parliament is extremely important, because the first question can also be addressed. It is in the law that the information subjects are protected by a four-stage procedure. And the Lord Kopf has also said that we are trying to protect the people who know the most. – What exactly is there to be protected? It is intended to protect the information person from saying something that might ultimately be unpleasant for the government. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: There's something confused again!]] That's exactly what was negotiated in this law! That means: On the one hand, there is the minority right that we always wanted, and on the other hand, it has been designed in such a way that, when it comes, the minority cannot be informed again because the government has the opportunity to intervene. [[Abg. Lopatka: You're hurting your party again! You're a terrible harm to your party!]] You, Mr Lopatka, have laughed at Mrs Glavischnig because she said that Parliament's right to control is at last here. [[Abg. Lopatka: (Ironically laughing) Why do you always harm your party?]] You laughed at her! And I also know why you did it: Because you know that the government, if it wants to, does not have to block everything in the committee, but can do it. And that's the problem! [[Abg. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: No, she can't!]] The problem is that she can do it! And now we can only hope – and there all my hopes rest on the President – that the President will also step in and allow information. [[Abg. Brosz: You're not just bocky!]] We'll see if that's what it's gonna be like. I would have been sure of Mrs Prammer; I still know too little about the new President, but I hope that she will allow information. And I hope that the majority of the committee will not re-invigorate the information and transparency that has been the case in the past. [[Abg. Lopatka: Have you read the law at all?]] That's why you're both happy! I've seen since we agreed, just a smile on your lips. [[Abg. Strache: You're not here today for transparency and truth!]] Look, Mr Strache, I know you have agreed to this because you finally wanted a committee, but I believe that if we had endured longer, it would have been different. [[Abg. Strache: That's where you really missed the transfer!]] Mr. Strache, you have accused the hypo and the state of Austria that they have been pulled over the table by the Bayern. I say: Most of the opposition parties have been drawn over the table by the government, and this minority right has been highlighted. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] In the end, they have done a great deal of damage that cannot be remedied for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10000	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10022	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! I am particularly pleased that students of the Polytechnic Amstetten are with us, because it is also a topic for the future. Welcome, dear students! [[General condolences.]] At the first reading on this novel, I have already found that in the future it will be assessed what these decisions of today in the second reading and tomorrow in the third reading will bring for quality. I also say quite openly: It was not easy to bring six different opinions to a common denominator in the negotiations which had been taking place since spring. I'll stay with you. This law is now the result behind which we all then put ourselves – with the exception of my previous speaker! Either he didn't know what it really was about, or he deliberately says something wrong. If I look at his way between the various political groups that he has so far gone, I do not wonder that he goes to the speaker's desk several times and either deliberately says something wrong, or he really does not know what we have been negotiating for months. But we're positive today. [[Abg. Lopatka: He doesn't know what he's talking about!]] Mr Darmann, you were there! The central point was that we have got away from the majority of the government groups and have tried to define that Parliament is also a state power, together with the other state powers, to be assessed. We have focused our attention on having a modern Parliament to want to have a strong Parliament, which will certainly become even more important in the times that are not going to come. That was the point behind which we all stood! And from that moment on, I felt it was the right way to go with five political groups, and we have achieved a good result, as I mean. As one who has had a lot of difficult questions to deal with here in the hall – we have been sitting in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for many years: It is also good for me if, with these decisions of today and tomorrow, we really bring together a quantum leap in Austrian parliamentarianism. This is the performance of the negotiators! I think we should see that properly or go into the right light. For me, it has always been of great importance that we have a strong Parliament, a Parliament at an equal level with the administration and with jurisdiction. But then we can only have the presidency in Parliament's lap. [[Abg. Kogler: That's right!]] And as to what has happened today, Mr Lugar, I do not only trust our President, but I also have full confidence in the Second and Third Presidents, because all our rules of play, which we have here, for the procedures in Parliament, are made up in the presidential, and so far everything has always worked. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] You can't make yourself here and say that's government officials. First of all, it's not true, and second of all, I mean: If we no longer trust our own President, it has its own quality, which I do not even want to talk about, Mr Lugar. You have to think about what you're saying. We want to get to a reasonable approach in the committee of inquiry, we now want to stop the tribunal-like processes that we know from the past. All Members of this House know what it was like. We want to proceed correctly from the first decision-making. I think it is good rules that we have worked out together. We will determine the topics and work out step by step in an intrusive way. Our task is to clarify political responsibility. [[Abg. Lopatka: Exactly!]] We must not make the mistake, as we know from the past, that one believes he's playing the prosecutor, and the other thinks he's a judge. [[Abg. Head: Draw the right conclusions for the future!]] That's right! We want to correctly implement the findings we have gained from what we have experienced in the past. That's how I see this five-party union! I have a high expectation that we will be able to provide valuable service not only to Parliament but also to the Austrian population and general policy. I would like to thank everyone as one who spent many months with many talks during the rounds of negotiations. We had a very collegial, a proper working relationship at all levels. I really want to thank everyone for this. I wish this House, the Austrian Parliament, the place of democracy, in the sense of today's and tomorrow's decisions in this Causa continued to be a great success. I think we're on the right track and thank everyone again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10124	Mr Klubobmann spoke. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10145	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, you are already harming the third party. The only new thing today was that you gave two speeches in a debate. But otherwise, there's never anything positive in you! [[Intervocations and ironic hustle and bustle in greens and FPÖ.]] You have at first condemned the Griss Commission! I do not want to repeat this at all, but what you said to President Griss was honourable. You can read this in the APA. The decisive thing is – and that is why I mention you, Mr Lugar – that the other parties agree to this law and find it such a large majority. Mr Rebaur, perhaps consider You still do, and perhaps the rest of your group will agree with this law. [[Call the Stronach team.]] Otherwise, I would have to say – freely after the Gospel of Luke: Lord forgive them, for they do not know what they do. Really! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Oh, call the team Stronach.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] I'll tell you: You do nothing good to the Frank Stronach movement if you refuse this law here today, because with this law we do – and as government parties, which is not easy for us! – exactly what the citizens expect of us. Name: We are strengthening the opposition so that a legally strengthened opposition can best exercise its control rights! This is by no means a matter of course in Europe, and you know that! The right that a quarter of the Members can already set up a committee of inquiry, in fact, we find this right in the form only in Germany. What was important to me is the following: If we say yes to this minority right – and we do! – should we also say yes to a stronger legal procedure. For this reason, it was so important to me that a trial judge/procedural judge is at the side of the president in the chair, i.e. a legal personality who is really in the process management. Then: I already agree with a committee of inquiry on a quality different from that which has been the case so far. If this trial judge/judgment is the first to survey the final question, prepare the report accordingly, is involved in the negotiations in the Ministry of Justice – for we will always have committees of inquiry on issues in which judicial proceedings are pending – then this is a major progress in general. With regard to Mr Brosz's call for tender, I would like to say: What if President Griss were the trial judge here? Then, of course, all their members could be invited by the investigative committee as persons. [[Abg. Brosz: And she's not?- Oh, my God!]] Nothing's going to be silent. But President Griss would guarantee that from the first day on this committee of inquiry could work at a high level. Consider whether your concerns are really appropriate. We should ask President Griss – perhaps also the representatives of the Stronach team – to support us in this first committee of inquiry as much as possible. I am aware that we will continue to have committees of inquiry from next year onwards. It's what we're trying to do. Only: I ask all the opposition parties that we should keep in mind what the Germans have succeeded, namely that the subject of the investigation is at the heart of the work of the committee of inquiry. We have always said that we want to lean on the German model without taking over one. In Germany, however, the focus is on the subject of investigation and non-small-cared party-political Hickhack with Tribunal-Charakter. I hope we manage. We know that the hypo will be the subject of an investigation committee. We're open to it here. We want to make every contribution to the fact that this is the case. That is what the citizens expect. Because one thing is quite certain: Investigation committees can contribute to making legal improvements where necessary in the interests of citizens. In the case of the hypo, for example, in the area of banking supervision or perhaps at the limits of liability of the federal states, and, and, and. There's a lot of points. We should keep in mind if we use investigation committees: To achieve legal improvements in the interests of citizens rather than small-scale political accounts!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10225	The next speaker is Mr Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10246	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! If we are dealing here and today with this century reform of parliamentarianism in Austria – a century reform in the sense of strengthening the parliamentary control of the government and the state administration – I would like to say a proverb: The success is known to have many fathers. [[Call the ÖVP: And mothers!]] I would therefore like to use my short speaking time today to thank those who have contributed to this reform. First of all, I would like to thank the experts of the individual parliamentary groups, whose legal experts, the lawyers, the legalists. In the liberal parliamentary club, our club director was the Councillor of Parliament Mag. Norbert Nemeth and the club director Mag. Heimo Probst lead. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, I would also like to thank the legalists and lawyers of the Parliamentary Directorate who have accompanied the negotiations for months. They have also translated parliamentary political agreement, made it legal and prepared us for decision-making. It is important here to send a thank you very much, because its support was particularly valuable for this compromise and development. I would also like to thank the co-negotiators of the individual political groups who have been involved in the drafting of this law for months. They have managed – and that is what you, dear Otto Pendl, have already said today – to bring to paper in an amical, objective negotiation of this product and, last but not least, to prepare for the vote here in the interests of the people. It is particularly important to highlight the club people from our side. You, Mr Heinz-Christian, dear Mr Klubobmann Strache, thank you very much for supporting this compromise. If I can once again tighten the saying of the many fathers of success: Thanks also to the Austrians, thanks to the online petition – through 250 000 signatures! – have built up pressure. You have reached that the government in the Causa Hypo has stood with the back to the wall, worth Ladies and gentlemen! You, valued Austrians, have demonstrated that you can open a window of negotiation with your individual motivation, bundled with those of 250 000 citizens. They have managed to take advantage of this opportunity of willingness on the part of the government groups. We from the opposition parties have also endeavored to make use of this willingness to work out the best possible in the sense of control and transparency in Parliament. I think – no: Instead, I firmly believe that the present compromise of this minority right in the Committee on Inquiry's Rules of Procedure is a particularly good compromise, one that we can all stand behind! For this reason, it is absolutely incomprehensible for me, ladies and gentlemen of the Stronach team, how one can go on this unbelievable level and, contrary to all the facts, make false claims, just to justify one's own dead end that one has entered in some way. [[Abg. Lugar: Think!]] Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary minority, this right of minority allows us not only to set up an investigation task, a subject of investigation, but also to give the minority the right to arrange the procedure accordingly, to load the information persons selected in their own discretion and to obtain the necessary documents. This is an extreme development contrary to the law in force which has so far been determined by the committees of inquiry! Ladies and gentlemen! We have also managed to continue the conduct of the investigative committee with the presidents of the National Council – contrary to the efforts to entrust external persons with parliamentary rights. This also shows the value we attach to the Austrian Parliament and the self-understanding we have. With this self-confidence, we can also say clearly to the population: We ourselves are able to conduct these committees of inquiry and will continue to be able to do so in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! These negotiations over the last few months in absolute substance have shown one thing: how much, in addition to the otherwise also necessary party political positions, in order to develop a little further here for the Republic as well, positive development for our parliamentaryism is possible when we go together, listen to each other, exchange positions and set the first goal of the well-being of the population and the Republic of Austria in everything we have to do here as parliamentarians. I am looking forward to further positive decisions in this way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10303	I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10325	Mr President. I don't want to repeat everything that has been said. Historically, it is because in Germany, where the model of this change of law is located, the minority law for the establishment of an investigation committee was adopted in 1919. We have managed to follow up in Austria within a hundred years. That sounds a little long now, but you also have to say that this is not a European standard, since we are already far ahead. There are some things in German law that may be better and different. In any case, Austria now joins in this area in a similar way to the party law and the question of party donations relatively far above. This law therefore has a standard in Europe-wide comparison. That is why, historically speaking, it is important because all that has already been mentioned will no longer take place in this form, the turning off of committee of inquiry, the confrontations as they have taken place, the long struggle for the setting up of committees of inquiry. There is also a clear separation between opposition and government. I would also like to say that the negotiations did not even start in this period, six months ago, but we – I look at Josef Cap – have negotiated three times, I believe. The first rounds of negotiations came in 2006 after the election, and there was no SPÖ or ÖVP on this issue, but certainly there were also representatives in the government parties at that time, more in the SPÖ, who previously claimed opposition, insofar as they were also bound to guarantee an investigation committee as a minority law. There was rather the confrontation: one government party wanted the other not yet. In 2009, a new situation came because there was the agreement with both club members. And then, I think, the situation came, rather, that there were many in the parliamentary clubs, who belonged to the government groups, but also government members, where this was not so easy to implement, we say it now neutrally, and that what had to be negotiated there was not necessarily one of the positions of Members, but that in a situation where one has a government behind it, everything was not so easy either. Then, I think, the historic moment came at the last election, where it was already clear that it was also a very big topic in the population and that the failure to set up an investigation committee, the turning off of investigation committees, but also – and that was a big topic at the time of the election – the failure of government members in inquiry committees was something that every member of the government groups had to hear on the street. The question then actually arises why I always have to justify who comes to the committee of inquiry or not. This must have kept the thing alive. The beginning of the negotiations was not so easy. I wasn't so sure at the beginning whether we're gonna find ourselves or not. In contrast to the other rounds of negotiations, however, there have been relatively rapid first movements. And the moment there were movements, it was clear, now it's going to be serious, now we're really negotiating. When it was suggested in the question of witness loads that it was possible to imagine that the minority was getting the right to witness loads, it was clear that now it is going in the direction of really discussing minority law. There are points that could be presented even better or differently – many things have already been said by colleague Glavischnig –: preventive effect. Werner Kogler already has more- From documents relating to the mortgage, where already in the ministries in which the National Bank has been discussed, how do we now do, how do we shape the mail traffic, we write it in, that can land in an investigation committee. Now there is the guarantee that when such a thing appears, there is a committee of inquiry, then there is no one who can protect against it. That is why there will be changes. I would like to take the time to address briefly some of the points raised by Mr Lugar, who has already spoken twice. I would have thought you might mention points that I think it would have been better to call them. You didn't do that. For example, in order to support you, I am sorry that we do not have television broadcasts from investigation committees. This is one of the wormhead drops I also mention that we would have liked it to be different. It can also be discussed whether this restriction on an investigation committee is the yellow of the egg. At first we would have had other ideas. However – and here comes the first point – we have ensured that the opposition has the control of the procedure in hand. The opposition itself has the power to say that a committee of inquiry will be terminated, another will be used. And the rule is, there can always be an investigation committee that is enforced by the opposition, by this quarter. This is a major step in the process. The points you mentioned – and this is the scurril – are not the same. Now you can do this a little bit, but They wanted to discuss the historical truth with Mr Strolz. Let's do this a little bit more! The historical truth was so that we first found ourselves together as a negotiator, colleague Scherak of the NEOS, colleague Darmann, of the Greens, at first I was there, Peter Pilz came in only later then, colleague Schieder, colleague Lopatka. And then there was such a nice gentleman from the Stronach team, whose names I unfortunately did not notice, who had so long hair, it was not Mr. Lugar, but a speaker. - Ah, now he's back there, right, great. [[in the direction of output]] He was very sympathetic, but he said relatively little in the negotiations because he did not have the mandate either. Mr Lugar was not present for the first time during the negotiations. He then came to the negotiations relatively late. And then we had an original situation where, I think, we discussed for an hour whether informationers may have rights in the procedure. The story with the torture now leaves us, where the debate has come up, what you can do to get the truth. All the lawyers have said, apologise, but there is that at every court, so to speak, representation, and you don't have to say everything there, that would have to apply to a trial here. The only one who did not want to take note of this was Mr Lugar. That's how it continued. Then there was a phase in which there were intense four-party negotiations, and finally it came back. Now I'm going to go down to a few points that you mentioned: Witnesses can be prevented. – Interesting. Do you know the system in Germany? Did you look at that sometime? Oh, how does that look? – In Germany, the opposition can say I call this witness and he has to be loaded. Or? Is that so? [[Abg. Lugar denied.]] No, not even. So no better than in Germany. In Germany, the situation is such that procedural law determines, there is minority law, but there needs to be a decision that comes from, by the way, the Germans have several inside. Minority claim, but majority decision, which must confirm it, which in part leads to difficult situations. If they do not make a decision at all, I cannot challenge it either. Perhaps you have looked at the debate on how snowden should have been invited into the NSA committee. This has not been loaded because simply no decision has been made. We have a situation where we have minority law and a legal protection that stands behind where, in the event that there is no link with the subject matter of investigation, there can also be a judicial decision on it – not a decision of the majority on the minority, but an instance that stands on it. The fact that it is better in a parliament for an instance to decide on it than that the majority decides on the opposition seems to be at hand. By the way, I would like this to happen to parliamentary questions that there is a decision there, as in Germany, organ dispute proceedings. If, for example, Mr Zinggl or Mrs. Mienl-Reisinger always demand that these comical Supervisory Protocols be delivered, we also need this in Austria that not just the Minister decides, I do not or do not deliver, but that there is an organ dispute. That's exactly what the investigation committee has to say. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] President-in-Office of the opposition – by the way, there is no such thing as Germany. In Germany, the government is always presiding over there. No files can be requested. - Oh, great! You know what we got in there? . We have the rule that all the authorities must deliver all the files on all the items of investigation, and that is already in the subject of proof. This goes far beyond what is the case in Germany. And we have the opportunity to set specific requirements for specific things wherever they go. In this case, too, legal protection, where a majority can then be said, is not constitutional, is not covered, decision by the Constitutional Court. Like what else! How can I make an investigation committee where I give the minority the rights and say that they can do everything? They can invite Mr Müller, Mr Hofer, to something if they think it would be possible for them to have 25 percent. Probably the government parties thought if Stronach had developed at the time, 25 percent Lugar, we want a protection, because we want there to be legal protection. Mr Lugar, you have been running there so absurdly, because what is in Austria is going beyond Germany in some areas. Tag Informationsordnung, Tag Conversion of files that come from Ministries. They are not available throughout Europe. Austria is the only country in which Parliament can step down records of ministries and say that we are making them accessible. Our goal was to have all the files. So far, there have been blacks. Now we have the guarantee that files must be delivered and there is legal protection, namely prison sentences for “severe secret” and “secret”, that is, where in Austria, for example, security would be threatened by terrorist attacks. If you go here and put those files in public, then you should get the penalty. In these cases this is provided for, in all other cases not. This law is an extremely good law. It has brought very good solutions. Individual things could have been improved. And it was also a truly historic parliamentary process, with much support from the house, which we would otherwise wish for. I believe that we need a legal and legislative service that allows Parliament, the House itself, to make laws. And without the support of Parliament's management, it would not have been possible in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10450	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10471	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens! The word “historical” has often fallen. It may be a historic step for the Austrian Parliament. A bit of mutual shoulder knocking is appropriate, but we should not exaggerate it, because a committee of inquiry as a minority law is a matter of course in international comparison. I was recently at a parliamentary conference in London, where I had the opportunity to work with the deputy RT Hon. Margaret Hodge. She is the chairman of the Public Account Committee in the British Parliament. This is a kind of budget auditing committee, which should be particularly active in the interests of taxpayers. I asked her how she was dealing with the difficulty of loading information into committees. She didn't understand that question at all. Why didn't she understand her at the first moment? – Because there are no such difficulties in the British Parliament! It is a matter of course here that even for regular committees, not only in the case of investigation committees, information can be invited. A practical example where this doesn't work with us: We had recently to discuss or discuss a report from the Court of Auditors on the ÖVAG. And then what happens in such cases happens. Court of Auditors reports naturally deal with the past. That is why it makes sense to load people who have been responsible in the past. But ÖVP and SPÖ as majority groups prevent this regularly and always want to invite people with responsibility from the present, who, of course, have nothing to say about the past. All right, let's take note of this. If this is not possible in committees in the future, there will also be parliamentary examination committees in these cases. And that is why this is also a prospect of the future. It is also about answering the question, what are we doing with this instrument for the public? And of course we'll start with the Hypo Alpe-Adria. But we will also address all those cases where information is actually prevented or blocked in Parliament's regular committees. We will, of course, devote ourselves to important questions of the system in Austria. I would like to quote the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” on the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria, which establishes the hypo-pile, among other things, with the Austrian felt. She's entitled: “Austrian felt as a humus for the hypo-plies.” Furthermore, according to the “New Zurich Newspaper”, the disaster could accept such dimensions, is a consequence of the political system, in which the separation of violence appears more difficult. Yes, this felt, this partly undemocratic political system, must be broken down. This will make a significant contribution to the forthcoming Committees of Inquiry. And we are looking forward to NEOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10520	I call Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10541	Mr President. High house! You can believe that I am relieved that this law is being passed today. Who likes to sign under a promise that it was very laborious until it finally became reality. We have from the outset expressed the view that it would be very useful if this minority right were really to be used for the establishment of a committee of inquiry with an important role of the minority in the further proceedings of the Committee of Inquiry. And since 2006 – many will remember in the house – we have subsequently set up research committees: Eurofighter, banks, Telekom. And what I was talking about at the time was not just the debate, this difficult debate on the question: Which items of investigation should be dealt with, how many are they, can a committee of inquiry deal with them in the sum at all?, but also those concerning the questions who are being invited to do so and when an investigation is over again. And there's often the thought matured in me: There would have been a great deal of failure to achieve this minority right of the Committee of Inquiry, because it will achieve better balance. And in this model, this balance has indeed succeeded. I have no problem with Germany now or with the Germans. But once we have something that goes beyond the German Bundestag in individual points – Mr Brosz mentioned this as an example before – something that I consider to be very useful and which, so to speak, could be a model for other parliaments, because it is not a standard in the European Parliaments. There are only a few parliaments that have this institution. We're among those few now. And we certainly have something here to do with democratization and Parliament's better weighting. What is more important is that this may almost become a permanent establishment and that, of course, prevention will also be a very crucial factor. From now on, a lot more people have to expect them to come into the house here and simply act as an information person or be present within the framework of an investigation object. And this preventive measure, I believe, will play a non-essential role as a contribution to improving political culture, but also culture in the economy, administration and in other areas. And that is, I also think, one of the elements that are certainly very important. So I'm relieved. I think this is a very important day today. As far as the Griss Commission is concerned, Mr Lopatka has also referred to, I believe that this was a very, very good establishment, which has really created a basis for the work of the committee of inquiry. You have to be very clear about this. The findings of this report were also presented by Dr. Griss on television in a very sympathetic, credible way in multiple appearances – that is, very qualified. And I think it's It is true that, within the framework of this committee of inquiry – we are all aware that it will then come from January – in whatever form it must play an important role. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So there's only more to think about: What is the more efficient role? That may be his trial judge, his permanent information person. I think that's just about asking the question: Where is the best yield for the work of the Committee of Inquiry? But that she has an important role to play here is not a question. And she also has very courageous analyses there. This can then be questioned, and that will certainly play an important role in the work of the Committee of Inquiry. So I believe that we have the opportunity here to regain credibility in the public, as sometimes the judgment is often spoken very quickly, and it is important that we now have an illuminating process in the context of a long, thorough, precise investigation. For Austria and its political culture, but also for the culture of the economy, and in general for our political system, it is very important that this hypo-desaster is really, very thoroughly, thoroughly reflected in the work of this committee of inquiry. I believe that this Commission, which has done its work very carefully here, provides a very, very good basis. Mr Darmann has meant very perspectiveal, perhaps we will still take several joint decisions. We now have the Enquete Commission. We will have to negotiate direct democracy. So I think we're on a very constructive and very good path. And the issue of the establishment of minority law in the Committee of Inquiry is a very essential aspect. And my thanks also go to all those who have contributed here. I was personally relieved when, with the signatures that Karlheinz Kopf and I have made, the promise that this minority right will come to the committee of inquiry has now really been settled. We are very, very happy about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10620	Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10642	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the second reading of the reform of the Committee of Inquiry, which has been negotiated for months. Now there's a five-party union. We of the ÖVP have always said yes to minority law. However, we have also said yes to a revision of the Rules of Procedure and to an objective, objective procedure within the Committee of Inquiry. We agreed from the outset that investigation committees should no longer be as they were in the past. It is about clarifying political responsibility and not about pre-condemning people. It is about the rule of law instead of the political show and about material information instead of a tribunal. I would like to sum up briefly five points which were very important to us by the People's Party: The objective Presidency shall be held by the National Council. Dentin, you should be put to the side of a trial judge – a legal person with a lot of experience in this field. Second point: We do not want any more herb-and-roat committees, but rather a clear definition of the subject-matter of the investigation. The third point is a clear distinction between the times of the Committee of Inquiry and pre-election periods. 124 days before the election date, the final survey shall take place. Most important points are the rights of the information subjects, the initial question by the court of procedure, special protection of the media – we all know how this happened in the past – and more competence for the lawyer who, of course, stands before and during the survey. If personal rights are violated, you can also contact the Constitutional Court in the future. The last point, ladies and gentlemen – and I would like to explain it a little further – is dealing with confidential documents. This is also clearly regulated in the light of the quoted German Judicature. The five-party agreement of the 10th century, particularly in the core area of executive own responsibility. In July 2014, it was noted that evidence on the subject of the subject-matter of the investigation should only be provided, provided that the legal form of will of the Federal Government and its individual members or their immediate preparation is not affected. As has been said, it was specifically referred to the German Judicature as an executive self-responsibility, which is even reflected in some national constitutions or laws. This agreement will now be taken almost identically into account both in the Federal Constitutional Act and in Sections 24 and 25 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation Committees. It is important for us to ensure the necessary protection for these files. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important package of measures for the further development of parliamentarianism in our House. I would like to thank all those who have contributed. In addition to the five club members, I would like to thank Mr Pendl, Mr Darmann, Mr Brosz and Mr Scherak and Mr Meinl-Reisinger for the NEOS. I think this is really a good place to work and now there's a good law package. My final request is that what has now been put to paper, even in January, when the first committee of inquiry starts, we find in practice the way we have discussed it here. This is my request as a representative, which will at least carry this package of laws with full support.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10706	Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone is right, these are successes of all of us in common, of course these are also successes of the individual parties, and that everyone celebrates in its own way is quite fine. Of course, the ÖVP has also enforced a lot, and most of it was reasonable in my opinion. This also applies to the SPÖ, the Freedom Party and the NEOS. The fact that the Stronach team has not yet fully discovered the subject and therefore has not understood it is something that has already happened in Parliament once and which I do not think is worth any greater discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The second is: Mr Lopatka is right, the first investigative committee will be the Hypo-Research Committee, in which we all agreed, and we are already preparing for it. As we all know – and I am right in giving Lopatka again – the Hypo-Research Committee will be a test for the new regulation of the Investigation Committee. I hope that the government parties will not force the opposition to continue proceedings at the Constitutional Court. I hope that, in this case, Werner Kogler and many others, who will examine this together, will agree on it from the outset, all of us together, just as we have prepared this law, that a maximum of information should be made possible with the support of the government parties and not against them. It will be important for all of us – personally, it is very important to me – to maintain the trial of the hypo-examination committee as a parliament and to show that we as Parliament can do this together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] I would also like to say to you that we, as the Green Group, are at least faced with this: As Parliament, we have now proved that we want to take parliamentary control more seriously than in the past and strengthen it as one of our three main tasks – in addition to legislation and the federal budget. Parliament itself decides – this is another signal. You know for yourself that Werner Faymann did not sit in the Federal Chancellor's Office and died from enthusiasm and said: At last, minority law! It was more of a reverse. Michael Spindelegger didn't break out in enthusiasm storms either, but said: If it has to be! The signals have also come from Parliament within the government parties. This was also a sign in the government camp that Parliament is more self-confident. Today in the evening we will say – this is a little thing – together again: If the government does not, then we all jointly regulate the history of rocket terrorism in the Austrian football stadiums. Parliament becomes active in protecting families in the football stadium. And if we do all of this, I ask: Why do we not benefit from the new self-confidence of this House and use it in the educational reform if the government brings much too little together on key issues of this Republic and continues to block two government parties from each other? If we had a secret vote here in the house, I believe we would have a large majority in favour of a reasonable education reform, as it exists in the Austrian population. The same applies also to other reforms, to red tape, to a transparent administration, to the complete abolition of official secrecy, and, and, This is my proposal: Let us see this as a starting point, a successful start for a new Parliament. We'd have won a lot with that. We need a strong Parliament to jump into a break if the government can give people far too little hope for the future. Then there can be some from Parliament, and we can show how valuable an independent and self-confident Parliament can be not only in the very, very important parliamentary control, but also in the legislation – and thus in the design of politics. This could be one of the lessons learned from these successful negotiations. That's why my appeal again: Let's try it together at the Hypo Committee. We are trying to represent unnecessary special interests – not only for the government parties – and together we are trying in large areas of Austrian politics, where the reforms are systematically blocked, whether we are not able to do so in parliamentary terms. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Lopatka, at the end of the day, just a small statement on the subject, also in the direction of the Hypo Committee: I give you the following point: We can build on some of the results of the Griss Commission, and there are some well-founded conclusions that can be a good start for the Committee of Inquiry in sub-areas, but the Committee of Inquiry also has to answer questions that have been left open by the Griss Commission in a strange way. [[Abg. Lopatka: Conspiracy theories!]] I'll just give you one example: On the question of Armin Wolf – and this is very important for the new investigative committee – in the “ZIB 2” the argument of Dr. Griss has been voiced – that is why the Spindelegger decision of March 2014, an institution solution instead of insolvency, has not been examined: We're investigating until the order is awarded. Now I'm literally quoting: We're investigating until the order is awarded. – Ms. Dr. Griss in ZIB 2. ==References====External links== The Minister of Finance Spindelegger was granted in March 2014 at the request of Minister of Finance Spindelegger. Eleven days before that, the same Minister of Finance presented to the public the political decision to choose the establishment solution rather than insolvency. That is, if this is to be taken literally, then the Griss Commission has understood its own mission in such a way that it would have had to examine the question of an institution solution or insolvency. At least in one case, it would have examined the operations and decisions of a minister of finance still in office – and not exclusively the former Minister of Finance. I think it is very unfortunate – I am not asking why – that the Griss Commission has not done any preparatory work for reasons which I do not know and has not been able to examine the responsibility of an existing Finance Minister. This is now a mission to the Investigation Committee. And this is just as a task to the Committee of Inquiry, as to ask the question of the interests behind it: Why has always been decided on behalf of the banks, by Raiffeisen, and always against taxpayers? I believe the conclusion of the Griss Commission is that all of this is due to the laziness, cowardice and shortsightedness of politics. I believe that there have been interests represented. Since the Griss Commission has not examined these interests, it is so important that we now have the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. A committee of inquiry here in Parliament on Hypo Alpe-Adria, set up on the basis of a minority law, will, I am sure, take into account no decision, no interest, and whether it is Raiffeisen. I am also very glad that we are coming to this decision together today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10788	Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10809	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Mr Lugar, I think it is a bit bizarre that you, as the smallest opposition party, are blaming us here that this agreement has now come to be reached. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] We have always said that we have been disappointed or disappointed in the last few days, as we have not been taken away on some of the days. We have expressed this, and I think we have achieved a really good result, and we always want to be constructive. That's it. Now you're in the smelt corner, we can't really do anything for that! [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] The central work of the opposition is the control of the government. Today, we will also hold a short debate on the Burgtheater, which – and the Murmeltier greets every day – shows that the opposition in their work is naturally set limits, for example in the case of the right of interconnection, when it comes to how far it is enough. The fact is that we today, as the most important instrument of government control, can identify the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law is very important. This instrument is absolutely necessary to show maladministration in the administration. On the one hand, Neos is concerned with the fact that there is as much scientific information as possible, namely political responsibility. “Possibly objective” means that – and we are glad about this – there are now rules that the investigation committee, for example, does not become a tribunal, as Mr Pendl correctly said, and that there are rules on which files are secret, strictly secret – that is, I believe, very important – and that slander is excluded from the protection of immunity. That, I think, has something to do with the honesty of politics, and that is very, very important to us. The fact that the signed has been complied with has been pointed out by Klubobfrau Glavischnig. You can forgive me now that I would point out that there is also a signature in Vienna, which would be respected, namely with regard to a reform of the right to vote. [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The second point concerns political responsibility. Political responsibility does not mean legal responsibility, neither criminal law nor civil law – that is a question of the courts. Political responsibility means that we will clarify in the committee of inquiry, which will come to the hypo, who will actually have to take responsibility for dilettantism, the abuses, the removal of decisions et cetera. But the crucial question is – and this is very essential, I believe, for the culture in this House and also for the culture of the committee of inquiry: Is there, in fact, a culture of responsibility? What happens because of the results of this Committee of Inquiry? – As long as we do not have a culture of responsibility in this country, and as long as we still have government members who are obviously responsible for parts of this hypo-desaster, do not even think about perhaps relinquishing – as long as we do not have a culture of responsibility – for as long as the public’s reputation, for example, will not be silent after a political liability that is not possible. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] I can understand this very well. Therefore, my appeal because you have appealed to the responsibility of the opposition: Yes, we see this responsibility, but there is also a responsibility that the government parties have to assume here in terms of a stronger culture of responsibility in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10874	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the Constitutional Court Act, the Criminal Code and other laws, including title and entry into 439 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is largely adopted. In turn, I expressly define the constitutionally required two-thirds majority and underline once again, and the draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, together with the title and receipt in 440 of the Supplements. The present draft law may be amended in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided only on the presence of at least half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore first of all note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft law may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and adopting a Federal Law on the Information Order of the National Council and the Federal Council, including title and receipt in 441 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law includes, among other things, an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act, I am putting it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is largely accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[12:20:48]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (365d.b._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Caring Act (414 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 636/A(E) by Dr Kathrin Nachbaur, colleagues on the introduction of statutory care insurance (415 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 775/A(E) by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues in relation to study on the situation of caregivers (416 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11031	We shall now proceed to points 4 to 6 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11059	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! During this season, various judges sometimes deal with the question of what the unword of the year is. – You can like it more or less. I suggest that we draw attention to other aspects and perhaps also deal with the acts of the year, and then we come to the subject on which we are talking today on the subject of care money. I would like to make it equal to Mr Lopatka and also quote from the Holy Scriptures, John this time: By their deeds you shall know them. . Let us now take this as a measure if we want to assess what it is all about when it comes to care money. The SPÖ is the party which, on every possible and impossible opportunity, uses itself to be the incarnate justice in this country. But what this Federal Government is responsible for under SPÖ's responsibility today, on the day of the Human rights, in connection with the money for care provided to this House and what the SPÖ and ÖVP Members will decide, do you know how I call it so that we can get the matter to the point? – I call this the social policy scandal of the year 2014, and you can’t speak of this disgrace either. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If you launch this law today, as you have already done in the Committee, you delete thousands of people who have access to the care allowance in Stages 1 and 2 according to the current rules every year with the deadline 1. January 2015 exactly this access, that is, you lock them out, you take away what they would be entitled to. And why are you doing that? – Because They're supposed to have no money, or as it always does, down from the high Ross, because you can't afford it. Mr Wöginger, for both of us this is not a problem, but for many people in this country it is a question of survival. You take it away from the poorest of the poor, you take it away from those who can't defend themselves. And what are the amounts of money we are talking about today, given the debate we have held a few hours ago, in which we have talked about billions that the Republic has shed out on the window by means of a red and black sluice in connection with the emergency nationalization?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What amounts are we talking about that we can't afford? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We're talking about 154,20 €, that's the first step in a month. 154,20 € They are not available to people who need care and are currently classified in such a way that they have care claim in Stage 1. That's how it looks! You should, above all on the sides of the SPÖ, because you have also managed to generate in soil and soil, instead of just deliberately trying to do so in any form. You should ask yourself how this is the case with the population when you are talking about the millionaire tax and the burden on the super-rich and now, for the second time after 2011, you are actually introducing a poverty tax with a reduction in the care allowance. You just talk about one thing and the other you do, because there is no longer even any rest of credibility in social democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't have this 154,20 €, but I can remind you that you have been from the SPÖ together with the ÖVP who took care of quite different protective staff in this House a few months ago, of course from your area, by extending the luxury pensions. There you had the money, as now the new ceiling of just under €9 000 for additional pensions – after great, €9 000 additional board, in addition to ASVG-pensions! We have that, but the 154,20 €, we don't have it. You should be ashamed, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You do not have a lack, namely a lack of empty promises, which you really do not have on the part of social democracy, and that is the interesting one in your core competences. You have to look at how these things come to be. Before the election you have approached the Austrians and submitted 111 projects to them for the election decision. The entire cerebral malt of social democracy has been incorporated into these 111 projects. 111 times justice, all that you always propagate – then let's look at how it sounds and what's left of it! I can remind you of the SPÖ project number 52, which is about, I quote, “human care”. Is that implemented now if you're 1. January 2015 6,000 Men- Is it possible for you to refuse access to the care allowance in Stages 1 and 2 year after year, while you do not throw the money out of the window elsewhere? Is this the “human care” you are talking about when the care money has lost a third of value since its introduction, over 30 percent? And that's how it goes. For reading for the comrades, Project No. 19: “Work and just wages for all”. Is it what is implemented by this mass unemployment, in which you look helplessly and operate a maximum of somewhere flickwerk instead of systematically using it, or is it implemented by the real wage losses that have existed for ten years, especially in the area of lower and middle incomes? Is the “work and just wages for all, ” including the income difference between men and women? Yeah, it almost looks like it was! And last but not least, I can remind you of the completeness of project number 49, of the secure purchasing power of pensions. Is this the guaranteed purchasing power of pensions, if you have been doing nothing but permanently devalue the pensions for years, and anyone who is a bit above the minimum pension asks why he has paid higher contributions if he is constantly less aware of the so-called increase? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] Is this the secure purchasing power of pensions, ladies and gentlemen? – I hope not if you still take yourself quite seriously! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Three times socialist core areas, three times a total failure – and do you know what the problem is?- Oh, my God! – For many people affected, and that is why I mentioned these three points, everything comes together. This is true, for example, of many minimum pensioners who are not now receiving this level of care 1 and 2. For you and for me, these 154 € are not possible, but for these people they are a substantial part of their lifestyle, and it is a crucial difference for them to have or not to have. I can't imagine having a good conscience as a social democracy here and saying that we are the representatives of justice, if we give this law today's approval. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. I have already seen many comments, but I have never experienced anything like that in connection with the law enforcement in this case. The Who’s who’s who of all social institutions in this country, no matter if the Red Cross, the People’s Aid, firmly in red hand, the auxiliary work, firmly in black hand, the disabled lawyer Comrade Buchinger or Volksanstalt Comrade Herbs, the Workers’ Chamber or the Disabled Association, it doesn’t matter who you are taking, all say that this work is unfair and unsocial. And you have not changed anything about it in the so-called review procedure! They did not draw a poison tooth from this draft, but it remained all the way it is. And all these institutions are right, just as we have freedom of movement: You save in the wrong place, you are socially unfair, and you produce seeing eyes expensive follow-up costs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we told you what to do. They would have to get over to see health and care as a big whole and not to record two parallel things for all eternity. That's one of your problems. I can only give you one example: With the money needed to finance a hospital bed for three to four days, you could already pay a person this care money. You are not willing to lift these synergies because they are different areas and because that has always been the case and you will not bring it together either. But there's the money, there's Mil- Liabilities! There you would have much more money at your disposal and would not have to steal the poorest of the poor their care money from Stage 1 and Stage 2, as you will do with today's law decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11204	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11225	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would particularly like to welcome the group of visitors of my colleague Daniela Holzinger from the Vöcklabruck district! Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to talk about the care money novelle, and at the beginning I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the goal of social democracy is of course – I would like to say it now, Mr Kickl – our good care system, and there is not only the care allowance, but also a number of other measures to maintain it in a truly needs- and needs-oriented state, so that all people who need care and support in Austria when they are in need of care will continue to receive it in the future. [[Abg. Schwentner: But that's not true!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Less and less!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The only difference in need is the date!]] That is the stated objective of social democracy, and this also includes looking responsibly at the financialability and constantly checking the system to ensure that the objective we have, namely to create needs and needs-oriented offers, can actually be pursued. That's why it's also important that you keep looking where you can improve and change something. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look back a little bit because Mr Kickl has already drawn a scenario that many thousands of people or even the care money system would be in danger next year. It's not like that. In the future, many people will continue to get into the care money system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But much less!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Up to 6,000 less!]] In 2015, some 65 000 people will also be re-entered into our care system. And you know that too, Mr Kickl: We have 455 284 people in Austria in Austria with the deadline at the end of September 2014. These are, valued listeners, 5.35% of all people living in Austria. The entire care money system financed by the federal government now comprises €3 billion. So if someone turns to the speaker's desk and says there's nothing going on in the field of care money, I really want to reject it, because it's just not like that. [[Abg. Schwentner: It is thought too little sustainable!]] Mr Kickl, you also know that there has been a right to care benefits since 1993 when the aid has been transferred to the care allowance system. That is, every person in need of care has a right to care money. I would also like to stress this: It does not concern social need, it is not that only socially weak people receive care money, but it depends on the need for care. [[Abg. Kickl: Of course, but who needs it?]] It's a different system. Nor is it intended, Mr Kickl, to fight poverty with the care money, but it is intended that people in need of care can be given a grant for the necessary benefits; a flat-rate grant that will enable them to live a more self-determined life. This is the meaning of the care allowance and not the fight against poverty. This should perhaps be mentioned in the debate sometime, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Unfortunately, you don't fight poverty with your wage policy and your pension policy!]] I would also like to say, and this has not yet been discussed today, that today's novelle will also increase the care allowance for all people by 2% from 2016 onwards. Of course, you can wish for more and more, but all care providers will receive by 2 percent more from 2016, no matter at which level of care people are classified. I would also like to clear out a misunderstanding that has always existed in the pre-debate, namely that disabled people are particularly affected by it. That's just not right. We all know that when disabled people are severely handicapped when they are wheelchair drivers or wheelchair drivers, they are automatically classified into level 3, of which often they are also in levels 4 or 5. Under Federal Minister Hundstorfer in 2009, the introduction of the difficulty allowance was: People or children and adolescents from 0 to 15 years of age receive special relief allowances if they prove that they are in need of care. There are also higher hourly rates to be charged, so that this group of persons will not be affected, in particular, to stop entering Stage 1 or 2, as you have said. All in all, I am convinced that with Federal Minister Hundstorfer, a man leads the Social Ministry, which is well aware that a number of measures have to be taken in the field of care. Therefore, there is the care fund, by which one tries to create stationary and part-stationary offers in the federal states, in the municipalities. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, money alone does not take care of, you also need people who care for it. That is why it is a package that needs to be looked at, and I am convinced that the measures taken today will lead to us being able to maintain the care system well in the next few years, because we all know that demographic development is leading us to think about how we can guarantee care in the next few years as we know it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11380	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11401	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! I would like to start with something positive, as sad as this story is, as was not explained by my previous speaker, but by my predecessor. Let us remember that we are living in a society where people are getting older and older. That's something beautiful. It is nice that many people in Austria are now growing very, very old, and in the phase in which they are very old, they should and must be cared for, because we have the responsibility for that. We have the responsibility to ensure that these people, when they are in need of care, are properly cared for and can spend an age in dignity. – This is once the prerequisite. What I miss in this context, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, and so far I am already a bit disappointed – “a bit disappointed” is good, very disappointed – not only by you, but by the SPÖ as a whole: It's going to be in here. in line not because we consider together what concept we are developing in order to ensure that people in this country of old age are good, that people in this country are well cared for and can be cared for accordingly – from part-mobile care to mobile care to home, but also at home – but it is only about – they mentioned it – that 2016 is valorized – yes, that is nice for all those who get a little more in 2016 – but basically you save until then this money that is then paid out in 2016. So, that's a little bit of a financial trick being carried out there, and not anymore – unfortunately! On the other hand, it is also a money redeployment story, in relation to the 24-hour care. You, Mr Minister, have said in the committee itself – and a question from us has put it black on it – basically it has to be saved because on the other hand the money is missing in the 24-hour care. More and more people in Austria want to be cared for at home, which is understandable, want to stay at home as long as it goes, in the place that is familiar to them, where they feel comfortable where relatives are, relatives who care for them. Therefore, the 24-hour care is often used, and that is very, very expensive, as we all know. We all know that the 24-hour care is basically due to an emergency solution. We remember that in the era bowl was almost the occasion to legalize and legitimize a story very quickly, and that has actually remained an emergency solution since then, but has become a permanent state. And it can't be that this permanent state is at the expense of the majority. Only 8 per cent of care providers also receive funding for the financing of the 24-hour care, all others are mostly cared for in the home or free of charge from family members at home. I would also like to point this out. We have tabled a request that we hope for at least one study. Unfortunately, you have rejected a study on this – the last one in 2005, which is more than ten years ago – which they need in view of the circumstances under which they are caring for at home, but it has changed a lot since, since 2005, very, very much. We have the care care care, the care part-time, and we would have liked to evaluate what that looks like. Unfortunately, you have not supported this study. On the contrary! They promote a system by increasing monthly hourly values and making it more difficult to access care levels 1 and 2, in which even more people – especially daughters, daughters-in-law, the women of this country – are required to care for their families. And that's certainly not something we support. It is also argued that there is a lack of benefits in kind used in stages 1 and 2. I would just like to say that you expect it to be: For a person who receives 154 € care money per month, this would be converted at 65 hours 2.30 € per hour. Now tell me where you get someone – except perhaps somewhere on the black market – who works for €2.30 per hour. This means that the care allowance of these care levels is used for other needs. People need it very well; not only because these people are at risk of poverty, as we have heard, but also for many other reasons. They are family members of these people at home who support them, and they really depend on this 154 € in this low care level. I really think it is a scandal if concepts are not presented on the other hand, how it is guaranteed that this care system will continue to be guaranteed in the coming years and decades that people in our country will be well if they are to be cared for. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's your chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11483	The request just read is sufficiently supported, properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11541	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11562	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to make some clarifications in this area and to examine once the existing general situation in care in Austria. There are currently about 455,000 care providers, which is about 5.3 percent of the total population. Ladies and gentlemen, this is twice as high as the Federal Republic of Germany. That is, if you talk about something being taken away from here, that this is a bad system as a whole, then I strongly reject it. I'd say, Austria is the world's care champion with a very good system for our needy people. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, exactly!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You have to make it clear – thank you here especially those who take care of and care at home – that around 80 percent of caregivers are cared for and cared for at home. Thank you, first and foremost, to the caring family members, but also to the employees in the various institutions and institutions, for there are thousands of people, ladies and gentlemen, who are doing this most strenuous and sacrificing activity every day and who pursue this profession. I thank all those who do so every day, because this is very important for our people and for the people who need this support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to the law: It's going to be silent here, what's still going on. It is said that we are making changes at Stages 1 and 2. Yes, Mrs. Colleague, I will explain to you in a moment, you look so disillusioned. [[in the direction of the Abg. Schimanek]] You need to know the bill as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] It will be slightly changed in the field of future care allowances, so for the 455,000 people who are now in the seven stages, nothing will change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You already said that in 2010!]] [[Abg. Kickl: 2011 was exactly it!]] For future care providers of Stages 1 and 2, we change the amount of time needed to receive a care allowance in Stages 1 and 2, from 60 to 65 hours and from 85 to 95 hours at Stage 2. This is acceptable from our point of view if we want to secure the overall package in the future and maintain it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwent-ner.]] What you're not saying is that the law also says that the care money is 1st. January 2016 will increase by 2 percent. [[Abg. Kickl: At 33 percent value loss! To bravo!]] – This did not happen to you, Mr. Kickl, that this federal government and the government groups also agree that the care allowance for all care providers will be increased by 2% at all stages. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: 33 percent loss of value!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] This is both an important and a necessary measure. But that is to say, and that is reasonable. Do you know what is not reasonable, Mr. Kickl? – The request you seem to make: ‘Introduction of a minimum wage of €1,600, annual adjustment of the care allowance and the allowance for disabled people, minimum pension of €1,200 and pension adjustment in the amount of the pensioner price index’. Can I tell you something? – This package does not cost you €10 billion. Where to Take From Is that what you're talking about? – That’s certainly true, that’s populism pure if applications are submitted here to an amount of €10 billion without financial coverage and are not promised how this is to be financed. This is not responsible to the Austrian population! Stop in this area with this populism cult! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, the provision of information and advice for care providers and their families will be extended, and support applications will be simplified in the area of 24-hour care. Ladies and gentlemen, this is important to us, because the 24-hour care has been more than proven and is generally an important tool in the care sector. It is my concern to hold here very briefly the following: We have introduced the Care Money Reform Act 2012. The report, which was also discussed in the Committee, clearly states that a very good administrative reform has been carried out here, from 303 to 5 jobs, and the entire national health care sector has been co-ordinated. The care fund has been installed, care fund extension by 2018, for this there is an additional €300 million, and these funds also go to the countries and communities that have local responsibility for the care work. That must be mentioned, and we stand for that. The social assistance associations, the care associations do very good work. The mayors know what people need in the care sector and what measures are needed here. Therefore, the care fund is a very good facility. For the caregivers, the state takes over pension insurance from stage 3 to 50 percent, from stage 4 to stage 4. There is also family hospice, care care and care part-time. Overall, care in Austria is on very good legs. This package is a coordinated package, on the one hand, with the changes in Stages 1 and 2, on the other hand, with the valorization and relief also in the area of 24-hour care. We have a good system, and that will be there in the future. Austria is also well placed in this area in comparison with other countries and in my view the number one in the care. And that's what we'll be in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11700	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11724	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is no doubt that the care money is one of the biggest achievements in the social field. It was important to introduce that those persons who are to be cared for can keep their self-esteem, act self-determined and can also act independently. It was certainly a very, very good establishment when it was introduced in 1993. What's happened since then? – According to the Central Statistical Office, there has been a 33 percent loss in care fees since 1993. That is, the care money from then on, with which you could move, is no longer worth what it was then. Minister Hundstorfer has already mentioned the fact that the care allowance was not deliberately increased, but a care fund was set up. This, on the one hand, leads to the fact that the people in need of care are not able to determine themselves and, on the other hand, small communities are burdened with social expenditure so much that there are many communities of departure, i.e. that the citizens are paying again the taxpayers. The investment in care levels 1 and 2 is very, very important, and it is absolutely the wrong way to make it difficult to access these levels. Of the original 50 hours of care needs you are now at 65 hours, in ten years perhaps at 75 hours. Access is becoming increasingly difficult. But what does that mean for the individual? – Someone who needs 60 hours of care needs two hours a day a person who helps him: someone who helps him out of bed who helps him to wash, who attracts him who builds the medications that provide the wounds and much more. If one interrupts this chain because one does not want to afford it or because the government does not want to afford it, the logical conclusion can only be that the people who are not properly cared for in the care level 1 and 2 will move faster into level 3, 4, 5 and so on. This means that the system as a whole will be expensive unless it is tried to maintain Stages 1 and 2 as long as possible. Valorization 2016: Ladies and gentlemen! Stages 1 and 2 pay the Valorization of Stages 3 to 7. It can't be! This is absolutely wrong access from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On average, care costs 22 € per hour in Austria. This is almost unfinanceable now when someone is alone, is a minimum pensioner or has no social environment. Minister, I ask you: How is such a person to get out without financial support? - I'm interested. I have no answer, but I'm already excited about what you're going to tell me about it. Our way is, as we have said, to support, strengthen and promote people in the care stages 1 and 2 as long as possible, to maintain their independence and self-determination and to find a system that clearly defines what the money is used for in the care, where the money comes from, where it goes in the medium and long term. We are in favour of a state care insurance scheme, for clear, transparent ways of money, because only this will make financial viability possible in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11778	Mr Hechtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11799	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few words about TOP 6, in which Mrs Schwentner from the Greens is calling for a study on the situation of caring relatives. You know very well – and this also shows the report – that several studies have already been carried out. [[Abg. Schwentner: The last one was released in 2005!]] In our opinion, not the study is crucial, but the findings from such studies and their implementation – apart from that, such a study costs €100 000 – and I think that has been very, very well done by our Federal Minister so far in the field of care. On item 5, in which Mrs. Dietrich from the Stronach team calls for the introduction of a statutory care insurance scheme, it is clear to us that the SPÖ is a solidary instrument, with each one having the same claim and that the costs are to be borne in solidarity over the tax performance. This reform of care funds, which is now under discussion, clearly shows how much we pay attention to care and how much we appreciate it. [[Abg. Schwentner: Exactly!]] Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has succeeded in increasing the care allowance from 2016 under very difficult financial conditions. The increase in care fees by 2 per cent – because the percentage may not mean too much – means a total of € 50 million per year. If you do not agree with the liberals here, this means, in the reverse, that you are actually against this increase. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What an increase!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The increase is €50 million, and what the federal government produces annually amounts to about €3 billion, and that has already been said. [[Abg. Kickl: Hat playing is that!]] This increase of 50 million is directly due to the need for care. There is no branching, but it can be found directly in the bag – if you can say so – of the affected persons. I believe, Mr Federal Minister, that with this increase, with these additional 50 million, I would like to stress, you have achieved an essential step towards securing and financing the care money, and I wish you a great deal of success.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11874	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11895	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Wöginger said: We're world champions. – Yes, we are world champions in the federalist unstructured spending of money in the care sector. There's a lot of money! Appreciated visitors to the gallery and valued viewers in front of the TV screens, especially when you come from organizations or if you yourself are in charge! As many statements as this law have hardly ever reached us since I was in the National Council. Many emotions have been transported and very much concern has been expressed. NGOs, family members, citizens and citizens have reported that this law should not be passed. That's where you're wondering: Where does this disorder come from in so many people and their caregivers? You are selling a double-percent increase here from 2016 and are hiding people that you are financing it by making it difficult for you to access Stages 1 and 2. In total, this simply reduces the dynamics of the cost block. This may be necessary, but it will be silent and not honestly transported to the people. [[Abg. Wöginger: I said that!]] People feel that this is not a matter of policy, but that the Ministry of Social Affairs is clearly called on to present quick and direct savings. This will lead to such a policy that is the adhesive of patch instead of a focus on long-term, single-fit solutions. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Schwentner.]] Federal Minister! We have talked to organisations that have also been talking to you and who have told us about uncertainties and uncertainties, which mean the new regulations for the future, especially where people with disabilities are concerned. There are obviously many questions left open. What I think is too short in the discussion is the question of the caregivers who are relieved of such care money in the low levels. This is essentially true of women who provide such care. These are not only burdened with care, but therefore work in part-time or not at all, have a multiple burden and that often also in a situation of which they themselves know that they will not later have caring relatives who care for them. This will be left completely outside. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Schwentner.]] Overall, this criticism deals with the following: Apart from the ambiguity that has already been mentioned, as is supposed to be the case with undisputed diagnosis, Austria is facing a dramatic increase in the number of high-level people. Despite the introduction of the care fund, which relieves the social budget of countries and communities, experts consider this development to be very critical. We lack funding models here, we lack concepts here. There are criticisms from the Court of Auditors which have still not been taken up. International examples could serve as guidance, such as the conversion of cots into transitional cots, or how pilot projects could be worked on in the framework of Primary Health Care. There is so much to do, but this is a torn-off piece of staples and not a reform to which a future system can be properly attached.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11947	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on the issue of an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to try to fix a few things and have to repeat a few things again, I think. Mr Loacker, I do not know whether you are not even going through the area with open eyes in Vorarlberg, because what you have now mentioned continues to happen in Vorarlberg. Especially in Vorarlberg there are very pronounced model regions, model centers, where all this happens. I can't understand it and I don't want to evaluate it now. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country where 5.2 per cent of the population receive care money, where 20 per cent of the over 60-year-olds receive care money. The next country, where always very popular is the Federal Republic of Germany: There are 10 percent of the over 60-year-olds. I think you should not misrepresent the system, but just the way it is. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On average, 20 percent of the so-called 60-year-olds – I am already over 60, I have to be careful, I feel far away from old – have 20 percent of over 60-year-olds in this country. The top rider is the Styria for many reasons, and the rest of Austria is somehow spreading. The federal state, which has the least care money, is Tyrol. This is just a small statistical objection. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Of these 450 000, 20,000 are in the 24-hour care. These 20,000 are available; Trend rising, not into the shoreless, but rising. This is also related to the housing situation and, and, and. 70 000 of these 450 000 are in stationary facilities and the rest are at home. Mr Kickl! If you make yourself here and explain that each compensation beneficiary is automatically care payers... [[Abg. Kickl: I didn't say that!]] You said that! Listen, what... [[Abg. Kickl: No, I didn't!]] You should listen to your own words a little better because you have spoken of the poorest of the poor. [[Abg. Kickl: Do less text messages and listen more!]] You know very well that we have a system in the care money, where there is no question at all: Who are you? It is not asked at all: Who are you? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Now come again the luxurypensionists!]] No, they're not coming at all. The only question we ask is: What's your care effort, how many hours? - After that, we ask. [[Abg. Kickl: The second question you should ask is: Do you need more?]] That is the only question we ask. - That's one point. Point two is also quite clear. But you know that just as well as I do that the border of the luxury pensionists, the ASVG, you quoted, no longer comes, because those you call there have no ASVG-pension. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... get the care money, which can be meated!]] I would, however, like to come back on the subject. Our approach is as follows: We're damping access, yeah. There are about 6,000 people: Instead of 71 000, there will be 65 000. However, we will continue to spend more money. Why will we continue to spend more money? – Because in the meantime we have developed a system that is far from what happened in 1994. Among other things, for 8,400 caring relatives, we spend this year the “littleness” of € 41 million – because we do not care about the caring relatives! It is €41 million that we spend for caregivers, because we caregivers, as far as they are still in working age, of course social insurance, pension insurance, health insurance and so on; by the way, with the same basis of assessment as for child rearing. - That's point one. Secondly, we have also developed the care care care care care; the care care care care care is now in the twelfth month, it is around 600 people. What has not really developed is the care part-time; it is more or less an absolute minority programme. Of course, we leave her alive, she remains upright, because maybe she's still coming. But at the moment, this is really an offer that almost nobody uses. But what we also have is: Of course we also take care of caring family members! Again, it doesn't matter who you are, whether you are an older caregiver or an even more active caretaker. I am speaking here of the so-called holiday activity, and for this holiday activity there is at least the “littleness” of € 11 million; so much will we have spent this year at the end of the year before. That's, I think, not so much. It is at least €11 million for the so-called holiday activity so that caregivers can relax for some time, which is very necessary so that they have the opportunity to relax once. I have already said this to you in committee: For the 140 000 opinions to be drawn up each year only for the care allowance, we spend the amount of € 26 million. The 140 000 opinions will be no less, the trend is rising, because only for those who wander through the system are 70 000 opinions per year. In total, when you calculate everything together, the federal government spends €2.9 billion here. Then the €1.5 billion of the countries, cities and communities will be added. That means the public hand is here at 4.3 billion, I think, not so badly on the road. As you have also mentioned the subject of disabled people: This is, of course, a subject where we have very intensively talked with the organisations and have developed solutions very intensively with the organisations. The mass of people with disabilities is not affected at all, because the mass is automatically in the care level 3, 4 or 5 due to their disability – as tragic as their disability is. They don't come in 1 or 2, because they unfortunately have such a disability that they automatically come into 3, 4 or 5. This is an automation, which is good, it will not be attacked and will not be a topic at all for the future. We had a theme with the group of so-called learning disabled people. This is, among other things, a group that is very intensively cared for by the aid and also by some other organizations. But here we have achieved a clarification of the current legal situation with this group. This clarification, which is made in a circular letter to all five carriers, makes it clear that there will be a special consideration in the so-called learning weaknesses, just as it already corresponds to today's legislation. This is discussed and discussed with the organisations concerned. Of course, we will continue the care money. You know that next year we'll increase the care fund. The idea of the care fund is twofold: One is to support the cities and communities in providing their services, but at the same time to support the cities and communities, so that they can further develop innovative projects accordingly, because we have different standards from the past. Unfortunately, what has developed here over the last 20, 30 years has evolved differently. We have had relatively few mobile services in the Styria five or six years ago, we have had relatively many stationary facilities in this state. We have had federal states that have driven a healthy mix from home, and federal states that have only referred to one, two more projects and have not responded so quickly to other developments. All of this is on the way with the care fund to develop throughout Austria. That is, part of the money is available for innovation, for caring living and, and, for everything there is. And another part of the money is used to finance, to secure what is the current effort. Mrs Ing. Dietrich, we don't leave anyone alone! Social assistance is available, no question at all. Social assistance comes in if it is necessary accordingly. Of course, we have a lot of inputs to care level 3, which is practically the key. But even without this claim, there are services that can be obtained in almost all the federal states. Of course, under a certain cost participation, it is also possible to get things for people even if they do not receive any care money at all. That is, I admit, always a question of the corresponding cost participation. Otherwise, however, at the moment when you are getting and buying care money, the social assistance is available to provide support here. I know that the whole thing is not very pleasing, no question at all. But it is in the responsibility we have towards this country to look at how we can spend a little less in an overall connex, where we continue to spend more money each year. This is all because I have a responsibility. [[Abg. Kickl: “Something less ”!]] I have a responsibility to people on the one hand, I have a responsibility towards the department and also a responsibility to the budget. [[Abg. Kickl: But you already explained that in 2011!]] I do not want you to tell people something about ease, Mr Kickl: Look, everyone gets so much and so much minimum pension! - You don't say who pays it anymore. [[Abg. Kickl: I can tell you something!]] Everyone gets so much and so much minimum content – you don't say who pays it anymore because you know very well that you can never finance your promises. You know that very well! [[Abg. Kickl: Don't read your own programs?]] You know very well that, among other things, you can never finance the 9 billion that only this minimum pension issue costs! You know that very well. I'm going another way. I'm going the unpleasant way to tell people the truth and tell them: There or there we have to dampen! We will continue to spend more money, we will continue to develop measures! For example, you cannot wait for the inspection visit in the future, you are visited by chance in the system, but tell us yourself, if you have the subject that a check visit is necessary here, and we are coming! We are developing such things further because I am willing not to prefer something to man, but to tell people the truth. This is the crucial difference between us. I would like to thank all those who agree with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12156	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12178	Mr President. Minister! High house! When I came to Parliament in 2003, we had 300,000 care providers. Today there are 450 000 care providers. This is, of course, a very rapid development. It is also not easy for the Minister for Social Affairs to implement this limitation measure here. But we carry them to keep the whole system, because care money is important as cash next to the benefits in kind. This needs to be further developed, and this is happening here, by increasing the care money of the others. Steps and also by equalizing family members of nursing children with pension insurance schemes. However, I would like to speak on another important point. This is the Health and Hospital Care Act, which is not the subject of the social sector, but rather of the health sector, but also related to it. What happens in the hospital is that care assistance and caregivers are regulated, that may be okay for the hospital. I can't judge that. But it would be fatal to put that into the ambulatory field, because then a professional group of the others would put the sound in the hand. There is a need for holistic care, and care activities must also be included. This also includes the possibility of the delegation of care activities by qualified care professionals and the possibility of an disabled caregiver, as in the case of personal assistance. Especially in facilities also care activities happen, and if we want disabled people to be integrated and living included, it must also be possible to integrate care activities in everyday life. That is why I appeal to you to share these two areas, hospital and outpatient, in the GKG, the Health and Hospital Care Act, and to find different regulations here, which is not the case at present. I brought a little Christmas present, Christmas is at the door, and it's true – do you show it? – an ear-fucking chocolate, a literary prize-earn-smooth that all Members get. [[the speaker's assistant shall keep the relevant item up to date]] It is a literary prize of people with learning disabilities who write their thoughts, their opinions, their views, what they are concerned with in literary texts and also show what potential is in disabled people, in people with learning disabilities, in people with intellectual impairments. In the media, they are very often only presented as compassionate and poor at Christmastime. This chocolate and these texts – in the banderole a text is printed by a prize winner – also show what potentials are possible. If you eat this chocolate, you also remember that human dignity is something important and that it is not in the Constitution! Care is also part of human dignity, and I advocate that human dignity be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12226	Deputies! Dear Franz-Joseph! Thank you in the name of all for this chocolate gift, but above all also for the thoughts you have expressed in connection with it. Thank you! Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12250	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you now represent this as if it were the very big reform, the very big blow. It's a reduction – point! You can turn it and turn it as you like. It shows above all one thing: We had this very concept once, namely in 2011. You're here, too, and you said: Yes, we now need this reform to secure it permanently! – Three years later, we are now in the same situation, and nothing will change. You'll be Even in three years you will have to make a reduction again if you want to afford it because you make a mistake: They're not making any structural reform! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 5.3 percent, said Mr Wöginger; You, Mr. Minister, said that 5.2 per cent receive care money. Yes, it is all the more important that we finally remember and make a sustainable reform of financeability! I miss you. The only thing you always do is: They're making it difficult for you to enter. And if you do it again, Mr. Federal Minister, you did it: Then you removed exactly one level of care! Then you arrived at the one-stage where 2010 was still the two-level. This is your concept that you want to gradually take away the care money so to speak. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I would like to tell you one thing, if you always go there and say that it is so to speak for all social shifts. Yes, it is true, of course – and the luxurypensionist will be totally no matter! If I have a pension like Mr. Blecha of 15 000 €, I will not feel whether I get 150 € per month or not. But for which people is it? – Three-quarters of all pensioners can not look forward to such high pensions, but quite the contrary: They're starting around, for them it's partly existential. Buying services with 150 € – that's what my colleague Schwentner has already told you – will not play it! Moreover, people in need of care also have other needs. You have to pay for medications with self retention. They have other additives that they need due to various physical limitations. You can only hope that with the 150 € you will be able to do so. With this care allowance, which is paid today, 22 percent of the care needs are now covered especially in the low care levels. You can even calculate yourself once, especially for socially weak people: Who then covers the remaining 80 percent? – After all, this can be achieved from own resources and own resources. That's why I think you're almost a little naughty about what you're doing here, namely making yourself up here and saying: We secure everything, people are fine, we are world champions! And everything you demand is not affordable. At the same time, you now praise a so-called 2 percent increase in 2015. Until then, the loss of value will have reached 35 percent. So you really can't talk about an increase in the care allowance anymore. That's not a valorization either. This is at best an uplifting of the care providers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Wöginger, but you too are always awful when you say: How can we afford all of this? – You know, Federal Minister, we have, to mention just one example, an ÖBB that is dear and expensive to us. But if I assume that the ÖBB is indebted to 18 billion and we invest 4 billion in the ÖBB every year very easily, but here in the care money is disputed by 50 million a year, I wonder: Is that a serious discussion? – We take it away from people where it is easy to take away. And that, Minister of State, is unfair and unsocial! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, Mr Minister, told us today that you have been over 60 years old. I hope so and wish you were still in good health for a very long time. But even if you have perhaps reached the age of 100 years and need care money, Mr. Federal Minister, it won't matter if you get it or not, you won't get to the 150 € with your political board. show his. And that's exactly the problem: that I sometimes feel you can't even think into people who have to come out with a few hundred euros a month! In this context, I would like to make once again our motion for a “judgment” because I believe it is important that it is finally fair in this Republic to those who have received this system, which for years have been substituting into this system, on which screws are, in fact, permanently only turned. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I think we owe people this back to them. And if you say, Mr. Wöginger, that this costs €10 billion, I'll tell you: They steal 10 billion people every year! If you say we can't spend more than we take, I'll give you the right, but then I'll ask myself: Where does the high debt come from?
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12378	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12473	Next speaker: Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12494	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I should like to welcome the Linz vocational school, also on behalf of my colleague, Gusenbauer-Jäger. Welcome here in Parliament! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If you have experienced this debate about the revision of the law in recent hours closely, you can actually sum up briefly: The Federal Government takes on its responsibility and says that we must oppose it, we must also ensure the safety of care. – And she did! Then you take individual projects of the opposition parties, who, of course, say for self-interest, it is never enough. - You want more and more. But what is most disturbing is, of course, Mr Kickl's election speech. Mr. Kickl, I just want to write to you in your parent book: If you are already attacking SPÖ here and saying that this is not an achievement of the SPÖ and that we wanted to disassemble everything socially, I would remind you that this law was introduced under SPÖ Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun in 1993, there could be [[Abg. New builder: Isn't it anyway!]] Do not even write the word “care. ” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Conversely, one must also say that none of the opposition parties today had the courage and it was worth the effort to address the good in this law, to say that it includes improvements that, for example, kindergarten children will also fall under this law in the future, that relatives and also nurses can choose themselves and do not have to do this about a lawyer. You didn't mention all this. The only thing you do, and especially the FPÖ – and you have to say that – is to run a fright, precisely in the direction that the poor get nothing and get poorer. [[Abg. Kickl: That's it!]] - Dear Mr Kickl, that is not the case at all. You have not mentioned with any sentence that we spent 3 billion schillings on care at the time, 1993, and now you are holding fast. Today, 2014, it is €3 billion. That seems to have gone away from you. [[Abg. Kickl: That means the money is nothing more worth it!]] The next point you are not addressing is that we have 50 million more expenditure with this law, and we bear responsibility for it, including for the future of those who are to be cared for and who have the safety to be maintained. The communities, the countries and the Federation have provided, we have innovation, we have built the houses, we have thus provided for them. Of course, Mr Kickl, it is not possible to demand a minimum wage of 1,600 or 1,200 – or what is flying here in the room – for caregivers who only take care of the care level 1 or 2. That would be obscene and unresponsible if you put €10 billion in the room and can't finance it. Let's write this into the main book! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12583	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12604	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Care Act is to be amended. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is to be changed? – It should be changed at the expense of those people who urgently need care money. You have to remember, ladies and gentlemen – and this has also been addressed by colleagues Wöginger – that around 80 percent of the people in need of care are cared for and cared for at home by relatives. I believe that on this occasion we should also be very, very grateful to these people, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have often said this: If all the people who are being cared for at home went to a public institution, the elderly and nursing homes would burst out of all the seams. That is why we cannot understand from the FPÖ at all, Minister, that this Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP makes it difficult to access care levels 1 and 2. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government is setting itself up and saying that the care allowance is starting from 1. January 2016 increased by 2 percent. – In the care level 1, my dear ladies and gentlemen, this increases from 154.2 € to 157.3 €. This is 3,01 € – a “great achievement” of this Federal Government of Red and Black, to those people who urgently need it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the best, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government has forgotten at all, because the increase in this care allowance is only valid at 1. January 2016. But the advice offered, ladies and gentlemen, should be improved by informing the people concerned that they are not entitled to the care allowance. On such a “consultation” we can gladly miss out on the FPÖ and many affected people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12657	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12678	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Care and care in Austria place on future-proof legs, that is our goal. It is therefore necessary to deal responsibly with the existing money. We are glad that the care money will be increased by 2 percent in 2016. Every one of us, ladies and gentlemen of the Freemans, would wish for much more in the most beautiful budget of all time. But it is apparent that there is no longer much room for manoeuvre in the current economic situation. After all, in recent years, we have already succeeded in improving the framework conditions for caregivers, free pension insurance from level 3 at dementia or the care of minors as early as level 1. And it's supposed to be a next one soon. Steps are taken, i.e. the improvement of the right of inheritance for caregivers – if you take care of his family for many years in a sacrifice, you should receive an appropriate remuneration. At the request of the Stronach team on care insurance: Do we need a care insurance in Austria to finance the care? What are the arguments? Argument one: Please look at Germany! There are massive problems with care insurance, it is the opposite of a success story. Argument two: Care insurance would increase additional labour costs. Do we really want that? That is exactly what we do not want in the current economic situation – higher additional wage costs! Conclusion: We need neither care insurance nor new taxes to finance care. The care fund is well established. With the federal care money – we have heard it several times today – more than 450 000 people are being helped. For the forecasts: When it's said again and again, 2060 comes an explosion of care costs. What is not taken into account in these forecasts is the important precautions. There is a great deal to be done for today's 70-year-olds, so that they will need care later or only to a lesser extent. In addition, the forecasts relating to the year 2060, the 14-year-olds today, since the 60-year-olds are 14 years old today. So all the opportunities for a healthier lifestyle and more precautions. The existing money – and you are right – should be used even more efficiently in many areas. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly criticised the fact that there are nine national regulations, and there are even nearly 300 different domestic tariffs in a federal country. There are no uniform criteria. Who else should have the perspective? That is why we are working on a comprehensive structural reform. This structural reform, ladies and gentlemen, will also succeed, because the major administrative reform has already been well implemented. Then: More than 300 jobs were responsible for the classification and disbursement of the care allowance, now there are only more than five, and these work according to uniform criteria and even faster. All of this makes clear: We don't need new taxes and we don't need care insurance! The future means: More to ensure that existing money is used efficiently! Then the care is also insured for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12742	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law, which amends the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, together with the title and receipt in 365 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. Only official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who voted in favour of this draft law to vote in third reading, “Yes” voting paper, those who vote against to cast “No” votes in the urn. Please make sure you only throw a vote! I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12832	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e12870	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 145; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 89, ‘No’ votes: 56. This draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. (By way of derogation from the announcement of the voting behaviour by President Head, the actual vote result shall be as follows: 145; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 89, No votes: 55 ( + 1 invalid). [[See also 55. No of 11. Agenda item 20.]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Antoni, Aubauer, Auer; Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank; Karl, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Wheelers; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; tiny, Wittmann, Weavinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach, Jarmer; Cashier, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun; Lauch, Lintl, Loacker; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mölzer, Mückstein; Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; Rossmann; Treasure, Schellhorn, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser; Of a thickness Refusal torfer, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill, Worm Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13087	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schwentner, colleagues on access criteria for care allowance levels 1 and 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a minimum wage of €1600, annual adjustment of the allowance for care and the allowance for disabled persons, minimum pension of €1200 and pension adjustment at the pensioner price index (judgment). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 415 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – That's the majority. The request was accepted. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 416 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. [[13:45:04]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (321, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the General Pension Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act (SVAG) Amendment No 536/A(E) by Mr Mag. Mr Schwentner, colleagues in the field of self-insurance for the periods of care of a disabled child and the Question No 604/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (417 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 743/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the field of equal treatment for close relatives in the field of care and self-insurance (418 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues on a law with which the General Social Security Act, as last amended by BGBl. 68/2014, amended (419 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 644/A(E) by Mr Rouven Ertlschweiger, Mr MSc, colleagues, on the allocation of voluntary work to the acquisition of retirement periods (420 e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 773/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act (ASVG), the Commercial Social Insurance Act (GSVG), Farmers' Social Insurance Act (BSVG) and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (B-KUVG) (421 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13243	We now come to points 7 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13270	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the last item on the agenda, Mr Kickl was accused of having tabled a request that could not be financed. I can tell you the following: Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has not been to Alpbach for too long and has given a talk there – I quote from the daily media: “The Social Minister advocates an increase in the actual retirement age: If the Austrians were to retire seven calendar days later, its resort would be 25 million. Save Euro.” Ladies and gentlemen! In the year, this would be €1.3 billion, including civil servants' pensions, in other words, Mr Kickl's request would be financed. – Thank you very much, colleague Kickl! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: 9 billion!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last days and weeks we have received numerous submissions with donations to our households. The poverty conference has already been announced, a poverty conference that is not really in place in Europe – it seems that Austria needs a poverty conference because we are not as good as this government is trying to give us a permanent say. 1.5 million people in this country are at risk of poverty, and 700,000 people are now indeed manifestly poor. If you're always talking about being only 14 percent, that's after social benefits and not before social benefits. With the individual benefits it would be 14 per cent, in fact it is 26 per cent, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The location picture in some cities is now often influenced by many beggars who gather, social markets are opened up; we can be proud of it, but in fact it is a shame that we need it. We have the highest unemployment since 1945, and this also does not help to reduce poverty in this country than it has been before. For the fifties and the elderly, there is an increase of 9,900 people, ladies and gentlemen, and many people in Austria are fighting for what they are taking. From this perspective, for many people in this country the coming Christmas festival will probably be more sad. Nevertheless, this government is constantly telling us that we are a rich country, although we have over 80 percent of public debt. Many of these governments are already living over their circumstances, but they are not ready to finally save themselves. No, you want to ask the citizens back to the cash register – and you talk about social justice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, if this is social justice, I do not know what is still socially democratic and socially just in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Schulz, who is being disturbed by SPÖ from one party day to the other, cashes €24 000 per month net and earns €304 tax-free on the day. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much that is, 304 € a day, a daily rate of 304 €? – That’s what someone receives in care level 3 per month in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] This is paid free of tax per day for Mr Schulz, ladies and gentlemen, and I am sorry to have to be told by these rulers what is socially fair for them. That must also be said. We have such a fine lord, Mr Rompuy. For three years now – so that he can eat warm every day – he gets €758,000 for the bad work he has done in the EU. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's how it looks! If, in Austria, we have to deal with all these problems when we have set up a Commission on pensions, which will find a solution to these problems for the future and bring out the best for people, and we have been doing nothing in this Commission for years to listen to long, ideological discussions and to bring people from Vorarlberg to Burgenland to these meetings, where nothing has come out for years, then I must tell you that this is also a failure of the Ministry of Social Affairs which has been watching this Commission for years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the people in this country deserved to finally regulate the future of their professional, but also their retirement age.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13376	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13462	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13483	Mr Neubauer, it is difficult, after your speech, to discuss here objectively. For the spectators, your proposal is once in a picture: Your proposal is – you yourself have calculated that one year later retirement means 1.2 billion – to retire at a very early age of eight years, i.e. between 70 and 73, with 1,200 € pension. That's your suggestion, if you can count, and that's what people should be told. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's what you said. So you count and so you make politics, 1.2 billion per year... [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't understand anything!]] – You don’t understand, Mr Kickl, I know that anyway. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] With regard to Mrs Schwentner's request: The question that the Greens ask is: Can the same thing be treated differently? If someone today gets a temporary incapacity for work, it may be that he gets only 600 €. That was so before the introduction of the reha money, and that is what it is now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] New is that someone who has the same disease may receive reha money or re-training money and there may be a compensation allowance for this group of persons. I think we should distinguish what was before and what is now. Previously, it was so that people who were unable to work, but had the potential, had retired for a limited period of time. It's new to say to these people: We're doing something with you! If you argue, we'll take these people's future, then I'll tell you, it's just the reverse. We are trying to give these people a future by saying: If you're still working, do a re-training! Or we say: If your health is affected, make a rehabilitation! All this is something other than what we did before. Of course, we know from practice that it is a changeover for someone who has so far been temporary incapacity for work or invalidity when someone says at once: You, I'll take you by the hand, and we'll make a rehabilitation now, or we'll do a re-training! This is a challenge, because we know that in this area many suffer from psychiatric diseases, and for someone who has a mental illness, it is of course a challenge to adapt to a re-training or rehabilitation. Whatever we've done is the following – and I think that's also an important achievement: We now expect up to 60 months of rehabilitation and re-training for occupational protection and for employment protection. This is important for those who really can't. When it comes to identifying incapacity for work or invalidity, they also have the opportunity to obtain this benefit on the basis of the protection of their activity. I may come briefly to the request of the Stronach team: Pensions for voluntary work. I think volunteering is voluntary work and should remain voluntary. What we have changed in the past – and I think that was important and correct – is that where something is happening for society, in the voluntary social year, those young people and young adults who complete a voluntary social year are ill-insured, accident-insured and socially insured. I think that's good, but that's enough in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13544	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13565	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! At this item on the agenda, we are discussing very, very many - almost - repairs in the law; I would just like to refer to a few. A particularly pleasing – or the story itself is not so pleasing at all, I tell her briefly now – concerns Mrs Formayer. It was already in the “time in the picture”, so I can also name it. Ms. Formayer is a Grazer, 55 years old, single-schooler of a 21-year-old son. Your son is a spastic, he's at the nursing level 6, that is, he actually needs to take care of around the clock. He's got around the clock support from his mother, and that since he was very small, that is, for 21 years. For her son, Ms. Formayer gets €1 260 at the nursing level of 6,40 per cent of which she is deducted because he goes to school or is cared for, and that is deducted in the Styria. That means that the Formayer family, the wife with her son, remains 760 € in care money. It's no wonder that this isn't enough for life or survival, so she's going to work half-day so she can continue to care for her son in the remaining time. The case of Formayer was the occasion for a repair in the law, which I am very pleased about, which is also good, namely that in the future people who care for their relatives, with regard to self-insurance, are treated equally in the calculation of the pension, whether they are caring for a disabled child – like Mrs. Formayer; I come back to her now – or an older relative/an older family. It is good that this will be aligned, because that has not been the case so far. Nevertheless, it is true that Mrs Formayer is unfortunately not lucky to benefit from this change of law because she is not retroactive. This would not be an expensive matter, it does not concern so many people, but – as in the case of Mrs Formayer – it is massive. It would be of great importance because, as is now the case, it would not be at risk of being poor at the age, if it were to charge its insurance periods in the care for the pension. This is very, very unfortunate, although the change and the repair in the law itself, namely for future cases, is a good one, which I am also pleased with. However, we should have made it retroactive and not with such a long adjustment time as now, but best immediately, because – and we have also talked about it at the previous item on the agenda – as many women care for their families at home, so many women – Mr Loacker mentioned it – work in part-time as Mrs Formayer and then, as in their case, are at risk of poverty. To prevent this, these women need support at different levels, and that would be one of those we would have expected. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but fortunately we were able to fix it, at least for the future. A welcome change is also due to an initiative by us. It's a bit of an anachronism in the law, because, due to some cases, we have to report to pensioners who spend more than two months abroad, that they have to register at the pension insurance institution, namely, that they are abroad. This has an absurd effect, but it could threaten them to lose some benefits, at least for a short time, or threaten them a procedure in which their food point needs to be determined. That's from the table now, and I also thank you for your support. That was not always the case, but the possibility existed, and therefore the law was an anachronism, so it probably also saw Mr. Minister Hundstorfer. There is one point, however, that prevents us from agreeing to this entire item on the agenda, namely the possibility that people who receive the rehabilitation allowance will be put the rehabilitation money back in the future if they do not follow the health insurance arrangements. This aggravates the situation of rehabilitation workers, probably thousands of people. It is a very, very unclear arrangement, unfortunately you have not been able to explain to us how it is actually being handled. And because we fear that this will actually cost thousands, we will not agree to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13614	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13638	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Vogl, you said at this point that I would have advertised one year in my speech for the increase in the retirement age. I quote and correct as follows: Federal Minister Hundstorfer said: If the Austrians were to retire seven calendar days later, its resort would save €25 million, which in the year, including civil servants' pension, would bring in 1.3 billion of minimum expenditure. A week, says the Minister – not the Werner Neubauer – would bring it in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Mr Vogl, you seem to have a massive problem to distinguish between legal and factual retirement age. But you're still young, you're still open to the world...
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13680	Mr deputies, please make corrections without any comments. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. New builder.]] Next word: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13714	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the Social Insurance Adjustment Act: A number of detailed changes to social security legislation, which are to be decided, have already been addressed. For me, this is a positive arrangement for the people concerned, I would like to address some, some have already been mentioned. I share the opinion of Mrs Schwentner, when she believes that the change is positive for those parents who care for disabled children, so a job also opens up the possibility of self-insurance. I also see it positive that care years give a better account for the pension, and I also see it positive that there is an adjustment of the contribution basis for self-insurance to the applicable contribution basis for the care of close relatives. This is to be noted positively, according to the Social Ministry, 3 500 mothers and fathers are affected, and they will benefit from it. The Farm Social Insurance Act also receives new legal criteria, which are now enshrined in the law accordingly: The group of persons involved in self-insurance in accident insurance will be extended, and in future the members of the family working in the farm will be involved and involved. Employees' parents remain insured after a court transfer, even if the marriage, for example by the death of their child, is dissolved. With regard to occupational social security, too, provisions are included, which I see very positive: for example, that self-employed persons from 2016 onwards will be able to raise the basis of contributions on their own request. For me, this is an important opportunity if additional income is expected – in the other direction, this is already possible, and so it is a more flexible design option for entrepreneurs. It is also positive that a pilot project has now been incorporated into a permanent right, namely the pilot project of bridging aid. This helps entrepreneurs who are affected by long-term illness, natural disasters, or who have been hit by a major client's pleite, to pay their social security contributions accordingly. I would like to add one point that has already been discussed: the numerous adaptations in the area of rehabilitation money, namely the retirement of the rehabilitation allowance in the event of repeated injuries by the contributors – for it must be obvious that social security funds are used for rapid recovery, and of course the insured also have to make their contribution to that. Ladies and gentlemen, with this change of law, there are many detailed changes, for me, for the people concerned, to a wide variety of improvements, and therefore the changes to social security law are to be welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13757	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13780	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary! Dear TV viewer! Austria is the country of volunteers, almost every second is volunteering in his free time and makes this out of conviction. Last Friday we celebrated the International Day of Honor in Austria and asked the volunteers almost in front of the curtain. And, as it is, of course, so usual in a high-political country like Austria, the Party Secretariats were of course also called on the plan and made broadcasts, how important it is, the volunteers, the achievements they bring. If the state had to afford all of this itself, it would go into the billions. The head of state in Burgenland Steindl of the ÖVP has pointed out that the areas of the community would not work without volunteers at all. The SPÖ Soziallandesrat Peter Rezar has pursued in the ORF and thanked all those who do volunteer work in the Burgenland. So really an insanity, Happy Pepi, the volunteer people are really brought in front of the curtain and really honored. It is only, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not the case for me, because on the day of the Honorary Office, it has also made a request in the Committee for the recognition of voluntary work on the acquisition of retirement periods by me, and it has fallen through with bombs and grenades. I can only thank the FPÖ, Mr Norbert Hofer, my colleague from Burgenland, who had the far-sightedness, also agreed with and said: Yes, that's important to us! We are not satisfied with just talking, politics really creates framework conditions and recognizes the performance of the volunteer people. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the Committee, Mr Wöginger argued that demarcation is difficult and only leads to displeasure among other associations – completely right. Previously, Mr Vogl has said perfectly correctly that during the resolution of the voluntary social year you are also insured for retirement – that is all right, it is perfectly right. But I wonder one thing: We here in the House are responsible for creating the framework conditions with which the people in Austria have to live in this country. Here we really have the opportunity to do something good, to do something meaningful and to say to these volunteer people: Yes, your work is important to us, we are showing recognition for it, and that is to be honoured accordingly! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The figures speak a clear language: Volunteers pay 15 million hours of work per week. This must be broken on the tongue: 15 million hours of work. At the Red Cross alone – Colleague Wöginger is at the Red Cross, so I find it strange that he is against it – around 60,000 volunteers who provide 10.6 million hours of service per year – 10.6 million hours of service! And what do you think about Christmas when we all stand by the Christmas tree, who will do the activities here? Who stands in the operational center and accepts the telephone calls when the Christ tree burns and the father is seriously injured? Who's driving the ambulance? – The volunteers, because 100 percent of these activities are not carried out by the main professionals, but by the volunteers. That's why I think it's really sad that you don't look over the edge of the plate and say: Yes, that's a good request, no matter if it's from the opposition or not – Because not every request from the opposition is vague, ladies and gentlemen, there are quite a lot of things in it –, okay, we do it. To prove such a wide view would be beautiful, even in times like this. If I listen to the hypo debate today, we're sinking billions, billions are blown into smoking, and this is what we're thinking – that's ridiculous, that's banal, please! This is about our people, about our people who volunteer, and we are unable to jump over our shadows and say: Yes, this performance is worth it to us! I think that's really sad, and that's why I appeal to you again: Rethink your decision and agree to my request for voluntary work on the acquisition of retirement periods! I believe that this would be a useful thing, a sustainable thing, and it would also be a good sign for people in this country to think about how to make life easier for them, and not how to make life more difficult for them, with even more taxes, with even more pressure, with more, more, more, more. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13854	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13875	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The government template, which we are about to decide, includes, as has already been said, several detailed changes in the social security sector, and there are significant improvements which are explicitly mentioned. Mr Singer mentioned some, Mr Schwentner mentioned in particular the benefits for parents who care for children with disabilities – these are particularly important points that are being improved here. Policy is responsible for ensuring that the families concerned are able to reconcile their working life and their care life well. A number of other measures will need to be taken in this area. Much of the changes are directly related to the newly regulated disability and incapacity pensions. It seems essential to us to strengthen this access, namely not to push people into dependence, but to keep them in employment as long as they go. Politics must ensure that people can take care of themselves, the state helps citizens to self-determination. That must be the target, and it will be hit here. However, what it says is: It is adjusted in various fields in the field of competence between health insurance and pension insurance, and it is seen that this parallel work by various insurance companies is somewhat unhappy. We are also of the opinion that the issue of disability and inability to work, when it comes to rehabilitation and the measures that keep people in working life, would be better placed in the health insurance companies and would have been consistently implemented there. However, I would like to highlight one point because it illustrates how crazy Austrian social security systems are. This is the point in which the Administrative Court has abolished the possibility of having two separate insurance relationships within an insurance institution, i.e. a multi-party insurance within an insurance company. I think it's crazy enough that you can be insured with several insurance companies at the same time, but a multiple insurance within rural social security, that's great, and extending this greatness You now use this law to help the Austrian social security system to create an international single position. For this reason, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e13941	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14012	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14035	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am voting on item 10 on the agenda. Accounting for voluntary work. Mr Ertlschweiger, this is certainly a good request from you, which is out of question, but we have already submitted it when you may not have known where Parliament is located. - Excuse me, but it is. Ladies and gentlemen! This billing of voluntary work on the calculation of pensions is necessary. There's nothing going on in Austria without honor. That's why all volunteers throughout Austria have a huge thanks for their commitment and for their work! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The honorary office, ladies and gentlemen, would not have to be thought away from Austrian society. Volunteers make great efforts, whether in the fire department, in the rescue or in many aid organizations. Unfortunately, there are also several organizations that have problems finding young people, we know, and it would certainly not be a bad idea and a good approach, would provide an incentive from the federal government to take the honorary office into account in the calculation of pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14071	The next item is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14093	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide a large number of adaptations to the Social Insurance Adjustment Act. I should like once again to deal with the item on the agenda which deals with the approximation of self-insurance in pension insurance in the event of the care of a disabled child to those of the care of close relatives, such as the care of parents. I am aware that today very many ladies and gentlemen will vote in favour of this; Mrs Schwentner presented very impressively the background to the legislative amendment. Persons who take on the task of caring for their disabled children themselves do overhuman things in many cases. This often requires the complete strain of a parent, so many parents can't do any work either. The form of voluntary insurance offers women and men who are devoted to the care of a disabled child living in the common household free of charge the possibility of being insured in pension insurance under certain conditions. There is already this possibility. Today's change is a step-by-step increase in the contribution base from currently €1 105 to €1 650 by 2019, which will ultimately be reflected in higher pensions. This corresponds to the applicable contribution basis for self-insurance for caring close relatives. In this context, the exercise of employment is also amended in addition to care, without losing the possibility of self-insurance in pension insurance itself. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is an important step in the equality of self-insurance in the care and care of a family and in the care of a disabled child. Finally, a few remarks on the agenda item 11. The purpose of the application is to eliminate the additional contribution from insured members of the health insurance scheme with the achievement of the statutory retirement age. Here, in 2000, the legislator provided for an additional contribution to be paid in health insurance for certain co-insuranced members from January 2001. There will be a change. The Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has here the proposal to allocate to the Health Committee. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14138	Mrs Schimanek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14159	Mr President. Minister! High house! As my previous speakers have already mentioned, this law is only a repair of an existing law, which is partly made up of good adaptations – Mr Schwentner has also mentioned this – but also includes negative measures for reha money referees and the pension commission. That is why we will also reject this bill. I would like to take a brief look at the positive changes. That we now create the possibility of self-insurance in pension insurance for the care of a disabled child is, of course, a great relief and very positive assessment for those concerned, but that this is only possible from the present time and not retroactive, is not a huge improvement. That is why I would like to comment briefly on my colleague Norbert Hofer's request, which goes in a similar direction. It is also a matter of ensuring equal treatment for close relatives in the care and self-insurance. We know that there are numerous cases in the Federal Administrative Court which deal with inequality in this area. For example, if you want to take care of your mother for years and do not charge or enforce this care for this period, you will only be taken into account for one year, while you will be made possible retroactively in the care of a disabled child of the actual period. And this, of course, is contrary to the applicable constitutional principle that a retroactive effect of self-insurance in the care of a disabled child is regulated differently than in the care of a close family. It would therefore be socially desirable and absolutely justified if the legislator would extend the regulations of § 18a ASVG to § 18b. There must be equality in the care of close relatives and disabled children. And I do not understand why you reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14197	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14218	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! With this Social Insurance Adjustment Act, we decide on a number of positive measures with a focus on caregivers. I believe that the access to support caregivers is particularly important in our care system, because especially the caregivers very, It's a lot to do. We all know that a large part of the care takes place in the families, in their own environment and that these caring families often take on a lot of them. Therefore, as a politician, we have to ensure that it is our mission, and this is what we are going to do again with this law, that there is the best possible support and security in this area. In particular, it is about improving the caregivers of people with disabilities, especially in self-insurance. In practice, there has been an imbalance in the care of a child with disabilities compared to the care of an older person. I think it is always a good sign when policy takes up and changes such inequalities. In concrete terms, we are talking about harmonisation. The contribution base will be increased from € 1 100 to € 1 650; in particular, these parents will also be able to pursue limited employment in the future. It has already been said that some 3,500 mothers and fathers will benefit from it. And I am glad that this has succeeded. A sentence on the application for the allowance of retirement periods in the case of voluntary work. I do not think we should be here and pretending to support voluntary work with such simple applications that are not at all well-founded and not calculated. I think we all confess to volunteer work. We know that volunteering in Austria is an important factor. And you have to look at this very differentiated, because volunteering has many factors that affect this work. But it works very, very well in many areas, and many measures are being taken by the Federal Government, but also very strongly by the countries and, above all, on the local level, at the local level. So: Voluntary work is well placed in Austria, which you can always develop, but it is certainly not the most important factor here to anchor accounting times for the pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14257	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14279	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciate spectators at the gallery! Estimated social bureaucrats! I would like to take it to the occasion today that we are also discussing the Commercial Social Security Act, where many self-employed, many of these one-person entrepreneurs have a big problem, namely the minimum contribution base. You currently have to pay fixed amounts in the industrial social security system, which many may not know, including those of the spectators, which are currently 2 405 € per year, whether they have earned a euro or whether they have earned 8 255 € per year. Once caught in industrial social security, these minimum contributions are due. It would be a concern here to step up the situation, to get something out of the way and really to achieve something for the self-employed, at least to achieve equality with the ASVG, i.e. to reduce the minimum contribution base to the level of poverty in the ASVG. To describe this again dramatically: You can now make yourself independent as a micro-contractor and not yet pay industrial social security, but only accident insurance. But if you have a euro more than this If you earn a limit, then you fall into industrial social security, pay the minimum contributions, after several years then pay €2 405 each year. If you want to reduce this, for example, if you want to run the self-employment side by side, these €2 405 are still due to contributions. This is relatively absurd, and there are very few ways to escape. There has been the possibility since last year of not having to make contributions during child care, while child rearing times are not available, but otherwise you can only come from 60. I'll be back for a lifetime. This is a totally unfriendly act towards entrepreneurs. That is why today I have also prepared a proposal on equality: [[Quoted print version removed]] So this is an approximation that is urgently needed in the sense of justice. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14343	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köchl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14586	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. I also do not recognise a wish for the final word of the report. We shall now proceed to the vote. I will make them separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 7: Draft Social Security Adjustment Act in 417 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a member of the Magnificent. Loacker's request for separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 3 points 7 and 9 to 11 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who want to agree to these parts of the bill in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority and thus also at the third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neubauer, colleagues, on the reform of the Pension Insurance Commission. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to no multiple social security relationships. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Köchl, colleagues, on the abolition of the minimum basis of contribution. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 418 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 419 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 420 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 421 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I'm showing that – I'm sorry, that's not right here. [[See Supplement by President Head p. 133.]] [[14:33:27]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 621/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on final pension harmonisation (422 p.a.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 714/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on strengthening 2nd and 3rds. Column in the pension system (423 e.g.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 739/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the previous increase in the age of women's retirement (424 p.a.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 562/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on “A harmonised pension system for all employees in Austria – whether private, public or functional” (425, e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 774/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 11 December 1885 was adopted. In October 1978, the social security scheme for self-employed persons in the industrial sector (the Commercial Social Insurance Act), as last amended by BGBl. 56/2014, amended (426 d.a.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 472/A by Mr Mag. Judith Schwentner, colleagues regarding a federal law with which the Pensions Act 1956, last amended with BGBl. I No. 213/2013, and the Federal Railway Act, last amended by BGBl. I No. 35/2012, amended (427 d.a.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 761/A(E) by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the merger of social security schemes (428b)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14860	We now come to points 12 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e14887	Mr President. Federal Minister! The issue I would like to address is the merger of social security institutions. It is not true that we are discussing this for the first time in this House today, which has almost a beard. Nevertheless, it is an important issue, and I do not believe that we will discuss it for the last time today, unless the Minister behind me and with him the government groups came to their senses. I am speaking in the conjunctiv, I do not think so, because we have already heard of him some kind of Njet in connection with this topic, just as right in Soviet manner or in functional manner, as you say so beautifully. Or there is another way to get rid of an annoying subject, which we encounter more often – for example in the Committee. And that one simply sends such a request, which is a little unloving, into the adjournment loop. Mrs. Aubauer has had a shocking Openness about how to do this: This is annoying for us, you bring it to the tapet too often, so we are adjourning this thing!, which – in terms of the explanation for the spectators at home – means that this request is no longer the way to the plenary session, that is to say to the public. That's what I'm talking about. So, of course, one can also shake unpleasant issues, and the issue of permanent refusal to reform in the social security field seems to be an unpleasant one for the government parties. It becomes dishonest when you go here and say: But the opposition has no proposals at all. Therefore, one sends the requests to the endless loop in the committee and, at the same time, regrets that the opposition has no own ideas, yes, it does not act responsibly at all. That's the method you work with. The word “irresponsible ” still leads me to some comment from the previous stage. A comrade comes out of the SPÖ and, in connection with a minimum wage requirement, presents us with responsibilitylessness. I would like to come to the Renner Institute once and give you re-help in your own party programm and in the things that you yourself promise to land against the election struggles of the population. I have to quote from this book again: Project Number 19: 1 500 € Minimum wage, required by Social Democracy. And I do not assume that you have written this in order that it will not be implemented – and in the meantime I already trust you to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find it without responsibility when we talk about minimum pensions: I find it unaccountable for you to leave social democracy if you allow someone to land, after hard work, basically where someone comes with minimum security after relatively short working. That's not responsible for me too, and you should think about it! In my opinion, it is not responsible for women who, for example, have done a valuable service to society with child rearing, then to lie somewhere at a pension level from which one cannot live and which one can have much “cheap” with the minimum guarantee. And it is not responsible for me, too, for you to pursue employment and, in reality, there is no longer any difference to the unemployed income of the minimum guarantee. These are also forms of responsibility, and you should think about them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundesminister, in connection with social security, you seem to have replaced Mr Neugebauer. Now you are the one who is touching the concrete in this House, the proof of refusal of reform. I am only afraid that you will soon be alone with your political groups, because the group of those who say we have to reform this system, because not only in the system, in the system itself, but especially where it goes outside, there are friction losses that cost billions. It would be unintelligent not to raise these billions, even in view of the situation you are always straining, that there is too little money. So I don't understand why you continue to refuse with your Njet. Meanwhile, all opposition parties are in favour. Yes, there are different models, you can discuss them, no question at all, but we all agree that you have to end this wild growth. These are health economists who count on you to do what you can with the savings you can make. But they are probably as badly advised as all these social institutions that criticize you in terms of care – you need to be a little careful. In the meantime, the business chamberer Leitl is also one of those who say that it makes no sense that we want to enjoy the luxury of so many health insurance companies. It is a matter for the Commission and the Council of This is probably also an evil populist, because the second mesh is that if you don't delay it and land it here, then the populists are those who demand these reforms. This is a further access to the subject of reform by social democracy and the ÖVP. I say one thing to you, Minister of State, that this resistance is not justified. I do not understand why we need 22 social security funds – a huge amount of them in the form of health insurance schemes – if there is no free choice between these insurance companies. What do we need that for? – We are almost categorized in this system – either by place of work or by form of work – it is like in an Indian caste. You can't choose it, but because of these conditions of entry – and that's it. This diversity would make sense if you could change. If there was a competition between them, it would be in the interests of the insured. But you don't care about the interests of the insured. You prefer to be the lawyer of the officials who can also accommodate you in an area of 13 000 employees. You'd rather give up a few billion euros of discharge potential for the population – for you can get this way of playing! In Germany there is this in the field of health insurance. There you can switch. We do not have that, so our proposal goes in a different direction. Please do not give up on this diversity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If, on the one hand, we sum up all contributions, we sum up all the financing in the issue and summarize the organizational units and the control functions, then the insured person has what he needs. You must stop the luxury of a playground for supply cases from the functional level. In the interests of the citizens, it would all be. I think something else is important in connection with social security schemes, which are always referred to as self-government. What kind of self-management is that?- Oh, my God! – This is a red-black proporz administration. It is a bit indirectly organized because the orders are made from the chambers, but that is not really in the interests of the insured. That is why our proposal is going a step further in this context. We want to break this up and a real co-determination of those who are subject to compulsory insurance in the system. What is against the fact that those who make these insurance contributions then also say to the administrative bodies and control bodies in this system that they are elected by these people? – That would be real co-determination, that would be real transparency, that would be real control! It's pretty slow to suspect that you're sustainablely refusing to meet us only a single millimeter and take up meaningful demands. A note relating to social security. They discuss – and I admit, that is what we have come to discuss – a reduction in the wage tax in the lower areas. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Greiner]] That is a necessary measure. But have you thought about what this looks like for small and medium-sized employees in the field of social security contributions? Have you ever looked at that before? – There you can get a multiple volume of relief for these people, which you can achieve with the change in wage tax. I do not understand at all how one can take seriously the concerns of the little people, the low-earner, of those who supposedly want to protect you from social democracy, if one does not attack this issue. Would one be today Earn €1500, then bring down – as planned – at the first level €8 per month. 8 € is the discharge! The same person pays for this 1,500 € grossly 256 € in social security contributions. I believe that this is a system in which injustice is actually cemented, and we should start here. You know just as well as I do that 2.5 million employees do not pay a wage tax at all due to their low income. That would be a corresponding relief for those people who really deserve little. There would be no burden on anyone and no burden for any performance – only at the expense of a SPÖ and an ÖVP that would have to refrain from their playing lines for the supply of their officials.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15014	Ladies and gentlemen! You may have noticed that during the vote on item 11 earlier, I have audibly hesitated to read a sentence from the Croquis, namely that I assign Amendment 773/A to the Committee on Health, which is, of course, a rare procedure after a vote. That's why I broke down the sentence. However, I now note that the Committee's request, which has been accepted, provides for the assignment of the application to the Committee on Health. This allocation must of course be made. I hereby announce that I assign the proposal 773/A to the Health Committee. The vote has been correct and everything has not been a problem. Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15063	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! I would like to comment on Agenda items 12 to 14, but I would like to make a few words on Mr Kickl's comments. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Fact is – how have you always learned? – to let what works work. There, one should not try to dissuade certain things or change things. Fact is – I come from Styria – that we have a total administrative burden of just 1.7 percent in the Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenbank. Therefore, if some broken people come – health economists or as they are still called – and say that this is so much to win, then, I believe, that is not the final end of wisdom. In many other areas, there would be other ways to do something else, for example – as has already been done – in wage tax and wealth. However, I would now like to comment on Agenda items 12 to 14 on the requests made by Mr Loacker. As has already been discussed in detail in the Committee, the Committee's report is negative on all three points. - Why? This may also be interesting for the spectators in front of the screens. The request on agenda item 14 once again deals with raising the age of women's retirement age earlier than planned and agreed by the Federal Government. You almost have the impression that the Murmeltier greets here monthly. Someone has the idea to demand it over and over again. The fact is: Women may well have a right to rely on a pension system where they know when their retirement date is and at what amount of pension they are entitled to. We must not always fall into these political discussions, that it must be raised earlier. [[Calls of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] The fact is that we have reached this age of entry in 2033, and fact is, Mrs. Colleague, that all those people – whether manderl or female – are allowed to work longer now, who want it and – that is the second – can do it. We have a problem with this “may”. All those who talk about increasing the statutory retirement age mean not that higher pensions are paid, but that those who do not manage to do so will eventually be reduced. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Sure too!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is an understatement!]] For all those who do not make it physically and health-related, who do not get a chance in the economy due to their state of health, this would increase the reductions – and that would be a clear reduction in the pension! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On agenda item 13 with regard to Mr Loacker's request for second and third reading. Column in the pension system. – Mr Commissioner, we have had that before! They shall carry out in their application: ‘Opening the second and third pillars for care’. – Everyone here in this room knows anyone who was precipitated years ago that you should agree to a company board. Some claims have even been exchanged that you get a corporate pension for this. Everyone in this hall knows someone. A study by the Chamber of Labour says that since the financial crisis, 27 percent have lost their pension. Now someone here should say that this second and third pillar is a successful system and it is good to make this attractive again!? – There is just a safe pillar in the pension system, and that is the state pillar! On agenda item 12: time-consuming harmonisation of all pension systems. – This chart here, which is not mine, shows that we have already begun harmonizing pension systems, and that officials are in the end already equal to the ASVG insured persons at the time of entry after 2004, born 1975. [[The speaker refers to the panel he placed on the speaker's desk.]] This chart also shows that we have no problem with financing if we continue to agree that no more than 6 percent of the gross domestic product is spent by the state on pensions. If we want to, we don't have to discuss it again and again and question it again. The fact is that this Federal Government has given a clear opinion in the coalition paper on pensions and on how this should take place by 2018. The fact is that the pensions in the hands of our Federal Minister Rudolf Hundstorferf are safe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15146	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15168	Mr President. Minister! Dear viewers! As far as the harmonisation of social security funds is concerned, I can only agree with my predecessor. This will remain the subject, and at least we guarantee it from the opposition parties. It is easy to see why we are dealing with very different systems, different performance and really unfair effects. The issue of social security schemes is not only about savings, but also about the elimination of injustices in the system. Each or every – and I can't say it often enough in this context – knows that, depending on the insurance you are insured with, you get different benefits – partly also in the various CCCs. If I were insured with the CCC Styria, I would have different claims than if I were insured with the CCC Upper Austria. No one can explain what that is and what it is good for – except to keep certain jobs and stay on posts. Tell the people what they got! – It is not understandable to me! [[Congratulations with Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] That is why we naturally agree with the NEOS proposal, which deals with the harmonisation of the pension insurance system. We will also repeatedly submit requests from our side and also support those of the other opposition parties. So far – at least on the opposition side – there is unity. As for the further proposals we are discussing, for example the NEOS request to finance this pension system in the future, there is already less approval from my side. For this there is a request concerning the tax support or exemption from private pension provision. I do not believe that capital markets and investment in private pension systems actually guarantee security; this has shown us the complete collapse in 2008 and 2009. There I am with my colleague Muchich, my previous speaker: This is not a system I trust in in any way, and it is not a system that is in any form solidarian! I believe that the only solidarity system is the pension scheme. We all pay in the same system, and we guarantee that the people who get older in Austria will also receive a pension from it. It already flows € 2 billion of support into private provision, and I think that's enough. These 2 billion are missing elsewhere. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another request is now being made for a repeated time by the NEOS, namely on the increase in the age of women's retirement. There are also similar voices on the part of the ÖVP, especially male votes. The women who sit in the Equal Treatment Committee are obviously still of the opinion that we should not increase the age of women's retirement early. But we now hear from Mitterlehner, Minister Kurz and others again and again that we should raise the age of women's retirement early. I invite all those who are never in the Committee on Equal Opportunities to attend this report, namely, if we are negotiating the report, which is being presented every two years and which keeps us in mind, that, as regards equality in the labour market, we are far from so far away in Austria that we should increase the age of women's retirement age in advance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Mrs. Colleague, it is now the case that most women retire from the unemployed or from the sick or other conditions – and not from employment. If we make it possible for women to work longer, they should be able to do so. It should ensure that they can work. They will not retire from the unemployed, as is the case now. Therefore, we must first try to complete this house “equalisation”, and then, according to the timetable decided, we put the roof on the “woman’s retirement age”. It is also the question of whether this would not be unconstitutional anyway, we would raise it early. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, that would be just legal...!]] But this is obviously not the subject at all. To the extent that the invitation to the Equality Committee to discuss together once and not always ensure irritation. To the other story of harmonisation, we would have explained everything under the roof and the subject and also the women's retirement age history: If we harmonise the system, we make a pension insurance for all, then we can also talk about these parts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15240	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I only have two messages. Point one: Mr Kickl, of course we have not voted for the €1500 at all, we only have another access, and it is about the social partners and not about the law. That's the only divergence we've got. [[Abg. Kickl: It used to be a convergence in the sum!]] We are not so far apart on the social side. We are good on the road and we already have it in many collective contracts. Point two: Ladies and gentlemen, as this matter of negotiation is now being interrupted by the short-term debate that is now taking place and I am not going to be here, as well as correctly reported, because I am allowed to open a conference on dual vocational training organized by the Austrian Embassy in Paris this evening in the French Senate and I must continue to my Council tomorrow morning in Brussels, I apologize to you. Mr Stöger will represent me – as well as correctly reported – in the further debate. Please do not misunderstand this as a disregard for the house, but if a conference on dual vocational training is already organised by the Austrian Embassy in the French Senate, one must also be there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15298	Thank you, Minister of State, I wish you a good trip! I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 12 to 18 of the agenda, and at the same time the session for a few minutes, and I ask the club members to give me a brief position. I'll explain what it was about after that. The sitting was suspended for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15342	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted session and may inform you about the following: During today's National Council meeting, access to Parliament's building was temporarily suspended for a few minutes due to a fire alarm in accordance with a service instructions in the house. It is to be said that this is unfortunately common in the house, and most of the time it is wrong alarms. Before the audible alarm is triggered, of course, an ad hoc explanation is first made to clarify what is behind it. If it was a wrong alarm, of course no general alarm will be triggered. That's quite the usual thing. It is in this case, as has been said, that access to the Parliament building is denied to any person who wishes to come in. Among them were three Members at the time of the vote: one representative of a government party, two representatives of opposition parties. The vote on Agenda items 4 to 6, the results of which I have already deunified and announced, fell during this time of the Torlock. There hasn't been such a case yet. In the presidential conference, other cases of obstacles have already been dealt with at the entrance of the meeting room, but not of the building. It's clear: This is, of course, about creating the fairest possible conditions for everyone at the Presidency. I was not aware of this incident at the time of the vote. I have only been made aware of this later by Mr Brosz and I have now also had the facts explained to everyone, which is why, of course, I was not able to take part in any part-session either. The incident, in my opinion, has not had an effect on the necessary quota – that was given – nor on the majority relationship. However, in order not to give rise to a possible cause for a debate on the vote, we are now making the matter clear again in the light of the applicable legal provisions, regulations and so on and will, if necessary, treat this matter once again in the course of these two plenary sessions within the framework of a presidential. That only to your information why I had to interrupt the meeting earlier. I can now hand over the presidency to the President-in-Office, who will then continue to enter the short debate. Please, Madam President. [[15:13:25]] Short debate on the reply to the question 2556/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15390	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the reply to the question 2556/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — The debate is closed. Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15426	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I am very sorry, Mr Minister, that I too now had to ask you about this question, but I also announced it about three months ago when we had the last question on the same subject. I have announced that I will address the same questions to both the Federal Chancellor and you – and if there are no answers, we must continue this game and discuss here why there has been no answers. It may be that you are also very little familiar with this matter – I can imagine that well – but you have a cultural speaker Maria Fekter, who was in front of you once at the Ministry of Finance and which is therefore very firm in both areas, and who could have directed your attention to what is coming today. So now we are here for the third time and discuss the lack of reply to parliamentary questions – always the same topic: It's about the Burgtheater, it's about the Bundestheater. We have addressed many questions to the Ministry of Culture on this complex, because of course we want to know: What's going on? We wanted to put light in the dark and clear up the mud. And on the part of the government, not only will this work not facilitate us, but it will be extremely difficult. The questions remain unanswered. First of all, we have asked very specific questions about the whole complex in the Ministry of Culture, and we have received an answer as an answer, we could only get an answer to protocols, to Supervisory Protocols. That's what we did: We asked for Supervisory Board protocols. Then it was said that we would have to ask specifically – so that would be too unconcrete – that we would have to ask very specific questions about these protocols. So, and now we have asked 196 very specific questions, and the Minister of Culture has not answered them and has called for the Constitutional Service. The Constitutional Service has now clarified in agreement with Parliament's Legal and Scientific Service: In this context, there is at least a duty to provide information on everything that the Minister can experience. The same applies to you, Minister of Finance. You too have this obligation of information insofar as a representative or a representative of your ministry is sitting in each of the supervisory councils of the Bundestheater – such as Burgtheater, Staatsoper, Volksoper and also at the Bundestheater-Holding – and are therefore informed of the conditions and the protocols. And now answer us that there would be no obligation to provide information on the protocols! Now I'm really wondering: What leads you to this right view? For I assume that the President has given you the minutes of the last presidency, in which it is quite clear – on 19.11. – the situation has been clarified and an agreement has been reached. I'm allowed to quote: that the ‘Federal Government is in principle obliged to answer parliamentary questions with a view to the decisions of the ‘Federal Theatre Supervisory Councils’. A previous report by Professor Theodor Öhlinger has been presented. I quote: It should therefore be assumed that everything that is subject to the obligation of the Supervisory Boards to provide information to the Minister is also subject to the Federal Minister's obligation to interact. Except for data protection, which must be justified. - Quote. Okay. And then Professor Öhlinger – I quote – writes: It cannot be deduced from the text of the Federal Theatre Organisation Act that there is no obligation to disclose written reports and protocols. - Quote. So with one word: It is not obvious – and that is what he adds – why the protocols should be ruled out. Legal and Scientific Service is also going in the same direction that there would be no clues to interpret the provisions in any way limited. Yes, and now we're slowly wondering: What's going on? There is now more and more suspicion that the Federal Government is doing everything it can to prevent these protocols from going out, because there may be some reason for the individual ministries to know more and have been watching for a long time than it has been known so far. At least now – and this is now your resort – it's about 20 million who's the Burgtheater in the Minus, and that's what I'm thinking: This is compared to the hypo only a promille, but it is also not very different in terms of what is going on. Now I might like to quote a few more questions that I have asked and of which I believe that they are very important to the public, in the sense of what would have been the answer. Question 125, for example: ‘What is the Protocol text on the TOP ‘Report on the Internal Review on Special Audit’’ of the Internal Control System? Well, that's just what we want to know: What did the Supervisory Board know in connection with this lack of control at the time – that was in 2012? – So there was no internal control, we know that in the meantime, but: Did the Supervisory Board know that, and did your ministry know that, for example? – We would have been interested in that. Question 185: ‘What is the Protocol text to the TOP ‘measuring catalogue’?’ We know that in 2012 a catalogue of measures was developed to improve the monetary situation at the Bundestheatern, including at Burgtheater. And obviously the Supervisory Board has discussed what has become of this catalogue of measures. We'd be interested in: What has become of the catalogue of measures? - Great silence, blanket over it, we don't know. Question 187: ‘What is the Protocol text on the TOP’ – the topic – ‘multiannual planning... 2016’. Well, that's also interesting: In 2013, where the entire Schlamassel is already known, the Supervisory Board decides on a multi-annual planning by 2016. On what financial basis? – This will probably have been known by her representative in the Bundestheater Supervisory Body, and that is why we want to know. And it's also for us to know that. Finally, Question 190 on the Court of Auditors' report follows. We need the Protocol text on the ‘Reports of the Court of Auditors’. . The Court of Auditors discovered quite a lot in 2013 and we would have liked to know what the Supervisory Board says about this Court of Auditors report. Perhaps we could have appreciated and discussed this here in Parliament accordingly. One question, however, Mr Federal Minister, is, regardless of your reasoning, that questions about the Supervisory Board protocols do not apply to us, at least wrong – at least!Use custom fonts; the others too, but at least that – namely the question 193. That's what we're asking: “What topics and questions did the Supervisory Board of Burgtheater GmbH deal with in 2014?” I would remind you that you have answered the same question about the years 2013, 2012 and 2011. So if you do not answer this question now, then the contradiction is probably blatant and obvious. Now it is not a matter of recording the minutes – we do not want to know exactly which Supervisory Board or what Supervisory Board has said – but these are – I have already been in several Supervisory Boards – already cleansed, beautiful, accepted reports, short reports, which have been discussed at all. And I believe that precisely because they are corrected and blessed by all, they are interesting to us in connection with the reprocessing of this whole complex, and it would be very important that politics here stop with this path of transparency. If we had been given timely insight into, already in connection with the efficiency analyses, we would probably have been able to prevent a lot from happening to the public, via the media, even here in Parliament. We will not let go of it and both the Presidents will continue to deal with the subject as well as the ministries and, of course, the plenary. We will continue to address questions to you, Mr Finanzminister, to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to the Federal Minister for Culture, and we will see you here again. I don't know if it's you again next time, maybe it's the Federal Chancellor, maybe it's the Minister of Culture again. We will see ourselves again, and we will not stop until we get these protocols, because they are at least at our disposal as Parliament. We have very certain control obligations. We want to fulfil these control obligations, and you cannot prevent us from doing so without being illegal. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15560	Mr Schelling spoke on a point of view. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15581	Madam President. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! The question you sent us has 196 questions that have been asked me, but these are to a considerable extent not to ask me. That's you, I think, conscious and clear. Of course, in the Ministry of Finance we do our duty to speak and answer you on all matters of execution within the scope of our competence. I comply with this obligation of information in the framework of the law. However, the limits laid down by the Federal Constitutional Legislator must also be observed. These limits exist in the relationship between the confidentiality, data protection and the right of interconnection. Furthermore, the limits of competence drawn by the Federal Ministry Act must of course be observed, and at any rate, the possibility of interconnection will end where the management powers or inconsistencies of the members of the government end. This is also the case in the context of private administration. the activities of the institutions of legal persons, such as the decisions to be taken in the independent sphere of activity of the companies. The right of interconnection therefore refers to the rights of the federal government and the possibilities of its institutions, but not to the activities of the institutions of legal persons appointed by the owner. In this context, it should not be forgotten that the control powers of the National Council - you have mentioned this yourself - are not exhausted in the parliamentary question, but this control power is also exercised in the interest of taxpayers by an institution of this House, namely the Court of Auditors, and its reports are also available for attention. The Federal Theatre Organisation Act aims to strengthen the leading role of the Bundestheater in Austrian cultural life. In the Supervisory Board of the created companies, the Federal Ministry of Finance sends one or two of the eight members respectively. The Federal Minister is not entitled to any instructions on the voting behaviour of these members, he can only be reported on the decisions taken by the Supervisory Board. So, for example, protocols on which there are no decisions, but only reports, do not even exist with me. The German Federal Ministry of Finance is therefore limited. In particular, the Federal Minister for Finance has no possibility of making available to the public the contents of the Supervisory Board meetings held for the preparation of decisions of companies. It should not be overlooked that the agents of the Bundestheater addressed here fall within the competence of the Federal Chancellor's Office and have been transferred to the Minister of Federal Affairs Dr. Josef Ostermayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15635	Mrs Hakel has spoken. – I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15657	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr Zinggl, I am glad to meet again and again on this subject. It is very exciting when I observe here how you try or how you try to collect political change by constantly repeating and questioning the legal rules. [[Abg. Moser: No, it's about the right!]] Why do I say that? – We do not stand here in Parliament for the first time and once again discuss the same issue – it is about the Supervisory Board protocols of the Burgtheater. Yes, I would also like them to be, but the law sets clear barriers here, since in this case it is also a violation of data protection and business secrecy. [[Abg. Kogler: Aha!]] [[New call of the abg. Moser.]] That is to say, a word faithful reproduction or presentation of the Supervisory Board protocols is not covered by Parliament's right of interconnection. That this is really the case, it has been checked by several bodies. It was reviewed by the Federal Ministry of Art and Culture, Constitution and the Media, by the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery and by the legislative service of Parliament. And I know that this is sometimes difficult, but you also have to accept that there are legal rules here that you have to take note of. You don't have to like that, that's right. You can also try to change that – it is also free for you to go this way, and you do it again and again – but then there is the other way to make it faster for now. On Friday the first meeting of the Court of Auditors subcommittee will take place, which has rightly been requested by you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] You are the same as I am a member of this committee. We can then also invite and question the members of the Supervisory Board – at least once from the Bundestheater-Holding – as information staff, and I hope that we will also be able to reach a transparency, a reconnaissance in the Causa Burgtheater on this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15719	The next item is the motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15740	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of the debate on setting up a committee of inquiry as a minority law, colleague Meinl-Reisinger today spoke very often of responsibility, and – Mrs Colleague, I have listened very closely to you – you have also spoken of an objective and fact-based investigation. That's where you have our full agreement! I think whatever scandals or sometimes supposed scandals we are always investigating, it has to be objective enlightenment, and at the end of the day we should be clear to all of us the lessons that we learn from the reprocessing. So it should be in the process of reworking the hypo scandal, and so it should be in the process of reworking the various very questionable processes at the Burgtheater. As far as the Burgtheater or the Bundestheater-Holding is concerned, we will do so in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee from Friday. And without wishing to presuppose the Committee: The fact that there have been procedures which, in order to express it intently, are deeply in need of information is, I believe, undisputed. In the light of the most diverse documents, press releases, inquiries and responses to questions, we ask ourselves, as an enthusiastic theatre visitor, but in the organization and financing of a theatre company, if the reader admittedly not so decorated as to whether this is a system in this country and in these companies, whether it is criminal energy or not, whether it is a failure of supervisory authorities or whether this is an unfortunate encounter of all the circumstances previously mentioned. – All of this will be to be questioned in the subcommittee from Friday on, and we hope that we will also receive appropriate answers and thus sufficient information. The question behind today's debate, however, is how we as Members come to have relevant information. What information do we get to ask the right questions as well? The right of interconnection as one of the most essential and important rights for us as Members of Parliament does not include the supervisory protocols of outsourced companies, therefore it will be a question of whether, and if so how, the right of interconnection can be extended. Here I am again with colleague Meinl-Reisinger, who spoke of responsibility: Responsibility or responsibilities must be so clear as possible, transparency both in decision-making and in implementation must be given everywhere, but especially, of course, where tax money is concerned, where tax money is in play. But, of course, responsibility is not a one-way street. It will also be about how those to whom the information is made available, in that case we as Members, deal with this information. The questions that arise concern issues such as data protection, such as how we deal with personal data, as well as data relating to business and business secrets. In this respect, there was a clarification in the Presidency, and there was also in the President's office the suggestion to examine how Members' right of convergence can be aligned with the Court of Auditors' possibilities. So I think there are good reasons here to deal with the subject further. I would, however, like to return to the subject of responsibility once again. It is clear that the relevant responsibility and political responsibility lies with the responsible Minister of Culture Dr. Ostermayer. As a Member of Parliament, we have the responsibility to taxpayers by helping to ensure appropriate use. And we all have the responsibility – and I think that must also be our concern – to restore people's confidence in politics. These include, on the one hand, complete information and, on the other, the development of strategies that make it difficult or impossible to repeat painters and scandals. We will, in any case, try to make our contribution to this in the Court of Auditors Subcommittee from Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15804	The next item is the report by Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15826	Madam President. Minister! High house! If I hear the colleague talk about responsibility, of course I can only sign it. However, one of the things you just mentioned is of course that all things have to be put on the table. That is, I think, a fundamental condition for us to be able to talk about the future. If I hear from Mrs Colleague that it may have been an unfortunate rejuvenation of circumstances, then I know where the trip will go in the matter of subcommittee, namely that one will say in the end: Well, it was just an unfortunate circumstance! – So it won't have been quite that way. On the right to inter-disciplinary law: This Kasperl Theatre, which we now experience in concrete terms at this request – we experience it more often; unfortunately, this is nothing new and we experience it in various areas, where we ask questions, but where not really something satisfying comes out – is a sad thing. We are here discussing questions of interpretation of Article 52. Of course, you can see this kind of thing, but one thing is clear: If you really want to explain, there are many ways and means to actually put things on the table, to do the same. This is less about the Minister of Finance, but of course more about the Minister of Culture, who has promised, but does not want to do so. So it makes you feel more like sand is to be spread into the eyes here, that it is better to hide here. In any case, it is clear: In this case – in this case the holding of the Bundestheater – it seems to be less about working more efficiently and continuing to do the same, but it is more about restricting or, as far as possible, restricting the right to interact with the people's representatives – in order to be precise. Interesting in the case of the Bundestheater-Holding also seems to me what Minister Ostermayer has given in an answer to a question from the colleague Meinl-Reisinger for the best, namely that the cultural resort cannot in principle be presented these Supervisory Protocols. The question then arises: Yes, who actually performs our owner's office there if they don't even care what happens in these Supervisory Board meetings? – So this is a sad thing, considering that the Bundestheater received 1 billion € in tax money from 2007 to today, 100 percent of us are financed, 100 percent in federal ownership – that is, in our property – and we do not really have a control possibility or a control right. We will start with the Subcommittee on Friday – which has already been mentioned several times – because of course we will continue to stick to it and see that we will bring more light into the dark, so do not allow it to be hidden here. A demand from us liberals is also quite clear: The holding company is abolished, the Bundestheater is reintegrated so that one has direct control. As far as the right of interconnection is concerned, I am quite amazed: Mrs Hakel spoke about it three months ago – I can remember exactly – that we need to review the right to interact so that these problems do not arise anymore. [[Abg. crochet: Yes, but I didn't say anything else now!]] – Yes, today you said you could do something, it was no longer “we” talking. [[New call of the abg. Stutter.]] We have in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure a request from us liberals, which precisely provides for this clarification of the right of interconnection, so that we can also look at the operational activities of distributed societies and that there is no such discussion. I would like to invite you to decide with us in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and we no longer have these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15874	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15896	Madam President. Minister! You, as a tax-paying citizen, as a trader, especially you as a member of the Federal Government and above all you as the Minister of Finance, as the top guard, must have an intense interest in the fact that this Parliament has full control here when it comes to the use of public funds, the taxpayers say, about the sums in which you also anchor your budget. You should, in your threefold role, interpret in any case the right to interact with Members here in a broad and thorough manner, just as the Federal Constitution provides for in Article 52, paragraph 52, which has already been referred to. 2, where it is clear to read: “Control rights... exist vis-à-vis the Federal Government and its members” – I will also read this deliberately to the President – “including in relation to business and business matters. In which the federal government with at least 50 % of its capital is “part of its parent, basic or equity”. - That's in the federal constitution! Their interpretation – that, so to speak, the protocols of supervisory councils or the information on the economic activity of outsourced undertakings, in which the Republic is dominating, are not made available to the Members – is not only contradicted by the Constitution, but also by what the Constitutional Service has set out by the opinion of Theo Öhlinger – we have it black on it! The Federal Government, the Minister or the respective Minister, has to provide answers in principle, but may justify exceptions – and this explanation of exceptions did not take place. What you wrote to us, Mr Minister, is that the desired presentation or word-based reproduction of Supervisory Board documents is not covered by Parliamentary Interplelationary Law. This is really not a reason and no exception, and we will be abstaining from the answer within the framework of the general right to interoperability here, so to speak. – That's not how it is, Minister! After all, we have various responses to the questions, in which you repeatedly hinder us with your limited understanding of the right of interconnection. We will be able to put down a series until what the Constitutional Service, what Theo Öhlinger has held, becomes real everyday life, as it stands in the federal constitution, in this Parliament, in which the former clubman and current Second President of the National Council Karlheinz has said this morning: Yes, opposition rights, control rights must be extended. He has listed them, from written and oral questions to the setting up of an investigation committee. – Please take the most priority, the simplest, most permanently effective control right, the written answer to questions, at last to the full extent of the federal constitution seriously! We now have to put in place a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors once again in order to obtain information which can then describe the operations, for example in these Supervisory Boards. We have – and this is also a weak point – in this Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, which will then roll up this whole Bundestheater-Holding-Malaise – on Friday we will start – yes, no briefing! We do not benefit from it if, as my previous speaker kindly said, we now have a subcommittee, because there are no files, no protocols, but only a report from the ministry. But what the report from the ministry will contain, we can already get together in advance. If this goes on, then there must be research committees – the strictest of all control instruments – really en suite, if you already do not fulfil in the normal area the task, the small one-time of parliamentary control in the form of requests and requests, the maintenance of the right of interpolation. This is really a control mistake already at the base, at the basics, and we no longer like that. You, Mr Finanzminister, must first and foremost ensure that we, as Members of Parliament, become effective in your sense, and also within the meaning of the Court of Auditors, which is our institution and is taking part in our work, in part also comprehensively, and look at the fact that, at last, taxpayers are used in a meaningful, reasonable and economical manner. This makes it possible for us to come to terms with it, and I think that the former Minister of Finance, Fekter, will be able to complain to you, for example, in the field of culture or other institutions. leaves the budget to increase over time. It seems that there is no need for a proper economy, because the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance will already judge it because it is necessary to maintain culture. We must stop that and ensure that it does not continue in this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15977	The next item is the report by Mr Dr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e15998	Madam President. Minister! High house! Transparency is probably one of the most important pillars of democracy at all, so I think it is one of the most important virtues of the executive, the government, to proactively inform the Members and the Sovereign here, especially when it comes to delicate areas like culture. The culture is always inclined to do so, because of its colorfulness, the fact that Machloikes are happening, that there are things about which one may not be so happy, because this is a colorful area and which is a little different from other areas in this country, which are more clearly regulated by officials and offices. In particular, it is important that the responsible persons take full, very intensive care to provide transparent information to the population and to the Parliament. And if they don't, I think that's a mistake in their duties and a failure to respect an essential virtue of members of the government. That is why, like my previous speakers, I can only point out this once again: Not only can it always be a debt of one or another, but there must be the ministers who deal with it and are responsible for these areas, to the people to go to the Sovereign, and to say exactly what happened if the suspicion exists or has already been partly proven that things have gone wrong and possibly criminal activities have also been done. That would be the first duty of a real statesman or a stateswoman! And I want you to keep this up in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16029	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16053	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister, I understand that it is also a little difficult for you to sit here, especially since you are not actually responsible for matters. It is true that we have really discussed this very often, and one reason why you are sitting here now is that we meet a wall of silence at the Minister of Culture and, as you know, send a member to the Supervisory Boards of these stage societies. Now you could have a wonderful legal discussion for hours, where I would be quite delecting. We have here an opinion by Professor Öhlinger, we have an opinion from the Constitutional Service and also one from the legislative service of this House. I understood this opinion in such a way that there is actually a right to the opinion of Professor Öhlinger. That means very much. well – and that says Öhlinger in this opinion –: It should be assumed that everything which is subject to the obligation of the Supervisory Boards to provide information to the Minister – and these are subject to your obligation to provide information – is also subject to the Federal Minister's obligation to interact. The data protection is excluded from this. As I have already said, I like to have legal discussions, I am looking forward to doing so in the ivory tower, but I would like to be precise in the debate. I would either like to hear the argument that this is not possible, because this is not covered by the inconsistency and so far the right of interconnection is not sufficient, or I do not actually want to hear in the same debate the argument that contradicts data protection or there are business secrets. I would ask that at least some kind of explanation be agreed on, why not now issue these protocols. I would like to sum up briefly why it is so important that these protocols are also available to Parliament: We have distributed theatre companies here, over it a holding company. At the beginning of this year we heard about media reports that there was a discharge from a business manager, and after that rumors made the round and have also been found in the staff of the cultural editors. At one point in Parliament, we tried to bring light into the dark, when we really hit a wall of silence. And if we – the colleague Zinggl has been doing this for years, since last year, since I was here in Parliament, and also by means of a urgent request – had not put things on the table, partly in public documents, and had demonstrated that the liquidity situation of the Burgtheater had been bad for decades, the budgetary situation was bad, the Supervisory Board did not do anything, and the managing director of the Bundestheater holding, then probably nothing would have happened here. Mr Franz, this is not about colorful cultural creators, so Gaukler out there, because I understand what you said: There are Gauklers here, but it's about people who have a commercial responsibility. Director Springer, as holding director, has a commercial responsibility that he has not complied with. And he was also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Burgtheater. We will discuss this in the Subcommittee, Mrs Colleague, but unfortunately we will not discuss the Burgtheater, and you know that too. So questions that have happened in the Supervisory Board of the Burgtheater – and as I said, it is crucial what the Director Springer has done as Chairman of the Supervisory Board there and whether he may have failed to comply with his obligation to provide information – are not going to be dealt with there. We will deal with the holding, that is good, and there is a devastating Court of Auditors report. There is currently also an audit by the Court of Auditors of the Burgtheater. That means things will come to light anyway. I think it would be good for the opposition, which has an interest in making the documents available in a transparent manner in time, so that we can warn at an early stage when things go in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16108	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:48:02]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16135	We are now coming to the brief debate on the request made by Mr Magn. Loacker, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the motion for a resolution 351/A(E) by Mr Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, a period of 10 to 10 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with 10 minutes at the disposal of the first speaker. Mr Mag. Loacker, you have the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16169	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers! In the last committee, on behalf of my group, I have tabled several requests, all of which have been rejected. Some are now under discussion, and one has already been postponed for the second time, which is the opposite, and we should have met a nerve in the majority groups because some of their exponents have already expressed themselves in the media. What exactly is that? – If someone has reached the regular pension age, that is, 65. ==References====External links== Women's age, then these persons can earn unlimited pension rights, but of course they have to make social security contributions – but all social security contributions! We must ask ourselves what logic this has, because the insurance case of old age has occurred and is therefore now covered by an old age pension, but at the same time, if they are working now, these persons must also, in addition to the pension relationship, pay pension insurance contributions again. This is almost as - not quite, but almost - as if a unemployed person had to pay unemployment insurance contributions in addition to unemployment benefits. In this context, we also need to look at the Social Insurance Adjustment Act adopted today, where red and black - not too early - have eliminated an incredible naughtiness. To date, in calculating such additional pension insurance contributions, only staff contributions have a pension-increasing effect; in the future, at least the service providers and staff contributions will have a pension-increasing effect. But I would like to give you an example, even on the basis of this new regulation: A woman aged 62 earns €700 gross at her age pension of €1,200 again. Each year, she pays a share of 1 004,50 €, together with the servicer's share of 2 234 € in pension insurance contributions, and this will now increase her pension by – seven euros! At seven euros, not even a hundred a year! That is rightly called the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, a nationally legitimate deal. You should oppose this, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, because you take the insured people out of line and thread. “Whoever works longer is supposed to have something of it,” said Peter McDonald when he was still SVA-Obmann. Now he is the Board of Directors of the main association of social security funds, now he doesn't say that anymore, now he has somehow forgotten it. But when he was still with the SVA, he was in favour of abolishing this contribution obligation for working pensioners. I would like to ask him again. The representatives of both majority groups in the Council of Seniors, the twins Khol and Blecha, who are always happy to contribute to the entertainment of the Austrian population on television, have unisono said that this has been abolished, because it is not only a financial relief for the individual but, according to Karl Blecha, “cost-neutral and also comprehensively promising”. I must admit that I would not have dared to claim the cost neutrality, but at least there is already a significant difference in the calculation: Mr Sozialminister said that if we decided on our proposal, pension insurance would amount to 130 million – on the other hand, Blecha says it would be cost-neutral. In an interview with the newspaper "Die Presse", Peter McDonald also said "cost-neutral". I'd be interested in this already, who's calculated more. I think that the calculations of the Minister for Social Affairs are courageous anyway. This is also what we see in the budget for pensions: If November and December develop in the same way as the months of January to October, we will be €600 million above the budget approach for the aid to the ASVG-pensions by the end of the year. The Minister said that the pensioners who are still working are not a small marginal group in the last Committee: There are 67 000 people in employment – 67 000! We do not yet have those who, due to the high tax burden, keep their activity black. That is 67 000 people who stand by social security. These are people who are vital – they are too young, too healthy and too active to do nothing! This fact must also be borne in mind when it comes to adapting the pension system to the increasing life expectancy and the increased health of Austrian citizenship. We need to see these people on the labour market as an opportunity and not as a burden! It is therefore not appropriate to argue with unemployment on the part of red and black, because it is not that simple that the workers on the labour market can be converted one to one. On the contrary, this is about know-how, which is available to experience, and it is mainly about those people who pursue employment at the age of 65 and 70 years of age, doing quite different activities than full-time workers at the age of 55 and 56. It is very often about activities that one does not perform in full time. This is about people who are still vital enough to pursue a regulated activity. This is not about the death penalty argument of the displacement on the labour market. [[Abg. Schwentner: Well!]] The Federal Chancellery has also recognized the potential of retired officials for the ministries. For this reason, the liaison office with the Austrian Senior Public Experts Association was established. There officials are used in peace as experts in the ministries. Skurril on this fact is still the side-by-side appearance that, when officials retire, they may immediately earn unlimited compensation for this – ASVG insured persons only from reaching the age of regular pension, until then only until the limit of low-quality. This is also a disparity between the different groups of persons employed. At any rate, to these Austrian senior public experts who are retiring to work again, we have sent a series of questions to all ministries as they handle them. Finally, advertising is also made – with tax money! – that people who are retired are now being reinvigorated into employment. We believe that this is in principle good, but then we would like to know that access is also consistently implemented linearly. If we want the people of advanced age to be still working, please let us do so with the other insurance branches in similar generosity! We want a flexible pension! If you have a flexible pension system, which always automatically adapts to the subject of insurance, then you can also save yourself complex humpels like a partial pension, then everyone can choose when to retire, when the pension funds calculated by the system are sufficient for him, and then he can decide for himself when he still wants to earn something and when not. With the knowledge of how high his pension will be, he can focus on it. In fact, this proposal is only a mosaic of many things that we still have to do in the pension area, especially when it comes to the employment of older people on the labour market. Therefore, not ad infinitum should one delay such things, but direct themselves to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16220	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16241	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this request by NEOS to abolish the pension insurance obligation in case of employment during the reference of an old-age pension is a very risky one. We will therefore not give our consent to this request for a time limit on the part of the SPÖ. Mr Loacker, if you say that you compare this almost with an unemployed person who does not pay any contributions to unemployment insurance, I say to you: Every unemployed person would be happy if he could and should pay pension insurance contributions – because that is what he does if he has a job! I see with you again and again on the topic of pensions, ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, that you go from the assumption, all people will do it up to 65 and beyond, all people have a chance for a job. But the world out there is another! There are people who can no longer be physically and healthy! There are people who, because of their professional training or their qualifications, are replaced by machines which have no chance of working in the labour market. Here always present a model and say that everyone has to do it somehow, and if he doesn't make it, he just had a bad time, but if he does, he has achieved it himself, that's not the model we imagine! [[Abg. Stroll: That's not the point!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: You need an argument! - That's not the point!]] I'll tell you: It's not about saving. You have correctly quoted the number of Mr Sozialministers, namely that € 129.53 million of contributions would no longer be made, both in the areas of ASVG and in the field of occupational social security and in that of farmers. This is what the 30,522 people in Austria are doing, who are still working in the old age pension and above the low-quality limit – that is, the essential – and who are therefore paying contributions to pension insurance. That's not the essentials at all. Nor is it the essential thing for us to say that this is a generation conflict between young and old, which may or may be discussed. We are dealing with two other aspects. First: Why is this deadline urgent? Why do we need such an action at once? We see no need for action at all. And second: We are concerned that people who have a pension and who are able to take up employment should do so. But they should make it the same conditions as those who can or will not obtain an old age pension. That's why we're actually doing it. Then: Why should they not pay contributions if they have income accordingly? We're not really talking about pushing these people out, but it's just about fairness, where you say: Anyone who has a job and whose income exceeds a certain amount of income, whether young or old, wishes to pay contributions to our social security system in old age pension or not in old age pension. Therefore, the SPÖ will not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16315	Next, Mrs Fichtinger is speaking. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16336	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewer at home! High house! I would like to refer to the NEOS resolution on the withdrawal of compulsory insurance from statutory pension insurance on the basis of employment in the pension and on the deadline until 10. A few comments were made on December. The aim of this proposal for a deadline is apparently that the Assembly of the National Council will decide on it tomorrow. I think it's a transparent party tactic maneuver. Welcome, dear NEOS! Even very young in the house, you seem a little bit old after a year with this cheap attempt to beat or switch political little money. It must be wonderful if you raise populist demands in a world where the money has been abolished, where the consolidation budget doesn't matter and you don't have to answer the consequences and don't want to. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Stroll.]] But on the matter itself. – In principle, the proposal is based on a sensible idea, namely: [[Abg. Stroll: After all!]] Those who have already reached the statutory retirement age and have a pension will no longer need pension insurance. As you have said, Mr Loacker, over 60 000 people are affected. It is to be welcomed that they want to earn something besides the pension and do so. But whoever stops thinking here, of course, has it very easy. But you have to deal with it a little more intensively and answer some questions. First: Why should these people not make their contribution in the sense of the principle of solidarity, as do all those who are in employment? You also get something for the contributions, namely the additional pension increase each year. These are not, as you have said, huge amounts. This, of course, is precisely what they deserve. But it corresponds mathematically to the amounts paid in. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Schwentner.]] If people already get a pension and earn something for it, then this group will be cheaper and, of course, preferred by the withdrawal of pension contributions. But the group in which there are problems on the labour market is particularly those who are just ahead of retirement. They are therefore disadvantaged. I think we all believe that the actual retirement age has to rise. This means that work will be longer before retirement, of course only if it allows health and the labour market. But It is precisely this group that is disadvantaged in the current situation of the labour market. And no one understands that completely. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The only thing I don't understand!]] Thirdly, it would be worth noting that: Who pays the burden of the federal budget of over €200 million each year due to the failure of the pension contributions? That is why we can only say: This proposal can only be considered within the framework of an overall package if the pension system is not to be removed from the financial balance. And that's not tomorrow. We therefore reject this deadline and want to continue to discuss the request in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16411	Next, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported to speak. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16433	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, at first glance, the request is good. However, it seems to me a little too little different, because in your request, it is so that anyone who needs something after the pension should be freed from the obligation to contribute. I would remind you that this proposal – and I have already said it in committee – would free the luxury pensioners such as Blecha, Khol, all the ex-politans such as Vranitzky and Co, who sit in various supervisory councils. It's a good idea if I relieve little pensioners. Because, unlike my previous speaker, who, I think, does not know how the system works, and who probably did not know what she read about it now, one has to see that, of course, it is unfair if people who are already in retirement still have to pay work and pension contributions, but can't do anything more. [[Objection to the ÖVP]] We will, of course, agree to the deadline, which is not a matter. We shall not, however, give our consent to the request in this text, for precisely these reasons. We would like to have differentiated this: for small pensioners yes, but not for everyone. Because we know which people sit in the Supervisory Boards, in any board and so on – all of them are affected by it. That is the main reason why we do not give this request our consent in this form. But I think that there really is something done, especially for people who have such a low pension that they often still need to go to work next to the pension. Even if they don't want to, they have to work next to the pension to get over the rounds at all. It is actually embarrassing that there are such mini-pensions and that you let these people work up to 70 or 75 years and ultimately punish them. If the previous speaker read out, that would be the major failures in the system, then I have to say: Always at the weakest the money That's the simplest solution. I know it is well known from this federal government that you get it where you can easily get it. I just think that's the wrong way. We should see that we relieve people. By the way, we should also look at the fact that our people get so good pensions that they can also live on them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also a matter of increasing pensions to half the inflation rate in recent years. That is, the impoverishment of pensioners is very high. If you know that 1.5 million pensioners are at risk of poverty and more than 300,000 pensioners are already manifestly poor, then it is not a subject on which you should read and say: Who pays for the budget loss? I think the intention is a good one. However, I do not want to agree with a request that makes this a stuffing horn for everyone. Well, I think you need to differentiate a little.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16503	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16524	Madam President. Minister! Dear spectators! I think at least in one we now agree across all parties: Those who want to work longer should also be able to work longer without having to suffer disadvantages. We agree on this. The conclusions we draw from them are different. A malice that Mr Loacker has already mentioned is that when people continue to work as pensioners, the service contributions have so far been calculated and no service contributions have been made. This is still from the era ÖVP/FPÖ and was a malignant one. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] At least this was a malice and at least that was eliminated in the last committee. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] This means that the service providers' contributions are now also included. We agreed. I can understand to a certain extent your intentions. We also believe that changes are necessary, that harmonisation is necessary and that all should be treated equally. We do, however, draw a slightly different conclusion. I think that pension insurance contributions should be equal to pension insurance contributions. He should not, as the colleague said earlier, be calculated thematically – and I do not think that he is favourable – but should be treated like all other contributions. That's not the case. That is, we should strive to do this and make changes to it. I am not quite sure that this is not going in the direction – even if you are challenging this now, Mr Loacker – that older workers who are still working on the pension, because there are no more contributions to be paid, will become cheaper workers and will therefore also use a certain displacement mechanism. I'm not sure that's not the danger, and I don't want to promote it either. I don't see it like you do. I also keep the comparison overstretched when you say: This is the case now, as if a unemployed person is paying one more time in unemployment, while receiving unemployment benefit. That's what it meant, Mr. Muchich. I do not have to explain this right now, but I think that the comparison is absolutely overstretched and not quite true; for in this case, the persons in question benefit from it and receive, even if they sometimes receive a low pension from this activity, but a pension. We know the case of a woman who has worked for 17 years and would have been able to improve her pension for a lot more than she had been able to do before or until then. That is why I do not entirely agree and would like to repeat once again and not the last time: We want a pension system for all with the same contributions, with the same benefits; so that these hundred discussions about where someone in this system is treated differently, wrong, different or unfairly are finally obsolete. That's what we're working on. That is why I cannot fully understand this, but at least to a certain extent I can't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16567	The next item is Mrs Dietrich's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16588	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that all opposition parties are now truly in agreement: We need a system, an insurance system, a pension system and an end to these infinite privileges and special treatments. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I am confident that, as we have done at the Hypo, we will be able to carry out a little bit in this area. Then: It will not be understood in Austria that a paid-in euro in the system at the end of the day means completely different amounts out of the system. I think 80 percent self-employment at ASVG, 50 percent self-employed for officials, these are conditions that we simply don't want to accept anymore. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and NEOS.]] 67,000 people continue to work in the pension. I think a part of it will continue to work because they have fun and joy in it and are privileged by having a job – you have to see it in times like this – but some of it will also work because these people do not come out with the pension. The approach of NEOS really sounds so at first listening that it makes sense – you can't figure out and get nothing out – but if I look more closely, I think we're producing a distortion of competition in the area of competition. That means if I'm an employer, then I'm not taking someone who's 64, and someone who's 66 is very good, because he'll get me cheaper. We must not allow that group that is already in retirement to be cheaper and those who are just ahead of the pension to be pushed out of competition. That is why we do not agree with your request, Mr Commissioner. So that's not your opinion. But what we can imagine very well is that someone who works longer or is still working in the pension has tax advantages that he really has an incentive to stay longer in the work process. Because it makes sense for a society to employ people as long as possible. We all know: If a person fulfils a meaningful task, he remains healthy longer, remains longer in the work process, and it makes sense for all of us as a society. In this sense, our way is: Tax incentives, see that the less tax paid, but not that he no longer pays insurance.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16655	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16676	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens on the screens and on the galleries! I would like to refer to a few of the debates that have been made. Mr Muchitsch, what are we talking about in the pension system NEOS and why is this so important to us? We are a value-based citizen movement, we have three in-depth sponsors, three key words that guide our content. On the one hand, this is love of freedom, on the other hand, self-reliance, and that is the sustainability of social, ecological and economic balance. There are still two stylistic attitudes: the authenticity and the appreciation we commit. These values also guide our actions when we look at the pension system, and of course there is sustainability, because sustainability says: I am not in any way taken into account in the Austrian pension system, gender equality is not shown! We have a big goal: to convert the pension system of Austria in such a way that it still holds for our children. I want my three daughters to be able to rely on the pension system. That's our big goal! At this point, however, we are not yet at Weitem. We know the results of the queries: 80 percent of young people say: For me, there's nothing to look like except numbers! This is not good, which undermines social cohesion and solidarity. That's why we put on different points. Yes, of course I share the concern that also the Greens share – Judith Schwentner said it –: A pension system for everyone! We need more fairness and justice. But we also need system clarity. And if we say that it is an insurance system and not a social benefit – on this point we stand: it is not a social transfer, it is an insurance benefit – then of course we should treat it that way. And if a person comes in the case of an insurance pension with his pension, it makes no sense to pay into the insurance, but then he gets out of the insurance. This affects 67,000 people. They are top representatives of the ÖVP who say that we urgently have to do something from the Leitel to the Peter McDonald. - It's not quite clear. Depending on what hat he has on, he is confused or not. – But we just want to create clarity. The people are quite right, of course, a lot of eat in good German and say: I don't understand! I would like to make a constructive, productive contribution in society and am being punished for it! You need to see and understand: This request stands for a larger subject complex, we are advocating NEOS for a new understanding of work, also for a new understanding of pension! We must make this transition between working life and pen- sion think differently than before. It doesn't make any sense for us to say: You're working until 24. April in the year x and the next day is nuts, zero, nada, we put on the lever and life is completely different! Man doesn't work like that! Man needs to be active, to be productive. Working life is also part of a society. We should not end it so abruptly and not think so abruptly, from one day to another zero or one hundred. That is why we are interested in solutions that lead to more flexibility. This request is a small request, but it stands for a new understanding in this area. The great picture that NEOS naturally wants to produce and that we operate is a flexi-pension, just as a professor called for Marin; as it demands the Economic Federation, a preliminary organisation of the ÖVP; as they have co-implemented the Social Democrats in Sweden. If we re-think working life, we rethink activity, we also think re-entering! Let us give people – we are friends of self-reliance and love of freedom – more freedom and self-reliance! Let us create a corridor between 61 and 69, where people from free parts and in the knowledge of what they find out can decide when to retire, and then let us give them the freedom to earn for it too! Other countries have implemented these solutions and are happy with them, including as social democrats. Give yourself a back in this direction! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16743	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the motion for a resolution 351/A(E) by Mr Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, a period of 10 to 10 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[16:21:02]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16783	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 12 to 18. Mrs Aubauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16807	Thank you very much, Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! I'm glad we can talk more about pensions. It is our common goal to put pensions on safe legs in the long term. The medal has two sides. On the one hand, we need long-term reforms, they are necessary, we should also discuss them. We are living God longer and should also be able to work healthy longer according to the longer life expectancy. On the other hand, older people, who are already in retirement, are very concerned about all these discussions. They're insecure. I'm asked: Do I get my pension next year? That means quite clearly, to the existing pension payments will not change, no one needs to worry. On the contrary, next year the pensions will be adjusted according to the price. 1.7 percent – that is, the total cost is paid. That was very important to me now. On the request of the NEOS concerning the age of women's pensioners: There are a number of good arguments for an earlier approximation of the retirement age of women and men. What does that mean? I can quote German pension expert Bert Rürup. He says: "The lower age of entry of women is completely incomprehensible. The disadvantage of living income is incredibly great. At retirement, the difference is 50 percent compared to men.” The expert therefore sees the early age of entry as a disadvantage for women; in the other hand, longer work would be an advantage for women. We have a very clear line on this. The Intergovernmental Agreement lays down: The actual retirement age is expected to rise to 60,1 years by 2018. This objective is to be achieved. There have long been a number of measures for this. These measures have already been implemented, such as the reform of the disability pension or the hacker scheme, reintegration, re-training. Let us see how these measures now work! 2015 will be evaluated as agreed. If it is foreseeable that we reach the goal, then we are delighted. However, if it is foreseeable that we do not reach the goal, then we want to agree on further reforms by the summer of 2016. And then we have to discuss the women's pensions. - A clear line. Longer healthy work. – There is also a good report from the labour market. And there's not a lot of good news. However, they have been since 1. In January of this year more than 83 000 people of the generation 50 plus found a job out of unemployment. That is to say, the reintegration, the re-training measures are working quite well. We put a lot of effort and a lot of money in here to get people back into jobs. There is therefore also a good news from the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16862	The next item is Mrs Dietrich's speech. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16884	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last debate, we have already discussed the merger of social security funds. And even if the government has constantly opposed the veto and if we are constantly told that we have low administrative costs, a merger is not necessary, I would like to ask the government representative very well the question: How can it be that the effort per claimant in the various insurance institutions is so different? In the railway insurance sector, the effort per insured person is €4,066 a year, in the insurance institution public servants €1 400 a year, at the farmers €1 900 and in the PVA say and write €9,887. Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time we once asked exactly how these costs come about, how these differences come about. It cannot continue to be the case that a system will receive insurance at the expense of the insured. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And one thing where all those involved or all the representatives of the opposition parties agree is the privileges. We want a fair, just, transparent system for every Austrian. And it hurts one to read in the Court of Auditors' report that nothing is happening in the Austrian National Bank. There privileges are heard, cared for, poured like a small plant. And the Court of Auditors says: There is no change, nothing is done by those responsible to eliminate these privileges. Estimated government representatives! You're required! You have responsibility! At last, watch that the National Bank is being cleaned up! Finally, look at these privileges being reduced! No one in Austria understands this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The topic of privileges probably fits very well the level of pensions among women: 890,20 € on average! 890,20 € on average! Let this break on the tongue! Compared to this: in the National Bank 545 000 € fixed board in addition per year. Ladies and gentlemen! This unfair system is the system that red and black have built in the last decades. And as an opposition party, one is required to act against it and to change this system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What is always a topic: the age of women's pensions. Women's retirement age is a difficult subject in times where 400,000 people are on the streets. It is questionable whether it is right to demand in times when many want a job in which the generation 50 plus has no job, now women are supposed to work longer. I think that's a bad decision for women. We will in no way take this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16956	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. I give it to you and set a voluntary time limit of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e16977	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Ladies and gentlemen! On the point of sustainability, on which the colleague of the NEOS has stated that this is a particular value: It's right, it's a very important value. I would like to quote in connection with the debate on pensions from a daily newspaper, namely a headline, which reads: “Social state is in the dead end – who pays the pensions tomorrow?” This is a quote and an article from a daily newspaper of 55 years ago. ==References== In March 1959, this daily reported that the state pension system was at risk of being no longer eligible for funding. – Ladies and gentlemen! Today, after 55 years, we jointly determine if a pension system is safe, then it is the state pension system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we only look at the past few years – an Austrian daily of 29. ==References== [[Abg. Kickl: Does the paper have a name?]] [[Abg. Kickl: What's her name?]] You can research, then you'll see that's right. On the subject of strengthening the second and third pillars. Ladies and gentlemen! Here it must be said very clearly that we are opposed to these pillars being strengthened by social democracy. I said that we are in favour of strengthening and strengthening the state system, because we have seen very precisely, especially in recent years and especially in the financial crisis 2007, 2008, 2009, what happened to the second and third pillars. We have seen very precisely how many colleagues have actually lost financially and where pensions have finally been reduced. I think that's been a huge problem. It is therefore not all right to ask for support here in the private sector. It is always said here that it is not a problem for colleagues and colleagues to work longer. We're supposed to create opportunities here. We should create financial, tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, we decided a few months ago that serious changes in the field of pensions would take place. For a few months, very concrete since 1. January 2014, for example, every employee and every employee must pay and work for a longer period of 24 months in the system. Until a few months ago, 45 years of contributions were sufficient to retire. Now that's no longer possible. We ultimately need 47 years, because the early retirement pension or pension after a long period of insurance, the new so-called hackler scheme, provides that you can only retire at 62 years. And if you retire at 62 years of age, you have 12.6 percent off. If you want to go to pension free and start working at 15 years of age, you need 50 years of contributions. 50 years! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who have seen a farm once from the inside know how it works today in the production process. It is actually impossible in many areas to work 50 years or 47 or 48 years. Therefore, we remain with our concern: If someone has been working for 45 years, it must be enough to be able to retire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is another point because the debate is always saying that Austria is Europe's champion as far as the low age of entry is concerned. We're not European champions! We are now, that is a current number of PVAs from today, Europe at 17. Job. On 17. We're here! Countries such as Luxembourg, Belgium, Italy, France, Poland, our neighbours Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary have a retirement age, which lies below for several months, even a year. This is the subject of retirement here in our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17052	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17074	Madam President. I'm honestly unscrupulous: 17. Put it!Unknown term type: Is it really what we want here as representatives of the Austrian National Council? 17. Put Europe in place? I don't understand. If you go out to the voters, to the people, ask them! I don't want fear. In existing pensions, no question, is not intervened. But why don't you ask the people what they think they're going to do? I don't understand. And you'll be happy with the 17th. Job. So that's really incomprehensible to me. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we have also made a number of requests in the Committee on Pensions. Why is that so important to us? – We have, and I would like to point out that today we hear clear statements from the ÖVP. The only clear announcement I've heard is to push it to the long bench. We have probably received a very alarming report from the Pension Commission only in autumn. He shows that the subsidies to pensions will double by 2033. The “good” message is, it is so far in 203 and not already 2030. That's not good news. We have to do something! The move to the long bank will not be enough. And now that Mr Muchich has brought a Taferl a few hours ago, I would also like to bring you a Taferl, namely to the existing injustices and to the fact that there is no pension harmonisation. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] What you see here are the differences between the federal states of Vienna, Tyrol and Vorarlberg and the Federal Government. The pension harmonisation that you, SPÖ and ÖVP, always praise has not taken place in many federal states. Take Vienna: There is a transitional period until 2042. This is the beam here between green and orange. In the end, he also shows the injustice that exists between the civil servants' pensions in Vienna and the federal system – injustices that you create. The Court of Auditors recommended that the pensions should be adjusted earlier. He recommended measures that would bring €350 million. 350 million €! Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are looking for the money at all ends because we need an urgent relief from taxpayers. And here we would have it, but we do not give up, no, because in Vienna the pensions, the civil servants' pensions, will be rewritten until 2042. Please explain this to an ASVG insured person outside. Just as you need to explain to an ASVG insured person why Mayor Häupl has said he will not balance anything as far as luxury pensions are concerned. We have our own regulations here in Vienna. We have no problem at all with our privileges in this city. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have to explain this to the ASVG-pensionists, especially because they have received the information about the pension account from the year 1975, and they have taken a look at it. And then tell us not to think about how to promote the second and third pillars?- Oh, my God! The leu te got a shock when they saw it. [[Intervocations at SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] – Talk to the people! Now another point on the women's pension age. I am really confused and would like a commitment or revelation of the ÖVP. I discussed it in '60 minutes' policy on women's policy last week, and I was the only representative of the political groups who said yes, we have to reconcile this earlier, and also for women's policy reasons, because we allow women to earn more in retirement. Mr Aubauer pointed out that there are good arguments for a more balanced approach, especially from a women's point of view. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Not at all!]] Mr. Schittenhelm was not for that. On the weekend, I read that Minister Kurz says very well that he wants to. I'm of the opinion, dear ÖVP: Don't move on to the long bench! I want to know what you stand for today. By the way, I would like to know the same about the Stronach team. [[Abg. Stroll: zigzag, flickflack!]] Because if I follow on Twitter that Mr Franz of the Stronach team also believes that the age of women's pensions should be adjusted earlier, but I hear from Mr Dietrich today that this is not the case, then I think you have a need for discussion within your own group. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have to do something now, and we don't get tired of stressing that. I would now like to conclude by putting forward a motion for a resolution which is also based on the fact that we have now heard a lot from the EIA. I want a revelation page today. Of course we need a pension automation. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of setting the course today if the words "sustainability" and "generational justice" are really to be of value. Dear ÖVP Members, I have read today in the presentation of your tax reform concept that it is also aimed at creating generation-friendly pension systems. So please agree to this today!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17190	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17273	Next speaker: Mr Hanger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17294	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to approach the current pension debate with two key figures, one with life expectancy and the other with the actual retirement age. I myself was born in 1968, and in my lifetime alone, life expectancy has increased by more than ten years. If this continues with life expectancy, then every second child born today will already be 100 years old. On the other hand, for many years we have no movement at the actual retirement age. In the meantime, I think it is political consensus that issues of the actual retirement age must certainly be dealt with. The fact is, however, that the discussion must be conducted very differentiatedly and that one cannot change a pension system with a break, but that there are steps necessary here that one needs to take very differentiatedly, and of course many aspects also need to be taken into account. If we ask people to retire later, it is, I believe, the most important thing that they are healthy. We can't ask people to work longer, if they've worked on construction for many decades and are not able to work any more in health – that's what you have to take into account. Secondly, we also need to look very closely at the employment rate of over 55-year-olds. I am more critical and say that we are not well placed here in the European comparison. In my view, this requires not only legal standardisation, but also incentive systems. I think it would be incredibly important to give people positive incentives to work longer. There are different models and bonus systems. The topic of education and training is a very important aspect. Older employees, too, must constantly qualify because the demands at the workplace are increasing. It has already been mentioned that we need a more flexible transition from working life to retirement: Sub-pension or sliding board are the right arguments here. We need a flattening of the life's income curve – this is an archival requirement. Of course, older workers are tending to be pushed out of the labour market because they also cause higher costs. Many measures are contained in the government programme and, of course, the government and the government parties are measured to see whether the actual retirement age is increasing step by step. I also have very pragmatic access to the harmonisation of pension systems. Of course, it makes sense to harmonise pension systems. Much has already happened in the past. Here, however, it also needs step-by-step solutions. And it is always very important to have people in mind who are in these systems, because for these people we are also making politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17342	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17364	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As economic spokesperson of the SPÖ, excused by the FPÖ – that is not a Freud’s promise – I can guarantee that – I would like to speak on the subject of the harmonisation of social security funds and the single pension system – these are the requests of points 18 and 15 of the agenda – and to try to establish a connex to the government’s tax reform plans. [[Rejoicing]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This connex exists, of course, in so far as we are the only party demanding a reduction in small and medium-sized incomes, i.e. more net of gross income, in particular as regards wage tax, but also as regards social security contributions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In contrast to the government parties, we can also show ways in which such relief can and will work without introducing new taxes. We just have to stop throwing out tax money. It is pointless in the sense that no additional benefit is given to the relevant stakeholders. I will then give you a few examples, especially in this context, of the merger of social security funds. The government parties, on the other hand, want to refinance this tax reform only with tax increases. So you take something out of the left pocket and put it in the right pocket without solving a single structural problem. So we have a problem with expenditure. Where, in concrete terms, do we have the expenditure problem? – We have the huge sector of funding, where there are dozens of studies and studies on where billions of euros would be saved. We have the problem of inefficient federalism, the problem of 22 social security institutions – I am now on the subject. We have the problem that many companies with federal and municipal participation have to finally be re-structured, and we have, in the course of the day, the problem of the chamber system, which is based on a compulsory membership. [[Call:]] All these problems are not addressed. Why aren't they being approached? There would be billions to raise! – They are therefore not addressed because these are the brotherly divided parallel kingdoms and princes of power and the privileges of SPÖ and ÖVP. They will not give up on this power and on these privileges as long as they have over 50 percent together. Why should they? It is much easier to get people into the pockets even deeper and to spend this money – and more – unchanged with full hands. The Austrian social security system has 22 social security funds. These are 22 principals for privileged officials of ÖVP and SPÖ. Not for nothing, the proportion of special pensioners is disproportionately high in these areas. The structure of the chamber requires an indirect ordering mechanism, which means that there is no direct possibility of co-determination between the social insurers concerned. The whole system is no longer expensive, inefficient and organizational. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We call for a fundamental renewal and improvement of this whole system, in particular uniform service catalogues – which are the real problem of inefficiency – and for a coordination of primary, secondary and tertiary services, which has not yet been achieved. The integration into a single institution would be necessary in a system. We can discuss whether to have one or three carriers – one for the unself-employed, one for the self-employed and one for the public service. You can discuss this. This is, for example, a proposal made by the Chamber of Economic Trustees for years. It calls for the creation of slender and efficient structures, the saving of senseless expenditure. The OECD estimates that this could save about 10 percent. That's where we move in an area of €2 to €2.5 billion. So so much for the counter-financing of the liberal tax reduction model. That's just a building block. I'm going to go into more building blocks today and tomorrow. Finally, a question to the round. I have already asked the question in the Financial Committee, and it has also been answered to me. The facts are as follows: The average pension in the Austrian National Bank is €87 800 per year, the average pension for officials is €37 200 per year, the average pension for ASVG-pensionists is approximately €15 000 per year. My question I asked: You think that's fair? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Mr Krainer answered the question with a word in the Financial Committee: No, no, no, Then I ask you to: Do something about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17433	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. I'll set you up for four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17455	Madam President. Mr. Minister! A number of requests have already been made and a lot has already been said about the age of women's retirement age of colleague Meinl-Reisinger. At the beginning of the debate, Mr Muchitsch said that the first pillar was the only safe pillar. – Let’s see how the replacement rates, which have developed gross replacement rates for pensions in the first pillar. If a person, for example, a man, earns a maximum contribution, retired in 1980 after 40 years of contribution at 62 years of age, he received 75 percent of the last consideration. If he goes to the current pension right after 2015 in pension, he will receive only more than 45 percent of the last cover with the same insurance course. And that's what you're supposed to say: The first pillar is the only safe one, and that will always be because it has always been that way!? – I don't think so! That is why we call for strengthening the second and third pillars. And we demand that every worker should pay one-fifth of his income tax-free in an old age pension, as politicians may, as all national councillors may, as mayors may, and many other politicians. After I said this in the Committee, Mr Vogl said to me: Now let us have this privilege, this last privilege that we politicians still have! – I’m only right about the vaccine because it’s not about protecting political privileges, it’s about the same right for everyone. And if politicians are allowed to deposit one-fifth of their relationship into an entirely “evil” capital-covered pension scheme, please the normal mortal workers who want to do so will be allowed to pay voluntary, even one-fifth of their relationship, in this “evil” capital-covered pension scheme if they want it. And those who want to rely fully on the state are supposed to do so. We demand, because we do not trust you with red and black, a constitutional security, so that those who have been in the second and third columns do not later experience a reduction in the first pillar, because the Republic then says to them: You've taken such a great deal of care, now we're cutting you off your state pension! We do not know you and therefore we do not trust you and demand this constitutional protection. Mr Schwentner meant that the capital-covered provision was a problem, because in 2008 everything collapsed. – Please, the Austrian pension funds have averaged 13 percent in the 2008 disaster year. That's not a collapse, and that's now more than it's been picked up, they've all been clear in the plus for a long time and they're writing four, five and eight percent yields every year. And we stand at the Austrian pension funds at the end of October at a plus of about 5 percent. So there can be no talk of a collapse. It is not possible to imagine that people are responding to the “clumps risk” of Austria; they must be given the freedom to spread their risk even in a capitalised provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17506	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. 2 minutes of voluntary limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17527	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Strengthening the second and third pillars in the pension system – top command, ladies and gentlemen, it must be to get the first pillar! It can't be that the many diligent people in our country are supposed to pay taxes and taxes and burn like a luster and then make business or private provision. What money are they supposed to take private care? The many diligent people in Austria can almost no longer afford life because everything is already so expensive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How are they supposed to use a private pension scheme? The second and third pillars in the current form – and here I am the opinion of our Herbert Kickl – are nothing but a game ball for insurance and banking. Our highest commandment, ladies and gentlemen, must be: The column must be strengthened and preserved. [[Abg. Christ: Perfect!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17576	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17597	Madam President. Minister! High house! The FPÖ demands harmonisation of the social security system – Mr Kickl has already done so, and we have already heard the arguments of Dr. Kassinger. Each insured person shall receive the same benefits for the same contributions. This sounds very reasonable, and this can only be realized in a system that is harmonised, otherwise we would have to move from compulsory insurance to an insurance obligation in order to create the corresponding competition. That is, a combination is the logical consequence of this demand, which we also support, although we are not quite clear about the path of the FPÖ, but this should not prevent us from doing so. The FPÖ is also right to assemble the lack of co-determination within social security schemes. And this co-determination deficit also goes beyond the organizational culture of these social security institutions and is reflected in daily administration. In this context, I would like to point out once again the point of the GPLA tests which I have recently carried out, which is that self-employed people are being requalified to unself-employed persons over their heads. Entrepreneurs who have already paid their taxes will, as it were, become self-employed. And the companies that are clients have to pay the contributions de facto a second time. This presents these companies in part existential demands and reflects nothing other than a hidden fight of social insurance companies in this area. Harmonization of social security institutions could also end this hidden fight. But this, of course, takes too long for the affected EPCs and for the self-employed, over whose heads it is decided. They can't wait that long. We have recently suggested a quick solution to this problem in the form of a conciliation point. This problem is known within the Ministry of Finance. There is a regulation of the Federal Minister for Finance on the final meeting of social security audits and these final meetings take place without consulting those concerned. We want to encourage those concerned to get a party position. This change of course also needs a clear framework and appropriate legal remedies. We therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17664	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17731	Next speaker: Ms. Club Chairman Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17752	Madam President. Just a short word in the direction of my esteemed colleagues from the NEOS. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, of course we have a clear line on what women's policy is, and in particular the retirement age as a whole. [[Abg. Rädler: Zickzack is also a line!]] We all know that we are more healthy and are getting older, thanks to God. That means, of course, you have to look at reality in the long term and work longer, because otherwise it is purely demographically not calculated in our pension system at all. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] But what is not going on now is to require that women should work longer if we have not created the framework conditions that the economy works and that jobs are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17792	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17813	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Since a few questions were raised to me, it is important for me to point out two or three things which the Federal Government considers important in particular in pension law. The first is: We want safe pensions. People can rely on the state pension. Secondly, Mrs Aubauer pointed out clearly: We want people to be sure that their pensions are not devalued. There will also be a reasonable pension increase – there has always been in Austria. The third thing is: It is also about protecting trust for those people who are long-term insured. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this House, with two-thirds majority, has set the retirement age for women. This is about protecting trust, it must be observed. With two-thirds majority, this is clearly said. For those Members who do not know: There is an application principle in the pension. If some women think that they do not have to retire when they reach the statutory retirement age, but later, she can make a request. This will be done if working conditions are so good that further working hours or retirement periods are still needed. There's a clear position. Fourthly, I would like to point out that it is important to strengthen the first pillar. I know many people – and this is also the majority in Austria – who would like to have an operating pension, the so-called second pillar. But it is simply not available to the majority of the population, because the businesses do not give it to people, and as long as this is not the case, people – I say that quite clearly – rely on the first pillar. And the Federal Government will do all it can to ensure that this is the care with which people can live well.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e17854	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I cannot see a wish for a final word of reporting. That is why we come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 422 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 423 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 424 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Debates of the European Parliament Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on pension automation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 425 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 426 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I agree with the motion for a resolution 774/A to the Committee on Health. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 427 of the supplements. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I accept Amendment No 472/A to the Constitutional Committee. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 428 of the supplements. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Debates of the European Parliament Alm, colleagues and colleagues concerning the party position of interested parties to a changeover at the Conciliation Body in the main association of social security institutions. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[17:05:05]] 19. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion 794/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, August Wöginger, Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Notary Insurance Act 1972 (16). Novelle to the NVG 1972) (429 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18061	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. This is the only word I have, so I would ask you to stay in the room because a vote will be taken immediately. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18094	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary! The notaries regulate their retirement provision in the Notary Insurance Act. They have a completely autonomous system. They are a solidarity and self-management society, because, of course, they finance their system themselves. It is a well-functioning system, the insured also like it and feel comfortable in it. There is now a five-party proposal because numerous adaptations are necessary. In recent years, there have been many changes concerning the structure and the higher lifetime. The actual retirement age is now 68,5 years for the notaries. The statutory retirement age, which was decided in 2006, is 70 years. In the innovation now to be decided, it is mainly about reducing the early retirement pension from 67 years to 65 years. This is due to a rejuvenation in the notarial circle. The reduction was particularly desired by the women whose men already retire with 65. You now also have the opportunity to go with 65 – of course with supplements. With the early age pension of 65, the reductions are to be 24 per cent and no longer, as before, 14.4 per cent. Only in the case of incapacity for work the 14.4 percent remain preserved. We agree with this amendment, and it is very welcome, of course, in this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18132	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 429 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. [[17:08:35]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (323b._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Commercial Code 1994 and the Banking Act (403 d.b.) 21. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (273 e.g._Other Organiser Federal law amending the law on measures and eich (404 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (272 e.g._Other Organiser Transitional Agreements for an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Party to Central Africa, of the other part (405 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18202	We now come to points 20 to 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18229	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall start with the point that we are not going to support today, and that is the transitional agreement for an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central African Party, of the other part. The reason why we do not agree is the deep conviction that this agreement in this form will adversely affect the countries concerned in Africa in the medium term. We are convinced that we need fair and social conditions in global trade in order to achieve progress here for all parties involved. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The second item on the agenda, which is now being negotiated under one, is the government proposal for a federal law amending the Commercial Code 1994 and the Banking Act. This is about the establishment of the GISA commercial information system and the centralisation of the commercial registers, which we welcome and will support in this form, because we believe that this is an important step towards facilitating this type of business. That is why this finds our support, as well as the revision of the law of measurement and sequencing. We will support these too. Nevertheless, we consider these two points to be small steps in the right direction. The large construction sites remain. The trade order is still a millstone for one-person companies and for small and medium-sized enterprises. At last, there must be a general shattering. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] Similarly, it is necessary to actually advance the principle of the one-stop shop and actually implement a simplification of the tax system. And since in recent weeks and months the ÖVP has always been talking about an ecological and social market economy, it is calling on to take the appropriate steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] Of course, an advanced, modern economy also needs environmental and social guidelines. And that's a long time overdue. After the report that Austria will pay 25 million dollars in the Green Climate Fund, I quote here the following figures: From Germany comes 1 billion dollars, from Switzerland 100 million, from Sweden 580 million dollars. I can only say that the contribution of Austria is lean, and a contribution at a reasonable level is long overdue.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18297	I call Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18320	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the entrepreneurs and the businesses in Austria are the backbone of society, and they need enough room to manage properly. When we look at the surveys, we know that the companies on the one hand suffer very much from bureaucracy, on the other hand, some measures and financial problems on the other. But with these decisions we are taking today, we are going in the right direction again. It is precisely this commercial information system GISA that makes it easier for us to set up a business and set up measures to meet entrepreneurs. In recent times, we have already made some progress in reducing red tape, whether it is the facilitation of working time records or the reduction of officials. We have now taken an important step forward with this new commercial information system. The second very important step is the improvements in the law of measurement and eich. Here entrepreneurs will really save money in the next few years. In detail this is 41 million € per year, in the next five years about 200 million €. Because of the state of modern technology, it is no longer necessary to carry out the examinations as before, but they can be made more efficient in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these are important steps in the right direction. And these are very important for entrepreneurs, for the location Austria and, of course, for the maintenance of jobs. Since this law is being passed today, we need the following request because of an editorial correction: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, with these editorial corrections, which were probably not so spectacular now, two measures have been adopted which are very important. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's right! Little spectacular, little spectacular!]] On the list of red tape, these are again important points. Successful is who implements, and we are.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18390	The amendment tabled by Mr Haubner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18414	Mr President. Federal Minister! The new BusinessInformation System Austria, called GISA, saves business costs and facilitates business. I am pleased that the plans to reduce bureaucracy in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have also received broad approval from the opposition. The new business register information system replaces the current set of federal, country and urban registers with a new, nationally uniform solution. This will significantly reduce the burden on businesses, but also on public authorities. The new uniform commercial register therefore brings more performance at less costs. I see this legislative change as part of the urgently needed administrative reform, which can only be implemented gradually. The advantages of a central commercial register are as follows: The new information system implements a nationally uniform solution with up-to-date and complete data. A single electronic trade application will be possible in the future, and there will be a balance between data. In other words: Fewer documents and notes will be necessary in the future, because company book extracts and notification confirmations no longer need to be collected themselves, but are available to the commercial administration at the push of a button. And finally, the implementation of the necessary eGovernment requirements will be made possible, such as the accessibility that is especially dear to me personally. This government is constantly working on improving and slimming the administration, step by step. This distinguishes us from dreams such as the demand of NEOS for the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chambers of Commerce. Dear Mr Schellhorn of the NEOS! For years you have represented the interests of the hotel industry in the Austrian Hotelier Association. You need to know exactly how important interest groups such as the Chamber of Commerce are. [[Abg. Stroll: This is a voluntary representation...!]] Not everyone has a billionaire like Hazelsteiner sitting in the house, otherwise NEOS would also protect the smaller companies, but you operate lobbying for the big ones, because nothing else means your demand. I would like to stress in particular: Clear rules make sense. A clear representation of interests makes sense, and small reforms like those of the trade register make sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18449	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18470	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! There are now some legislative initiatives to debate which we discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy last week. We will also agree with the legislative initiatives. Mr Deimek will make a very specific contribution to the amendment of the Rules of Trade and the Banking Act. On the other hand, I would also like to take the opportunity to say that it is a pity that we cannot discuss the SME report, which was also discussed in the Committee. However, I would like to say a little bit about the Austrian economic policy of the Federal Government, which must be allowed at this point and is also important accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, there are massive problems with economic policy, especially with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. I would like you to receive a very recent article from the “Presse” of 4. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the The heading states that the ‘job engine is growing in the middle class’. Mr Minister – and you know that very well – there is the Julius Raab Foundation, which is close to the ÖVP. There is the so-called medium-sized atlas. In this medium-sized atlas, too, it has been found that especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are our backbone in Austrian economic policy, have problems. Of course, we need to point out here what are the major problems of these small and medium-sized enterprises. On the one hand, this is the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. These are, on the other hand, the tax burden and the keyword “low-cost” where according to the Federal Government, the valley sole – the original quote Peter Haubner – has gone through. [[Abg. Haubner: Trending!]] We believe that the additional wage costs need to be significantly reduced so that smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurship can breathe through. She suffers from bureaucracy and also from a shortage of skilled workers. Because of the lack of skilled workers to cope with more immigration, that is the wrong step from our point of view. We need to be quick to address the shortage of skilled workers through training and education initiatives of young people, so that SMEs no longer suffer from this shortage of skilled workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister! We would ask you to perhaps consider a new medium-sized or economic package. There are problems. These problems are actively addressed, and there is no way to go.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18519	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18540	Mr President. Estimated Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister! I hope Mrs Ecker is still here when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce. I also explain to you the difference between a compulsory representation and a voluntary representation of interests such as the Austrian Hoteliers' Association. [[Abg. Gisela Wurm: The Master Teacher!]] It'll take a little longer. Nevertheless: I am now referring to GISA, the commercial information system that we think is right, which we will also support. It's a small step, you have to say, you're talking about 40 million €. With 320 000 companies, this is 12 € per month, i.e. two sausages. The entrepreneur doesn't have much of that now. I think it's a lot more. If we talk about it, then, dear Peter Haubner, we should also talk about what is happening in this country and where we should address the real reforms. You have also submitted a request, but if I tell you that a Vienna entrepreneur is opening a business, the next day it will be closed again because the office cannot decide whether there is a step or a step, and if the business has been closed for four weeks, then the real problem is. This is not just a simplification. [[Call the ÖVP:Salzburg!]] We can also talk about problems in Salzburg or somewhere else, but I also do not see a duty to represent the interests that are taking place in order to ensure that they are finally under way and that the major reforms are finally addressed. If in Carinthia an entrepreneur builds a hall, he needs the shade by trees of ten centimeters in diameter for the parking lot there, I ask: Where's that going? – Businesses are disabled and not only charged with 12 € or two sausages per month. These are bread and games that doesn't interest any entrepreneur in this respect. There you can shake your head. The problem has also never been dealt with whether anyone needs only a commercial license if he wants to be a men's tailor and women's tailor, or if he wants to do pedicure and manicure. There you still need different business certificates such as the gardener and florists. All this is not going to be done. Do you know who's sorry? – I am sorry for the 400 000 unemployed, no one has talked about them today. They give ÖVP and SPÖ a “fine” Christmas gift. You don't have a job. You are hindering the reforms with this standstill, because you are only about small and small and not about big throws. You're blocking jobs, you're hindering the big throw. I am sorry about these people – given what you have done in the last ten years!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18590	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18611	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Above all, on behalf of Mr Obernosterer, I can warmly welcome the hundred Carinthian visitors to the gallery. [[General condolences.]] As we have recently seen from the SME report, there are 21 000 new entrants, 7 000 company handovers and a large number of changes in existing businesses each year in Austria, whether in terms of commercial rights, location relocations, business openings and changes in management. All these companies – and this is not a small thing, Mr. Schellhorn – will benefit from the new electronic business register system. This saves time at first – and time is known to the entrepreneur money, because at that time he can perform acquisition activities or other office work. These reliefs amounting to € 40 million are not small, especially as they are also ensured by this united trade procedure to regulate access to the profession. This shows that our Ministry of Economic Affairs is committed to reducing bureaucratic obstacles. GISA is both debureaucratisation and administrative reform, as this federal solution leads to a savings potential in the management of € 650 000. In addition, the data quality is increased by this automatic comparison with other registers. Summa summarum is an important, right step for the economic location and for competitiveness. Further steps will follow, you can rely on them. Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, and above all all good for your birthday today!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18660	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18681	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, even from my side all the best for my birthday! Good luck in the interests of Austria, the population! I will devote myself to Agenda item 22, to the EU Transition Agreement with Cameroon – with that in a completely different world. Many rightly ask the question: Who benefits from this agreement? Who does it benefit? What is the goal? Is the EU agreement for people there or for people in Europe? Does it help the regional economy in Europe or in Africa or only the multis and international groups? – It is a transitional agreement until a comprehensive agreement is reached with the entire Central African region, and it regulates access to the EU market and support for development cooperation. This EU agreement is being discussed and voted here in the Austrian Parliament and in all the national parliaments of the EU Member States. This is extremely important in terms of democracy. On the facts: Cameroon has 22 million inhabitants, Austria has contributed to the improvement of the infrastructure. For almost ten years, the People's Republic of China has been very active in Cameroon. The most important export products are oil, wood, cocoa and coffee. What is very worrying about us and what we cannot imagine is life expectancy. In Cameroon it is 54 years old, in the neighbouring country Central African Union at less than 50 years old, exactly at 49,5 years old, in Angola at 51 years old. This shows what it really looks like in this region. Not just today, 10th. December, the International Human Rights Day is about strengthening democracy, fair trade and social human rights. The established evaluation and review of the objective of sustainable development, food security, sustainable regional development, the strengthening of the environment and labour standards are the reasons why we agree to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18718	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18740	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In my speech, I focus on the novels of the law of measurement and squirrel. The three measures I would like to draw out are an example of how to save money, both for consumers and for companies affected by it, by means of well-informed and well-thought-out small amounts, that is to say, the interoperability components in the railway sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] By avoiding double checks, very many small costs for counterfeiting can be saved in the railway sector. This is not necessary and it is good if it is stopped. Or the measure to ensure the provision of information: The relevant certificates and documents cannot be issued every time the examiner is checked, verified or verified and different information is not available. Another measure is that, in recent times, it must be possible – much more important and necessary – for test devices that have electronics in addition to the test mechanics – that is, a software process – that the measuring software will experience an update, be optimised, without the need for an expansion of the measuring equipment, and thus would result in additional costs for the customer. This law will now make it possible. The whole area concerned, i.e. directly related to citizens, were electricity, gas, water and heat energy measurements. All of this will be possible in the future without additional expansion, but directly on-site via recordings, and thus we can save people a lot of measuring costs, which are constantly being hit. That is why we will vote in favour of this law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, allow me a word on the transitional agreement with Cameroon – as mentioned by my previous speaker, Kirchgatterer – because economy, foreign policy and so on is such an overwhelming issue. There is already a certain responsibility for the continent of Africa. You can't say: We live here in Europe, and we don't care what happens down there. The migration flows and everything that is affected are of interest to us to the Most High. We therefore welcome this agreement, which in this case, under quotations, is “only” a trade agreement – that is, it does not concern services – but in total it also shows that we Europeans are responsible for this continent. There, economic well-being must also be pursued consistently. I say it very consciously at this point: This must not happen in the same way as China does, because what China is currently doing in Africa is late colonialism of the worst kind, and we as Europeans should actually be gone! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18797	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18818	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is decided here today are three points, with the first two touching the area of bureaucracy and administration in the broadest sense. I can predict that, as far as the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is concerned, what Mr Schellhorn and others have said is generally right, but not because the framework conditions have now been completely misdeveloped, but because there is an economic crisis. Unfortunately, this economic crisis has also had an impact on the medium-sized and small-sized enterprises, i.e.: The crisis is also noticeable there, and administrative and bureaucratic circumstances that no one wants may be felt to a greater extent than they have previously been perceived by the companies. In the context of this, we are strengthening efforts to step up debureaucratisation, and I believe that the two main issues, namely the GISA system, the Trade Information System Austria, and improvements in law and law, are a major factor in facilitating this. That the first point and the new development are sometimes so small is what I think is wrong. This is a huge progress, and it has extensive efforts between the individual entities – which were affected, for example, in the area, city, country, city and city capitals and district capitals – provided. Instead of the 14 decentralized commercial registers, there is now a single federal solution. This is once the system advantage, which for the entrepreneur means that he can now electronically make the commercial application and is no longer forced to go to the local authority. This doesn't sound so important, but it's important to look at the cost savings. According to a result of SME Research Austria, there were companies that had a time span of about twelve hours, which are now saved. So instead of 32 hours 20 hours, that's not little. Mr Schellhorn, your example of calculation was not quite correct, with: The sausage cream is estimated at 6 €, this is probably the case with you in Salzburg in the hotel area, with us in the Mühlviertel it is a little cheaper. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] If one calculates it, for the entrepreneur there is much more savings than it has been calculated, and I find €30 million interesting as a total. For whom, above all? – Of course for business founders. Now, however, the project is not only focused on business founders, but also benefits the individual entrepreneur who now makes a new manager's registration, a change of location or other. I hope that everyone here in the National Council can also agree with the new regulation. I see it as an essential saving, which also brings benefits to the authorities. What Mr Deimek has referred to regarding legislation on measures and rules, I therefore do not need to carry out in detail. I join this fully in content, because it is right that you can achieve great effects with very sharp, right considerations and with small changes. We strive to achieve this also in other areas, but essentially, the background is that by changing the time limits you can easily achieve cost benefits. In the specific case, by the legal regulation the measurement systems in the railway sector, which have been implicitly presented, are the savings of about one million euros. There is also a follow-up regulation on the rules governing electricity meters in consideration. It is not yet in the National Council, but it will result in cost savings of € 40 million. There is, as it were, a whole chain on the road, which is actually very positive. Thirdly, we have something out of the area of bureaucracy, which is the question of this trade agreement with Cameroon, a transitional agreement. In the final effect, Cameroon provides benefits towards the EU. I believe that the responsibility we have towards Africa has also been raised by Mr Kirchgatterer. Such an agreement is particularly useful for the African and less European Union countries. That is why I hope you can support it accordingly. In this sense: I hope that you will be able to agree to further regulations concerning the fight against bureaucracy and the simplification of the administration of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are trying to find further simplifications and then present them for decision-making. This should bring small and medium-sized enterprises closer to entrepreneurship per se, i.e. the core of the entrepreneurship task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18888	Mr El Habbassi has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18909	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is the task of policy to create rules to regulate co-existence, including economic. But I believe that our task is also to ensure that regulations are useful and that we are looking for ways to make the state and all the regulations that we require more efficient. We should also make this simple and unbureaucratic for all those involved where there is contact with authorities. In Austria, Mr Höbart, we have referred to the SME report - 314,000 small and medium-sized enterprises with 1.9 million employees. Since 2008, precisely these companies have created 77 000 additional jobs. And it is true, unfortunately, we have about 400,000 unemployed in Austria, but we also have top employment in that country. That is also to be mentioned in this case. I believe that this is why it is our task to give these small and medium-sized enterprises as much freedom as possible, to give them the opportunity to start companies as quickly as possible, to register a business as quickly as possible, as unbureaucratically as possible, so that they can then concentrate on their task of serving their core business and then create jobs in this sense. In other words, any de-bureaucratisation we make here helps in the final effect of the economy and then in the wider sense also helps the labour market. And in the final effect more people get a job. That, I think, must be our goal. That is the intention of this approach. In this sense, the government has recognized the problem and solved the problem. It has already been mentioned several times, with the commercial information system 14 decentralized commercial registers have been summarized. This makes it possible to do everything from home as quickly and unbureaucratically as possible, and on the other hand, you have saved money in the administration. This is always what is required, and that is exactly what is being done here. In the final effect, the changes in the law of measurement and sequencing are also used to simplify it and to make it possible. I think that should be our intention. I therefore ask all of you to support this and, even if there is still much to do, to believe that work is being done to remove precisely these bureaucratic obstacles. Step by step, we will work together with your help and support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18955	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e18977	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, today's legislative proposal is certainly an important step, especially in the sense of administrative reform. But, we've heard it today, of course, it's just a small step, a small step in the right direction. Especially – and this is important to me – the one-person companies still suffer very much from bureaucracy. I would like to give you an example: The Advertising Section employs 60 percent of one-person companies. I myself was once a one-person company and had the same problems. I believe that there must certainly be a reconception of the section, because no one needs 14 individual professional groups each with a commercial license. That's no longer the reality. Leave You're telling me an example: A graphic artist registers with the section and pays for the business license. If his graphic is shown as an online advertising, he needs a new commercial license and pays for it again. If this graphic is shown as a poster, it needs a new commercial license and pays for it again. If the poster is filed, he gets an agency commission, a new commercial license, pays for it again. Is that modern? – Yes, that’s certainly not modern! [[Abg. Lightenecker: Of course not!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] – And yes, there is a need for an overall reform. It is certainly necessary to have a comprehensive reform here. I am also in favour of the fact that we are talking about this again at expert level in Parliament. I am not of the opinion that we need our own Commission, which would mean red tape again, but I am in favour of our Members in Parliament talking about it at expert level. I say an example: In the last legislative period, we have carried out a liberalisation in the trade order of photography. It wasn't a easy step. I remember, there was a big resistance in the beginning. But at the end of the day, the photographers were happy at first and the quality in this industry has also been improved. All this is important to me to mention that there must also be exceptions. When it comes to trade, where body and life could be at risk, for example installers, or bakers, where hygiene is important, one must of course continue to observe the rules – of course with special attention to the teaching professions. I don't want to question them all. The abolition of restrictions on access can, of course, also lead to a loss of quality. That's what you have to pay attention to. This can also be seen in other countries, where there is a liberal trade order, where quality is often lacking, price dumping happens and no quality competition takes place. But precisely these points should also be discussed at this expert group level.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19019	Preliminary word reference to the following: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19041	Mr President. Estimated Mr. Federal Minister and Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Before: I think it is quite strange and also a pity that Mr Schellhorn makes these two laws or novels, which we adopt today, so low and expects units such as sausages. After all, this is about big sums. That is what the Federal Minister has already mentioned. On the one hand, it is €30 million at the GISA and at least €40 million in the Eichgesetz, which is saved per year. With “man”, I mean companies and, of course, consumers or customers. In total, this is €350 million over 5 years – a very large sum, a considerable sum that is saved from the economy, and in the course of the process, it has already been worked out, so that jobs can be secured, jobs created. This is all the more important, especially now, at this time of a economic imbalance that we still have. I believed you agreed, but I can't put your word in order anymore. Many points have already been made regarding the law on measures and eich. There has, of course, also been a certain preliminary performance. For the expected introduction of the smart meters, we have decided in this sense particularly important changes. The two laws, which have also been mentioned, lead to substantial simplifications and simplifications, and things are made faster. This is also a task that we have to fulfil and which we also want to fulfil. This has been recognised by the Federal Government in good time and taken the right steps. I invite you once again to accept these laws and also the agreement. But I'm glad too, it's today the 10. December – it has also been mentioned, Mr Federal Minister, you know what is going to happen – I can congratulate you and my colleague Beatrix Karl. The 10th. December seems to be a good day, now we are third to celebrate today's birthday. And it's a good day because we also presented our tax concept. – Congratulations once again!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19092	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the wish for a final word from the rapporteur. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on the item on the agenda 20: Draft Federal Act amending the Commercial Code and the Banking Act into 403 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr Matznetter, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Haubner, Mr Matznetter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Rule. 1 and Art. 2 introduced. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading, too, for a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The vote on agenda item 21 will be taken at the next voting time. Draft federal law, which amends the law on measures, including title and entry into 273 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Transitional Agreements for an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Party to Central Africa, of the other part, in 272 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[17:50:56]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on motion 707/A(E) for a resolution by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues, on the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chambers of Commerce (406 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19211	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Kassinger has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19239	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! It is good that this request was dealt with in the Committee and not, as so many requests have been postponed, that is, by the way, put into the drawer. This gives me the opportunity here in plenary to explain clearly and clearly the position of the FPÖ and to remove misunderstandings. Two clarifications at the outset: It is not a question of abolishing representations per se, whether they are chambers or not. That's important! Interest representatives are important and correct. It is only about the abolition of compulsory membership, i.e. compulsory membership. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second clarification: Everything I say here, of course, according to the agenda now only the Chamber of Commerce, “only” under quotation marks, applies not only to the Chamber of Commerce, but also to all chambers, especially the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Agriculture, according to the appropriate procedure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Once again, it is clear that: We liberals unreservedly reject a forced membership in chambers! – I will also explain why we do so. Chambers, Chambers of Commerce with Forced Membership are a model of expiry throughout Europe. There is only more in seven out of 28 European countries the principle of forced membership. The Spanish abolished this in 2010, the Slovenians in 2006. - First reason. Second reason: The compulsory membership makes chambers an important instrument of power and privileges; for the ÖVP in the area of the Economic Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, and for the SPÖ in the Chamber of Workers. I have already spoken of parallel kingdoms, parallel princes. We have another example of such a parallel kingdom. Thirdly, a compulsory membership is in principle contrary to the free and self-determined understanding of entrepreneurship. Fourthly, the contributions, compared to the perceived subjective benefits of companies, burdened companies with far too high a cost. That is why we call for the reduction of the corresponding Chamber of Commerce, but also for the Chamber of Workers' contributions. This would also be a contribution, for example, to reducing the additional wage costs without the need for us to get money out of the bag again via open or hidden tax increases. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the classification of the economic chamber contributions – most of them know – there is the basic amount that the Chamber of Commerce itself collects. And then there are the hidden contributions, where many entrepreneurs – I put up the hypothesis – don't get that right at all. The hidden contributions chamber cover 1 and chamber cover 2 – or chamber tax 1 chamber tax 2 can also be said – are immediately deducted and lifted directly from the financial office; the chamber envelope 1 on the pre-tax, that is, making investments more expensive, and the chamber pay 2 on the additional wage costs, that is, that cost the factor labour. An example, just to get an idea of the relationships and dimensions: A company in the north of Graz with about 25 employees pays approximately €4 500 in the business chamber during the year, and the same is true of workers' chamber contributions. In total – there are estimates – we speak only in the Chamber of Commerce of about €1 billion, which are made here in total revenue. This is simply perceived by many companies as far too much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the subject of tax reform: There might well be a few hundred million euros loose, if you just wanted to. The compulsory membership also creates framework conditions per se from the system that keeps the chambers themselves from reforms that allow the chambers to remain in the management of property. – This is not mine, this is from Director General Eder von der Voest. The Chambers should look at the electoral participation rates in a self-critical manner. These have been falling sharply for 20 years, so to speak; in 2010 41 percent, in Vienna only more than 29 percent. These are quotas from non-functioning organizations. 70 per cent of the compulsorys say in the reverse: I don't care! - They're not going. That's also a sign, an indication. I'll get you together. We liberals don't want a run-out model of post-war times, which is no longer State of the Art in Europe. We've got that 21. ==References====External links== We want a modern system of representation without compulsion. We want a board as a member-oriented service organisation and representation of interests, and not a functional self-management organisation. And very important: We want a board that has the largest possible number of members, since their benefits are so good and beneficial that everyone likes to join voluntarily and also pays their contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19346	Next speaker is Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19369	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I feel a little bit like “And daily the marmot greets. ” The chamber election is in front of the door, and it has to be discussed again in the Chamber. This is particularly true of the parties who are new here in the house and also hope to be elected to the Chamber – which will show up. The application, which is available, now focuses on the one-person companies and is then addressed to all companies – and this is already stated in the explanations. I am therefore also focusing today on the benefits for one-person companies in the Chamber of Commerce. But this benefit is of course available for all members and for the entire economic community. The Chamber of Commerce is a self-government body. We design what we want to do. The Economic and Social Committee shall take decisions by a simple majority. These are decisions that the economy takes for itself and for its needs. It is a solidarity community – a solidarity community where those who have strong economic growth, who are strong sectors with good yields, can put more into the system and benefit from it those who are weaker sectors. Because for each member, no matter how much it pays into the system, the same performance is available. And now I have two achievements. This is once the performance of the foreign economy. As such a small country on the map, Austria would not be able to have world-leading companies in so many cases, but would not be able to rely on the system of the external economy. And that's what one-person companies do! That which is obviously not known on many occasions is that the companies taking advantage of this know very well what they have of it, and that some – perhaps also led by telling them always, you don't need it – don't know what they can get at the chamber. I would therefore like to give you a second example. I founded the one-person forum in Vienna seven or eight years ago. The one-person forum has used companies 140 000 times in this year alone, i.e. in 2014. Some of them, but 112 000 different companies have benefited from this system. This is a system that is needed because it is often businesses that work from home. There you have the opportunity to conclude cooperations. There you have the opportunity to develop new things with experts who are there from Monday to Friday from 8 a.m. to often 20 a.m. or 10 p.m. They have the opportunity to get support in a way that they could never get otherwise. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am willing to discuss with you if you have a more favourable system for members. For an entrepreneur who has a turnover of €200 000 – and we always talk about the small companies – for such a small one-person entrepreneur, this offer of the Chamber of Commerce does not cost even € 1 per day. It's 150 € a year, chamber cover 2, and then he might have a small basic charge on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19422	The next word to speak is Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19445	Mr President. Dear representatives of the government! High house! Dear taxpayers! Dear Payers! In post-war times, the Austrian social partners were regarded as a model example of relations between companies and trade unions. There were hardly any strikes, and that was very, very important for post-war construction. We are very grateful for this, and we are also very proud of it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Times have changed, and thanks be to God the postwar times have been so and so long ago. So today this system is simply no longer modern. The most important thing is that Austrian entrepreneurs can be competitive. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Where did your father work? Mrs. Rebaur, where did your father work?]] – Yeah, I'm going to take care of the fact that there's great staff at the board. - We have to be competitive. In each ranking, the Austrian economic data fall backwards, and you really have to ask yourself whether and what the chambers actually contribute to our competitiveness. Minister Mitterlehner! There are certainly very good staff in the chambers; They must have been one of the best. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and ÖVP.]] But why does one rob us of the freedom to decide for ourselves whether we want to be a member or not? – In the present structure, the Chambers are taking away this freedom and, above all, automatically and, of course, our money, which both workers and entrepreneurs might invest differently or perhaps even better. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] According to the Constitution, the Chamber of Commerce is a self-government body. However, the charges will be collected by state-owned means. At the Chamber of Labour, the compulsory membership contribution is still paid; that means that each worker is automatically deducted from the wage. In the Chamber of Agriculture, too, all independent farmers are members of the law, even their family members. In addition, all federal states finance their agricultural chambers with generous direct and indirect contribution payments and subsidies. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Despite this good work of the Chamber, the farmers are going badly...!]] In reality, the chambers are very important forerunners of SPÖ and ÖVP, have huge personnel costs, fleets and reside in magnificent buildings. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] All these chambers are subject to compulsory membership. But in a democracy, every person, every company, every entrepreneur should be able to decide for himself where he wants to be and where he does not! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Or how do you view this with the free will of the citizens of this country? – Those who no longer consider the enforcement of the chamber to be contemporary are immediately declared by the associations to be opponents of the institutional representations of interests. That's not true. But don't force the citizens to their luck! In all EU countries, employees decide whether and who they want to be represented – except here in Austria: There you are at the Chamber of Labour, through an automatic, legally prescribed compulsion. That's not right! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As for the self-employed, there are legal regulations, you have said, in seven countries; I think it is only more than six, tending to fall. My request is: Let the citizens have their free will! Think about how to create prosperity in this country. In order to secure social peace, we need not compulsory membership, but a framework that promotes economic growth, so that both entrepreneurs and workers can create prosperity and thus less dependent on state care and redistribution policies, socialist redistribution policies. [[Call the SPÖ:Social Democratic!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We propose that membership contributions be reduced by 20 percent each year, but of course everyone can continue to pay more voluntarily. After a few years you will see how many volunteer members there are in the organizations. Mr Vice-Chancellor, since the Chambers certainly do very, very good work, you certainly do not have to worry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19567	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19609	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Best recruited employee of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – Copyright by Dr. Nachbaur – Dr. Mitterlehner! This discussion is not a new one. There was an original vote already in the nineties, and it did not go as expected by the then critics from the blue side when they acted with the so-called forced membership: Most of the chamber members wanted that. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Who was the participation...?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I think that this majority decision was also very reasonable. For such a system, there are two ways to organize it. Variant one is: Every representation of interest is democratically legitimised, all who enter it have a common representation of interest, which is called democracy. Then there is the other model: Whoever can afford it buys the representation of interest. I mean, the parties that don't sit here without multimillionaires – Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur, you can still have a bad conscience, for you yourself recently became the victim of Frank Stronach; but also the NEOS, which had filled according to the cash register. Then one buys its influence on society! Whoever wants this model will support or submit such applications as you do. But those who want democracy will not make the criterion of representing interests available, and this will be as follows. In recent years, we have experienced so-called rebels in the Chamber of Commerce, industrial companies that have said: That's too much for us, we've got the IV anyway, we're going through it ourselves. And they say they don't want to pay anymore. But there applies to each professional group: Everyone has a voice. For those who, of course, think as the blues – I remember the vice-president of the Amann Chamber of Commerce, who has declared, one-person companies or companies with two or three persons – these are not entrepreneurs at all – it is clear that they do not want the Chamber, because the one-person companies also decide with their voice, the little man may still vote in favour. That they are actually opponents of the fact that he has a voice, I understand. But this is not a reason for such a request. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I'll advise you if you're so upset: There is no compulsorily taking part in the election of the Chamber of Commerce. You just don't need to go there, then you're not represented anyway. That's voluntary! You don't need to be scared. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the Stronach team.]] But to want to weaken the representation of interests, the Austrian social partners, so that we do not have secure collective agreements, that is typical! [[Abg. Stroll: Parliament!]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] You do not want a social partnership, you do not want a secure collective contract system. The sufferers will be small businesses and millions of workers, who benefit from this system. They want the millionaires to benefit. But we don't care. [[Abg. Strolz: You want to maintain the promotion of the party!]] Take care of Frank Stronach! We take care of the people that they have a broken collective agreement, and the small businesses a strong Chamber of Commerce, which they represent worldwide. [[Abg. Stroll: That's what we want to continue!]] Mr Jank represented it. In this sense, I hope that in ten years' time we will have the same strong representation for employees and employers, despite your calls. I therefore support the Committee's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19723	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19768	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! I don't know where to start now. There was an original vote, you're right. It was also thought that at the opening time in Vienna, it would not go as it was supposed to be, with a two-thirds majority for a shop opening on Sunday, Mr Matznetter! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] As Vice-President, Mr Matznetter, you are also afraid of making a preliminary vote on compulsory membership. Let the entrepreneurs choose freely, just as they may freely choose whether to lock them up on Sunday or not. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Let them vote! Let her choose! [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] To the colleague Ecker: A voluntary representation of interests is much slimmer, is much more efficient. Above all, it has represented 1 300 companies at ÖHV and has pulled this heavy tanker as a pilot boat in difficult tourist times. [[Abg. Matznetter: But she tried...!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: What is “slender ”?]] I'm telling you what's really not slim, namely: The number 780/97 is 124 000. The Chamber of Commerce budget for 780 staff in staff expenditure is €97 million, resulting in €124,000 per employee. I can't imagine that. Can you imagine that the average employee at the Chamber of Commerce gets €124,000? How could that be? – Create transparency! Or are there amounts in there as far as Mrs Romans is concerned? Perhaps some regulatory measures of loss of pension in the event of speculation in relation to the President of the Chamber Jank? – Creating You just have transparency, and let us decide what is happening there! Create It is not in the debate which Mr Vice-Chancellor correctly mentioned, as far as crisis is concerned, as far as the crisis of small and medium-sized enterprises is concerned, that you do not create nebulous conditions here, but let them decide whether or not they want to continue this chamber contribution. Let them decide in their voluntaryity, not in the compulsion! [[Abg. Matznetter: Choose!]] There is no doubt that the social partnership has its achievement, only: She's gone, she's just more of a shadow government, and she's what she is: a device in a standstill, inside the swamp. We do not want that anymore, so we want our members to decide on it. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] That's why it's all about nothing else! We do not want to abolish any representation of interest: We do not want to abolish the Chamber of Labour, not abolish the Chamber of Commerce. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] As a forced representative, make you feel what you're fighting for and what you're running for, and don't always mess in! Let me come to a second point, to Chamber 2 I don't know if you've been following in history who introduced this. That was President Sallinger. President Sallinger introduced it in 1978: temporarily for four years, for the most in need of micro-enterprises. Temporary for four years! Entrepreneurs still pay the chamber pay 2. I don't want to start now because I'm an innkeeper and a gastronomy, which I think I'm from your subsidiary organization association, where you pay Kickbacks back to the Chamber of Commerce. These are all cleaners that belong to exposed, and they can only be exposed from the inside. Then let's talk about how much the Chamber of Commerce spends on party funding every year. That's all gone! Then we don't need to talk about Mr. Haselsteiner at all, because then we can talk about Chamber of Labour contributions to the SPÖ and Chamber of Commerce contributions to the ÖVP, and then the world looks quite different! - Thank you many times. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Another thing: The Secretary-General of the Economic Chamber, Mr Stummvoll, said in his farewell speech or in a newspaper interview: The fairy tale is over. – Your fairy tale is over too!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19888	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19909	Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Appreciated spectators in front of the TV sets and on the gallery! Mr Schellhorn is not wrong in many of his criticisms, since I do not wish to contradict it at all. However, I feel reminded of my ÖH times: Over ten years ago, there was always a single freeman in high school; fortunately, it was only about 2% of the liberals at the time. A blue man was sitting in the Federal ÖH representation, and this single blue always wanted to abolish or weaken the high schooling. All that was possible, they have done to weaken the high school. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I now feel negatively remembered in this direction. It is certainly not possible to lead the debate around the Chamber of Commerce here, but you really have to think and question everything in Austria. From the Chamber of Labour, from the Chamber of Agriculture, from the High Schools, of course, to the Chamber of Commerce, you may be able to reform some things, but now here you can pick out the Chamber of Commerce and almost do away with the basics of existence, which is definitely due to the election of the Chamber of Commerce which is ahead. [[Abg. Stroll: We got it!]] But now I am also critical of what is definitely to be done here. From our point of view, of course, you can also return to the chamber environment – which was at least €308 million in 2013. We can definitely discuss this in connection with a reduction in additional wage costs. Of course, we also want to ask Greens why in the Chamber of Commerce everything is expected to be ten times, why we need everything in each federal country separately, why we still need the Federal Chamber. It is often enough to have a representation, not the specialist representation of hairdressers in Carinthia, Styria, Vorarlberg, Vienna and then the Federal Office; not the professional representation of advertising agencies in nine federal states and then the Federal Office. That makes no sense, we can seriously reform it. Someone should explain to me why an advertising agency in Carinthia paid 180 € as a contribution to the chamber and in Vienna 75 €. You can't seriously justify that. This means that we definitely need reform here, and we Greens are also very open to seriously reforming the Chamber. We also want to address multiple memberships. If you already need several business tickets – and I have brought the examples with the florist who needs a commercial license for cemetery gardening so she can pour the flowers – then at least one time you should cash the chamber contributions and not four times for four commercial tickets. That would be a green approach. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] The Chamber definitely has a democratic problem and a problem of transparency. I have actually experienced this in Carinthia as a member of the Economic Parliament, in the Carinthia Chamber of Commerce. There is nothing to say about it, but one must definitely work on extending chamber democracy. If you look at the right to vote alone, how it burns, how economic chamber elections are running, then I would like to explain it as much as it happens: The mayors in Austria are elected, and because of the number of mayors, representation in Parliament is calculated; all other votes have landed in the dungy. That is the current right to vote in the Chamber of Commerce. So you can greatly improve that! If I vote against this NEOS proposal today, this is more a sense of reason than a feeling of stomach, because I have still not heard a better proposal for an entrepreneurial representation. [[Abg. Stroll:... with the heart!]] I can honestly say that. From the stomach feeling, I'd say, Damn it, the Chamber of Commerce, there's a lot in the arse! From reason I say: You haven't made a better proposal yet. I have not yet heard a better proposal for a good entrepreneurship representative in Austria from NEOS. Getting rid of and broken is a quick thing! So this is where you should think. [[Abg. Stroll: Revitalize!]] However, we would also like to ask questions about the promotion of the political groups, which is being distributed in Austria in the Chamber of Commerce, and I would also like to question the system that the Economic and Social Committee, for example, is cooperating with Vice-Presidents. That's what I saw in Carinthia: Then, as it were, a red vice-president will be co-opted by black graces in the Chamber of Commerce of Carinthia, which has of course also been offered to the Blue, and this person will not de facto open his mouth for the next five years; you can be rescinded at any time by black graces. So it cannot be from democracy, here there is definitely also a lot of need for action. What I would like to say is: If the one-person companies are really pushed out of the Chamber, just as NEOS today propose – because finally three-quarters of the EPUs will leave if they are allowed to do so, that is logical – if the EPUs leave the Chamber, then there is only one who is pleased: That's President Leitel! At the end of the day, he can do his job and continue his business as before, and no EPC is there that could disturb him. In connection with the election of the Chamber of Commerce, which is due to take place in February, I would also like to ask once again about the Chamber of Commerce' own bureaucracy. They have not even been able to establish a uniform electoral date throughout Austria. I do know the election of Carinthia, but I cannot say by the way when Vorarlberg is elected, when it is elected in Vienna, because it is a different electoral date in each of the federal states. – So much about self-bureaucratisation and dealing with things that are pointless. So there's something in the chamber in the arrogance. We are in the process of setting up incisive reforms. However, we are not involved when it comes to working in old FPÖ manners with the wood hammer on the chamber and looking at what comes out just because economic chamber elections are imminent. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e19989	Mrs Jank spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20013	A short correction: The Vienna Chamber of Commerce and I have not speculated ourselves, but it is a case of fraud, which is subject to court.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20038	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20059	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! - I'll make it. [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk, which slips off and is therefore not legible.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: This is over!]] I think it is possible to say that once we have been free in the '90s, we have had the abolition of compulsory membership in all chambers. Today we are talking about the Chamber of Commerce, but the forced membership – we have heard before – also concerns the Chamber of Workers or the Chamber of Agriculture. And be glad by the SPÖ that today we do not discuss the Chamber of Workers. I am an entrepreneur myself and have been using the Chamber of Commerce for 15 years. I am not willing to say that in recent years the service quality of the Chamber of Commerce has improved somewhat. In the 1990s, there were truly scandalous conditions in the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce, and the biggest piglets, I say, have also been removed. However, there is still a great need for reform in the Chamber of Commerce. And it must be said that in 2008 ÖVP and SPÖ managed with two-thirds majority to bring this chamber pressure almost into constitutional order. That is why I believe that the lifting of compulsory membership will become relatively difficult in real terms. That is, my experience with the Chamber of Commerce is basically a positive one. There are a lot of talented, diligent employees, including departments that work well – I'm right, Mrs Jank. Especially the foreign trade agencies are, for example, something that is certainly of great benefit to Austria. That's not a subject at all. But there is, of course, a need for reform, which has been mentioned before. For me, this is quite clearly the abolition of multiple payments, several basic amounts. For example, a hoteler in Tyrol, who partially has six, seven commercial tickets, also pays six to seven times the chamber envelope, basic condition. And that would be relatively easy to reduce: pay once. That's not a subject at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unlike the Greens, I would, in all cases, go down to a symbolic amount for the EPCs and micro-enterprises or SMEs. If you cannot abolish compulsory membership for EPCs and micro-enterprises up to nine employees, you should at least reduce the membership contribution to a symbolic amount of – I don't know – 20 €. Then someone is necessarily a member, but at least then the financial burden – and this is already given to many – is acceptable. The third is – and this has already been mentioned – of course it is not understandable that one has very different tariffs throughout Austria. This would also be relatively easy to change. As far as finance is concerned, the question arises whether the Chamber of Commerce can afford these reductions in the interests of entrepreneurs at all. I myself am an volunteer and I know the budgets. In Tyrol, for example, we have a budget of € 54 million for 2015. I also know the reserves in each section. All of us who know the system know that of course there is a lot of room to save. That is to say, if these measures were put in place, the board would not, of course, collapse. It would work just as well, but of course it would have to look at every cost factor carefully. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce has a budget of approximately €250 million. I haven't found that scarce billion right now, but much won't be missing. So about 750, 800 million € will already be, and that's a huge sum that's in the game. My topic, which is actually the decisive thing today, is that the Chamber of Commerce itself is nothing bad. The bad thing about it – and I have to just look at you now – is, of course, the political influence. [[towards ÖVP]] That is, the political influence in the Chamber of Commerce belongs away, radically away. They abuse the Chamber of Commerce. Economic Federation and ÖVP, it abuses the Chamber of Economics for Politics. That's something for me to turn off right away tomorrow. I would also like to say briefly: I am now in Parliament for a year, and it was not possible for me to imagine what split tongue – in order not to use the word lies, for I must not say lies, otherwise I get a call for order – you act. You know nothing about what you, in the Chamber of Commerce, always unanimously announce in the Economic Parliament with great words, if you sit here in Parliament, at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to read briefly from a list, namely those of the chamber officials or business officials: Gertrude Aubauer, Claudia Schlag, Maria Fekter, Werner Groiß, Peter Haubner, Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, Brigitte Jank, Karlheinz Kopf, Josef Lettenbichler, Gabriel Obernosterer, Andreas Ottenschlager, Erwin Rasinger, Michaela Steinacker, Angelikack, Andreas Zakostelsky. – They're all sitting here in Parliament. And then there is a sprung sheep from the red half of the empire: Mr. Matznetter as the Chamber of Commerce Vice-Director with €5,000 a month, so not volunteer. Now, perhaps the content of his speech and the reason why he gets into the stuff for the Chamber of Commerce has become a little clearer. I have to mention it again. Last week, we made it completely out of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Now I'm showing it here. [[The speaker holds a tablet with the title “Prime. The Austrian Economic Federation’s programme: Renewal instead of tax.]] Mr Leitel gave the following: Renew instead of tax. . In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have tabled the proposal from the Economic and Social Committee – then tabled by Peter Haubner, Brigitte Jank and Konrad Steindl – to one word-identifiably. And what did you do? – your own application will be postponed, drawered. If the entrepreneurs always know what you're doing here, promise big outside and then reject your own requests! Mrs. Jank, you have to generate, you can't explain that to a businessman, no one! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: It is quite clear to me that politics – in this case the black policy – must disappear from the Chamber of Commerce, immediately. Then you can immediately improve the last rest of the Chamber of Commerce, which is not yet working perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20157	Mr Wurm, you played something with the word ‘lying’ earlier, so to speak, in connection with the prevention of a call for order. It should not be just about avoiding calls of order, but about a language in which we are dealing with each other, which does not raise the question at all. When dealing respectfully with each other, this question does not arise at all. Thank you. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20181	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I have listened very carefully to the discussion and I see that most of the Members in this House know how important the social partners and the chamber institutions are for this country. That is why I thank all those who support this basic consensus. All those who think you should put that in the air have run out. That's exactly what you're really talking about: Spectacles rather than politics, theatre instead of decisions and quite obviously are noticed, are simply noticed at a time when others develop and shape things. It is about considering who owes Austria the good path to a good political culture and tradition, which builds on the fact that decisions are political and also professionally long and well prepared. And there is no democracy without discussion. Only, with whom do you want to discuss topics if you do not know who your responsible contact person is? That's exactly what we're experiencing in our chamber system. The people who are affected and who carry the subject will elect their representatives. These representatives are very openly discussing the necessary measures, and thank God the law gives us the opportunity to implement these measures in a self-managed institution, namely the Chamber. We have highly qualified employees who make their work happy and develop the topics further, officials who are elected, members who keep the equipment fit every day by their requirements, and employees who are willing to really do something. This is our chamber system. [[Abg. Strolz: That was 1918 okay, 2014 is no longer contemporary!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have – and I am speaking for Lower Austria – had a 66 percent vote in the last election, and anyone with more than one hectare is allowed to vote. Sensational! - Chamber of Agriculture. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Chamber of Agriculture or Chamber of Commerce?- Oh, my God!]] With 90 percent of our vote, we have a 10 percent opposition, which leads the Control Committee. We have a report on the Court of Auditors, which shows that we have worked very well and sparingly. And we can do more work with fewer employees and work together with all the other Austrian agricultural chambers because we have learned to use little money in the interests of our employees. Ladies and gentlemen, thank the people who do so much in the chamber system, the officials who also discuss unpleasant topics, and the employees who are outside each day in the evening hold meetings and explain to people what is happening to them! It means talking to each other, working together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That would be appropriate. And I would expect all of you to say thank you sometime to a chamber officer for the fact that the chambers work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20237	The last speaker was Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20258	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have listened very carefully, also with reference to this request. That is, as I believe, a frontal impact on the social partners here in Austria. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] - They laugh. It's a frontal blow. It is precisely the Freedom Party that tried years ago to lower the chamber in the Chamber to weaken the Chamber. I'm telling you the reason: They claim here today that the workers' chamber elections are no longer contemporary and election participation is declining. But the opposite is the case. Where we are well organized, where works councils are in the house, we have an election stake of more than 92 to 98 percent. And you claim here today that this is 29 percent. – So that's absolute nonsense. And what you're talking about concerns exactly those companies where we're not organized. To the request itself: This is a frontal blow – and I repeat – to the social partners. Mrs Nachbaur and NEOS simply do not want this system in Austria anymore, because all of Europe is looking at Austria, and is proud of our system in Austria. [[Intercom calls at FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] Mrs. Nachbaur, you know very well, your father, too, was the chief officer of the Chamber of Commerce. I'm also proud of it. [[Abg. Reborn: You must listen to what I say!]] Does that have to do with his retirement today? That is why we are abolishing the Chamber of Commerce today, and in ten years we will then abolish the Chamber of Workers, just as the liberals have long wanted, and the NEOS, who no longer know and ultimately make this request? I have to say quite honestly: This will not be the case with the SPÖ, here we will clearly oppose the trade union with all the chambers. Why do I say that? – I stand here today as a works council. One thing is written to you in the main book: The Chamber of Labour argues for more than €300 million in the year for employees in Austria, thanks to their good work and thanks to socialist leadership and a social state here in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ:Ui!]] - Yes, that's it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do I say that? – Look You're going to pick up the chamber! Look You're going to pick up the chamber! Do you find a liberal as president somewhere? – No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! They move at 8 to 10 percent. That's your obstacle, you won't get on with it, and we'll take care of it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20343	Further word message: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20364	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr. State Secretary – by the way, congratulations on your appearance in the “ZiB2” yesterday! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) When I was praised in this house, my saying was: “Let’s talk about life!” And from the inside of the heart, today I speak with 20 years of experience as the chairman of the Vöcklabruck District Farmer Chamber. There has only one division, which in the meantime also exists, that is wine-growing. I would like to give some insight into the actual achievements of this most necessary chamber representation. Ladies and gentlemen, I tried at the time to present the differences between zoo-animal, farm-animal farming and food production. A lot of people didn't understand that. Due to advertising, there are also adults – hopefully not in this house – who believe that pigs fly balloons and that, as you have seen yesterday, they are brought to an old-age home, to an animal home where they then have an age in dignity. I think you should leave the church in the village. But I can say, and that from experience, why I was removed from this chamber function in elected function: because I dared to act as the practitioner I am still today, and to show what foreign federal animal protection law in this house – by the way, under the advice of a zoo director – was decided – please listen carefully, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! – because I have dared to show this insanity of the construction of biogas plants – in a country where we have 48 percent forest area, a lot of lakes and mountain area, talking about surpluses and saying that we need biogas plants to distance, to destroy the surplus areas, is an evil thing, and then sit in the church and pray: [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] Our daily bread gives us today! – and because I dared to attack this superfluous bureaucracy. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] [[Cheerfulness at Abg. Podgorica]] It is very slow that – and I am also a paying member of the Federal Economic Union – behind everyone who works stand five auditors who deserve more than the one who works, but never did what he does. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] I can now add two or three points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] . Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, please listen very carefully so that you know that perhaps the chamber elections will be different from what you want, because the arrows that are now pointing up The economic engine stutters because we have such a good representation. I can already say this in all clarity and bring a recent example from my home community or from every rural community in this federal state: If we go to the local game, roast or duck party today, we have on the plate a deer from New Zealand, then we have on the plate, esteemed colleagues, beef from Argentina – only 12,000 kilometers away, the deer from New Zealand 18 600 kilometers away or 25 days driving time – then of course we have a Polish duck regionally from the farmers around the corner. And especially at the Welser Messe, the Chamber of Agriculture laments that we can no longer meet the need for poultry and no longer have domestic production. Well, why not? And then we have a calfbread from northern Germany. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: And pigshax from China!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I cordially invite you. I pay the token, that's not bribery. We'll decast this menu, and I'll give you the guarantee, that's the truth. I'm just tired of selling the farmers for posters, that we say: Look, there they created, so clear and so beautiful and so wonderful our agriculture!, and the products on the plate have nothing to do with this production, they have passed by these farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Mr. Col., listen to this. I should like to say the following: Despite this so important chamber, we also have the problem of the money, the farmer's money, the distribution of 80 : 20; we are currently experiencing it again in the Russian crisis. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Now there are supposed to be immediate interventions, and that will help because Russia's exports have collapsed. – Please, how many euros of this money come to a farmhouse, and how many euros of this money come from the agricultural budget to the industry, to the food industry and are marketed with the “farm money” spring? [[new call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And that is the same with the compensatory payments, Mr President. 80 : 20 – only 20 percent of the money comes to a farmhouse, the rest comes to the food industry, the rest comes to the chambers, to the ministries and, of course, to the agricultural market Austria, because it also has to apply for its brand. [[Abg. Hoefinger: How is that?]] Let's just leave the church in the village! Let's talk about how it looks! [[Abg. Hoefinger: Leo, what about?]] Last but not least, an example: When farmers' money is advertised in the chamber paper – not in the party newspaper – that's what I wish, Mr. Collegue: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] The best for the country comes from our hands, and then it is mostly foreign goods, then it is politically covered fraud. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Look at this, because that will be the answers you, Mr President, will have to give at the election of the Chamber. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Let me give you one more example: My home community Aurach am Hongar, a farming community, has 25 – Mr. colleague, don't get so upset! [[Abg. Höfinger: Tell the example!]] Look, these are the facts, that's the problem. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pendl and Mr Rädler.]] The truth is unpleasant, we know that anyway – quite simply, Mr. Colleague! I just wanted to say something about the right to vote. Aurach am Hongar has 25 active farmers, including – right, Mr. Minister – forest property, and even a baton we have, with 1,000 hectares, it is granted to him! [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Forest property, Pen Schlägl, gell!]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: Tell me what you told me!]] Now comes the question of price: What do you think, Mr Commissioner, do you think we have in the agricultural chamber election how many are we entitled to vote? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Now you know how fatal this result is. [[Abg. Wheeler: You don't have one!]] There go 85 percent who have nothing to do with current agriculture, because they are no longer active in the farm. We have 367 electors at 25 active establishments. [[Abg. Pendl: Listen, hear!]] Give me, please, an answer whether that fits or does not fit! In any case, I am in favour of the fact that, as with the Chamber of Commerce, as in every holding, the active workers are entitled to vote, and not the one who says that the holding has heard him sometime 35 years ago. [[Abg. Wöger: The reason!]] We must reform it, then we have fair electoral results, then we also have a better policy; then we have a policy for the active farmers and not a policy for the lobbyists. [[Abg. Wöginger: ground and ground!]] That's exactly the goal, and that's what we want.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20632	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Strolz, spoke on an actual correction. Mr Klubobmann, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20657	Mr President. Two actual corrections: Mr Knes said that the request under discussion was intended to destroy the Chamber structures. It is right that he intends to further develop the chamber structures by exempting from compulsory membership. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Second correct: Mr Knes claims that the Chamber of Labour is under socialist leadership. I'm correcting: She's under social-democratic leadership, and there's a difference, I hope.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20696	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20717	Mr President. High house! I think that this discussion is partly very easy to take. A board, for example the Chamber of Workers, has the task of consulting the members, the workers who represent workers. However, through the solidarity structure of the organization, equipped with the money that comes from the compulsory membership, it also has the opportunity to exist in the expert dispute – with the representatives of the employers or the corporations, with law firms or whoever else. In this way, it is an interest and protection organization, which is also democratically legitimate. You know, coming through the back door – be it at the Chamber of Commerce, whether it be at the Chamber of Workers – and saying who wants to stop or not, or else like, is trying to avoid this solidarity of solidarity, and ultimately weaken this structure. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Do you know what the Chambers are doing for Austria, for example, the Brussels representation, in the European Union? The Austrian model, for example, is superior to many other models in Europe. I know from other countries that when it comes to finding complicated compromises – which is often necessary when the interests are very difficult and very controversial especially in times of crisis – look at Austria and ask: How are you doing that, in terms of employment, in the fight against unemployment, but also in many different laws, you are able to do so with relatively low friction losses? What bothers me so much – and that is why I have now reported spontaneously spontaneously, even though I was not on the speaker list – is that you deal with it in this way. [[Abg. Stroll: serious discussion!]] I believe that we should be careful about this precious asset of the political system in Austria – which has already been renewed here and there and has been changed and reformed there, but in principle it is correct and responsible that we are so good in international comparison. I am massively opposed – with regard to what you said to Mr Knes earlier – to the question of this solidarity from this side. And that's why we're going to fight that this isn't happening!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20766	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 406 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. [[18:47:10]] 24. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (369 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 and the Higher Education Act 2005 (389 d.b.) 25. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 795/A(E) by Dr Andreas F. Karlsböck, Members on the country of origin principle (390 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20825	We come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20852	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking the Committee for having a different style. Until now, it has been true that all the applications that have come from the opposition have in principle simply been postponed, i.e. to all eternity shubbled. That's not the way it is now. We shall now release one or other request to vote, even here in plenary. This is a positive achievement, and as the chairman of this committee, I do not think I can say that is all right. The amendment to the university law that we are discussing here today is unfortunately the illustration of a somewhat ambitious government policy. We resist in this template at side-by-side locations. We can certainly agree with important innovations, but it is a relief from the need we have been preaching for years and days, namely sufficient funding for our universities, so that the safeguarding of places of study is guaranteed mainly for domestic students. I am already in the first abuse that I would like to concretely condemn here. At this item on the agenda, we are dealing not only with the university law, but also with my request that the country of origin should be reintroduced. We want the inflow of foreign students at the expense of Austrian colleagues. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I just call you a few numbers to support this: In 2012/2013, 18 600 Austrians studied abroad, while in Austria, some 76 600 young people studied abroad. This results in an overhang of about 58 000 students. A place of study costs about $14,000 – unfortunately that is stated in dollars, and if you calculate it now, then you can see that this overhang costs about 865 million dollars, which is about 665 million euros. That is, the state of Austria is investing €665 million in the education of foreign students – more than he can deduct when Austrian students go abroad. That's clearly too much for us. Today we have heard – and this is an alarm signal – that 80 percent of all Germans studying medicine do not stay in Austria. I am not willing to say that this question has come from the NEOS. The NEOS asked about German graduates or even foreign graduates of medical studies in Austria and asked how many are staying here in Austria. One concludes – and this is an alarming factor that we have not even seen so dramatically – that 80 percent of all Germans studying medicine do not stay in Austria. That is, we are making these students up with our taxpayers, and nothing comes back at all. The remaining students, who do not come from German-speaking countries, are about 65 percent – still far too much. We therefore say quite clearly that it has never been so urgent to reintroduce the country of origin principle. I would like to make a gift to Mrs Beatrix Karl – I can congratulate you, you have today’s birthday. You are right, of course, if you say that it is not possible with the current regulations. But we are politicians, and I say we want to change the laws; and we can also change the laws with a certain amount of pressure in Europe. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] That is to say, the country of origin principle is immediately treated and renegotiated and, as an emergency measure, immediately requires transfer payments from the Union, which bring back these €600 to 700 million. Let us stick to this case-by-case example that almost all foreign students want to return to their home country – or at least out of Austria! You have to ask yourself why this is so. This is what we are on a subject that is now only on the verge of: As I have said for a long time, we must create attractive jobs and an attractive working environment for young people to stay in Austria. In medicine this means simply and simply: Doctors must finally be allowed to hire doctors, and we also need an attractive right in this area, an attractive form of gesmbh, so that something goes on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to address a few other points in this novel, for example, that the study entry and orientation phase is now being re-regulated. Especially in the field of mental and cultural studies, the question arises which selection methods and criteria are applied at all, which could be suitable to distinguish the right ones from the wrong students at the beginning of a study. More targeted than the uncertainty caused by the constantly changing selection rules, fundamental reforms in the education system appear to be from a liberal point of view, but unfortunately these seem to be far removed. Something similar to the conclusion – of course not all is bad; as has been said, the discussion climate in the Committee has improved significantly – this innovation contains four positive things: the insight into the assessment documents and the test information in the course of an examination and the admission process, the anchoring of the compatibility of studies and careers for all university members, the clarification that universities and their members are entitled to actively acquire assets of different types for university tasks, and the new handling of plagiars that we will discuss at the next item on the agenda. However, I would also like to stress here that this story with the quota that is being introduced – that is why the Minister of Women is sitting here – is not at all to be seen. I heard a talk yesterday by the chair of the IST. You all probably know what that is. The IST is the so-called Herzige project of the Austrian universities and science, stamped from the ground in 2006 in Klosterneuburg. It uses completely unconventional new methods to train a certain excellence in Austria – so far, so good! I have yesterday allowed myself to ask the question as to whether the quota system will also be introduced in the university or the professor's field. There they looked at me – and it was a woman who spoke – and said to me: Well, we really do not want to create quantity here, but quality, and the one that is good, or the one that is good, is taken of course. Let's look at an iPhone today, an iPad: This has been invented more or less by outstanding personalities, and this is not a question of quotas, because one simply cannot dictate that. And that's what I mean: Excellence as such, which we also want at a public mass university, cannot resist with such a thing. By the way, I claim that this discussion here is 20 years too late. 20 years ago, we probably signed that, but today we can't sign it in any way. In medicine, for example, we already have quotas from 60 to 70 percent of graduates. They stay at the university because it is of course also more women-friendly than in the free market economy, they of course have all the conditions, and there is also a 50 : 50 or 60 : 40-quarters among women. Finally, I would like to say something: It seems strange to me that you want to abolish the gender parity composition in a college or in a department. This has up to date ensured that 50 : 50, men: Women. That's what you want to do now, and I don't see it at all. As I said, we reject this novel because it is generally negative. We hope, however, that you are now putting up with the quota system, this problem and agreeing to our request here. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20951	As the next speaker, Mr Deputie Dr. Däderle is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e20973	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Ministra! Ladies and gentlemen, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the novelle of the university law and the university law governing the educational universities contains some important points; I want to focus on three. There are some regulatory requirements in the field of education NEW, both in the UG and in the higher education law, and this novelle creates the legal possibility of better and smoother cooperation between these two institutions in the field of educational education NEW – a law which we have decided here in the House and which is often underestimated. Especially in the light of the current debate on education reforms, this law is given its meaning, its weight, because in this discussion it is repeatedly emphasized how important it is to train good teachers that this is at all the central point of successful education. The prerequisites for such good training are, of course, appropriate framework conditions and opportunities for training in institutions. That is now being improved by this novel. Both institutions, which are partially committed to cooperation by the law, can now do much better. In Austria there are four such allies, regionally divided, in which this cooperation is already taking place, in which curriculum is already being developed together and where this new teacher education is on a very, very good path. So this law facilitates this work, and I think that is a very important decision that we take here. The second thing I would like to mention is a subject which has become very up-to-date in recent years due to some prominent cases, namely the plagiarism debate. Of course, in the scientific field, there is a constant risk of plagiarism, and this law now creates new opportunities for universities to impose sanctions. So far, sanctions have also been imposed, but only in the case of major final work and only in retrospect. Now, during the studies, when plagiarisms are established, you can set various sanctions, you can be very suffocated, and above all you will be given the opportunity to do so to the universities, and it will also allow them to consider what they are up to a maximum, which means: Exclusion from study for two semesters, do but there are also considerably milder possibilities. All of this can be determined by the universities in their statutes. That is, in these statutes, all the forces and groups of the university work together and can decide together. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The third thing that seems important to me – there are many regulations, but a third larger area that seems important to me – is the opportunity now given to take a more concentrated and cooperative approach in the field of university building. This is also important because a lot is being built at the universities in Austria, also at the colleges. We have installed over € 1 billion in this area in recent years and we have wonderful university buildings. Only the progress and planning of these buildings and also the execution so far have been relatively irregular and, above all, with less coordination than is now possible. There has long been a construction guide plan in which the universities themselves take a priority line, and this construction guide plan is now also laid down by law. Kert. There is a possibility for the Minister, who must also ensure funding, to speak and to co-form it, and this in an orderly framework. We have tried to keep the bureaucratic effort as low as possible and have therefore also set limits under which such consultation is not necessary. But when it comes to large sums, it makes sense to take very coordinated and coordinated action. That's also what this novelle makes possible. And that's why I'm asking for her consent. I believe that in addition to these three important fields, there are a number of other very important regulations, which may be mentioned in part by other speakers. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21027	I call Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21048	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Karlsböck has already said a lot of right things in terms of foreign students. In the interests of Austria, it must be to train only the best and most diligent foreign students. After all, the Austrian taxpayers also bear the costs. Unfortunately, however, reality looks something different. Foreigners need not only longer for their studies, but also much more often. Nevertheless, I believe that every foreign student in Austria should have the opportunity to obtain state aid. However, I am still saying in the same breath that all students have to provide a certificate of benefit which excludes the recognition of services provided in other fields of study. What do I mean by that? – Our problem is that students can only be recognized by examinations they have already performed in the past, whether abroad or in the country. These benefits are sufficient for the State aid body to prove their performance. Our problem is that we must finally abolish this exam tourism and stop it. That is why I am very clear about qualitative, timely access restrictions for all students. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Any student who is interested in a course of study in Austria must also be prepared to undergo an admission test. This is probably the minimum I want to deal with the matter before, which I want to study afterwards. Thus, such qualitative, timely access restrictions would be very helpful. It would ultimately leave those students who just want to study because (a) they do not know what else to do with their time, or (b) just aim at the aid. Let me also lose a word about the planned medical union in Linz. You know, this is the prestigious object of the Upper Austrian head of state, Pühringer, who realizes himself there. [[Abg. Neubauer: No, that's not true!]] [[Intercessions by Mr Principal and Mr Lichtenecker.]] I'm already risking a thesis. I now trust myself to claim that the Med-Uni in Linz will be frequented and flooded primarily by German students. And I trust to say even today that these German students will not stay in Upper Austria or in Austria. Mr Karlsböck said that today there was an APA report: 80 percent – Mrs. Lichtenecker, you have the time to report later when you have Muse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] 80 percent of German medical graduates return to their home country, to Germany, leaving Austria. Austria has nothing of it, ladies and gentlemen. We pay for the training, but we don't have any of it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Minzig and Mr Korun.]] However, according to the Institute of Economic Research, at least half of the foreign students would have to stay in Austria after their studies, so that the training for the State, for the taxpayer, will be saved. The fact is, a study place for a foreign student costs more than he brings to tax. And we can only benefit from these foreign students in the long term if they stay in the country after they have graduated. Then they bring not only their expertise acquired from us, but also a corresponding tax performance. That's why it turns, and we have to turn on the screws to make it change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21110	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21131	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, within the framework of the UG-Novelle, we decide on a number of important points, although not consistently spectacular, they have already been presented, such as the measures for plagiars, a clear definition, or an Austrian-wide construction plan. I would like to highlight the increase in the rate of women from 40 to 50 percent. This is also a very, very important measure at universities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is seen that women's share is more than 50 percent among students, including those who complete their studies. But if you look at the professor's positions, you can see that the proportion of women goes down to 20 percent. [[Abg. New builder: SPÖ!]] In other words, the increase in the quota is not, of course, an instrument to occupy the posts directly differently, but very important in order to strengthen the position of women at universities. It is also important to anchor the compatibility of work or study with care obligations – a subject which is not a matter of women in itself, but how real life plays in this way, in most cases, or in many cases, is a subject that is particularly important for women and where important support and relief are also to be offered. With regard to Mr Karlsböck's request for the country of origin principle, which is also under negotiation here, I would like to say on the one hand, Mr Karlsböck, that in your opinion I have previously missed the commitment that it is important for our universities to be international and also to have foreign students. On the other hand, Mr Karlsböck, we have no problem with foreigners.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21164	Excuse me, Madam President, I just want to wait until you can talk back in peace. [[in the direction of the Abg. Pilz, who congratulates Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner on his birthday]] I understand birthday wishes, but the main focus is the speaker. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21188	We do not have an alien problem at the Austrian universities, Mr Karlsböck. But we already have a problem, namely that we cannot cope with the inflow of German students to Austrian universities to the extent. You kindly quote me in your request that I should have supported the idea of a country of origin as we used to be. – That is true, just from today’s point of view, I must tell you, that is a wish for the Christian child; not only because Advent is, but above all because it simply contradicts EU law. But where I'm right with you, this is the following: It would be urgent to find a solution at European level which is compatible with EU law, because it is not reasonable for the Austrian taxpayer to solve the problems of a country ten times greater than we are. [[Abg. Kickl: But we do the gipshax, too! Why is it with the health insurance companies?]] As my appeal to the Minister of Science to take action at European level to bring about appropriate solutions – there are partners at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21228	I call Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21249	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Federal Minister! High house! I would like to draw up two points on this item on the agenda today, which Mr Karlsböck has not yet spoken about or just strangled, because they are particularly important to me. One is the improvement of cooperation opportunities between educational universities and universities in the field of education of educators. This is just another step that we welcome, which started with a first step in 2005. Under the government of that time, the university law was passed, and there was a first structural adjustment that ended with eight educational universities. The second step in 2013 was to raise the level of educational education to the systematics of the Bologna process, i.e. at Bachelor's, Master's level. Now comes the third step with the extension or dissemination of cooperation opportunities between educational universities and universities. I join what colleague Dr. My daughter said: It must be very, very important to us in this area of education of educators, because they are those who train our youth and thus, in future, shape our future. That is to say, these steps are seen and supported by us quite positively. Perhaps we can still prove some courage and follow the recommendation of the Council for Research and Technology Development and take a fourth step, namely, in the sense of a principle of congruence of task, competence and responsibility, to give the whole area organizationally where it belongs, namely in the tertiary sector, that would be the Ministry of Science. Perhaps you take a fifth step and think about the integration of pedagogical universities into universities. This would probably bring significant savings in the administrative field. Two more sets on the topic of country of origin: Of course – I can answer for colleagues Karlsböck – we make the confession that universities are a place where exchange takes place where students from many countries and nations study together. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We also value it, we welcome and promote the fact that Austrian students come abroad, as well as Foreign students should study with us. I can say this from my own experience that I have studied relatively much and have always understood myself excellently with my foreign colleagues. That's not why it's about it. It's actually a budgetary problem. The fact is that we have an overhang that costs us 600 million €. Second fact is: After all the studies of the budgets and forecasts we know, we do not have the money. So it must be legitimate, without being accused of asking for the demand as an alien or similar, but to see how we get the 600 million to the best possible extent. There are very possibilities to negotiate, you have to negotiate hard. We have to know that the 600 million are going off, and whether we are putting the 600 million into the underfinanced university budget, which would also be a good variant. So, actually, it's just about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21304	I can tell you that after the next speaker, Mr Vice-Chancellor's opinion is planned. Then, at the request of the President, the sitting will be suspended for a short standing. I am already looking for the club members or their alternates to attend. Mrs Maurer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21328	Mr President. Dear Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the background of the UG-Novelle we are discussing today is actually a legal uncertainty that has arisen. So far, the law has always regulated that no study entry and orientation phase should take place in those areas that are restricted to access – i.e. pharmacy, computer science and so on. However, this has still been carried out. And because of uncertainty and a certain fear of a corresponding complaint, this novelle has become necessary from the Ministry's point of view. The STEOP – which stands for study entry and orientation – does not correspond to what this name is supposed to say. It would be more like a STOP. For many students, STEOP is a shock, a series of Knock-out tests, which are equipped with other legal conditions regarding examinations. It leads to study time delays, which are partly massive, it leads to massive mental pressure among students, because it has consequences if one does not create them in time. The fact that the already restricted subjects have so far been carried out illegally has now led to the need for this novelle. The STEOP corresponds to a culture that students do not welcome, but rather gratifies. This is more about getting rid of students than welcoming them to the universities and enjoying the fact that we have many young, now also many older people who want to study. This is now legalized, and we cannot support it as a green party. Accordingly, we have made a request for separate vote on this paragraph in the law. More by chance, however, other points have been standardized in the law, which are quite welcome. As a feminist, I am particularly pleased that after many years of criticism – and most recently also in the preparation of the budget, when I once again pointed out that the achievement of a 40 percent female quota has not already been ambitious – the quota has now been increased to 50 percent. I am particularly pleased that joint effort has also succeeded in getting away from a gender parity. In the original version of the law, at least 50 per cent of the women's quota would not have been provided for, but a 50 per cent male ratio, which would have meant that those bodies and rectorates made up of more women than men would not have been possible in the future. So the 50 percent quota at universities is definitely a good step towards gender equality, and I am very pleased. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It also welcomes the harmonisation of the framework conditions for educational universities and universities as regards teaching studies. In practice, however, we still have very big challenges ahead of us. The inclusion of the construction plan in the university law also creates much more liability to the universities as regards the construction projects. But if we are indebted to the keyword: This is, of course, a wonderful point of the universities, because they have no liability in terms of financing. I am very pleased, Minister, that you are here today and will now also issue an opinion. Perhaps you can also tell us what the current state of play in the negotiations between your ministry and the Ministry of Finance is about the additional funds for the universities for 2016 to 2018. You have birthday today – all right! – perhaps Mr Schelling has made you a birthday present. [[Call at the FPÖ:The Schelling gives Schilling!]] In any case, it would be urgently necessary for the universities, and I am looking forward to information from you. Finally, a word on the FPÖ's request on the country of origin principle: I spoke before about a culture of gratification that we have at the universities, and this request is in line with that. We should be glad that there are many international students who want to study at Austrian universities. Yes, we have a challenging situation with German students. However, I would like to point out that a very important aspect has not been taken into account in the request submitted by the NEOS: how many Austrian graduates of a medical study have emigrated to Germany or to another country to pursue their activities there. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Exactly!]] This is a fundamental problem because the attractiveness and possibilities for young doctors in Austria are anything but good. This request concerning the country of origin is clearly rejected by us. We are glad that there are many international students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21394	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21423	Mr President. Dear Mrs Colleague! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard that we are dealing with two issues here today, namely, the revision of the university law and, on the other hand, the revision of the university law. For this reason, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek is also present – I am very pleased about it – because in the final effect this expresses that it is necessary in the educational training that we work together in the field of universities and the educational universities. This has been clarified by my predecessor in the negotiations, and this has been decided here too. I think it's a very good law. However, there is also the need for legal clarification on the part of the new constellation. A number of other points, such as the curriculum or the possibilities for enlargement, must also be clarified by law. But I find the way very, very good. We had a bigger event yesterday, I heard, also in the area of colleagues there was something similar where, among other things, the issue of educational education was addressed, while it was found that the quality in this area is crucial for the further development of the education system. I would also like to thank Mrs Maurer, in whose speech I have heard twice the word “welcome” concerning the content of the law. That's really new to me. As you have also asked if the Minister of Finance has given me a gift: Did he, but not because I happen to have a birthday today, but because he's convinced of the matter. We will probably introduce this tomorrow. I can invite you to do so now. That is to say, this question of financing, which is a really important question, since I am perfectly right in giving you, we are going to have a clarification. Even though the conditions for the knowledge society we are talking about are all over difficult by the economic crisis, we want to solve the problem. As far as university law and innovation are concerned, I can be very brief. Karlheinz Dägenle and others have raised most of the points, so I can make it very italic. The women's rate: I believe that this is a very, very positive and socially real-time regulation, which provides for at least 50 percent of women's participation in the collegiate bodies. You have mentioned, Mrs Maurer, that there may have been a mistake in the wording before, because, where there are already higher rates of women, they should have been corrected downwards. This would have been undesirable, and we then settled together. It is also a further and positive provision in the relevant principles of the universities as regards the compatibility of work and family. I also believe that this, it has not yet been mentioned, corresponds socially to our ideas or ideas of the majority. As far as quality assurance in scientific work, so-called plagiarism problems, is concerned, there are also clarifications and appropriate sanctions on the part of universities. As far as the so-called study entry and orientation phase is concerned, it is right that this is a legal clarification. But in the final effect, we are doing an evaluation. And that's why I can't follow what you said, Mrs Maurer, that they're already showing their results. This should be the result of the evaluation and will also be the result. I think this is very positive in itself. Why do we need this phase? – It is not a Knock-out test, quite the contrary. We don't have any capacities. And if you don't have a rigid capacity, then you have to have the basis for how to proceed and how to secure quality. This means that we have improvements in all areas, as far as I am now able to see what the forthcoming evaluation is about. We will then also have negotiations on a new regulation. I would welcome a positive conclusion. The same is true – Karlheinz Dägenle has already mentioned it – in the construction projects. The construction guidelines are already in place, but in principle they are not legally binding. Now we have clarity without getting ahead of the individual universities. There is greater legal certainty, security of planning, perceptibility in all activities. The university law is over ten years old. What we are doing is to further develop universities, partly also in context with social policy developments, partly from the point of view of creating legal clarity. All in all, I think this has worked very well. I can thank all those involved. As it is clear from universities that in terms of management, there are also other needs – they have become huge companies – we will have to discuss the next innovation as early as next year. But then on the question: What does the rector have, what does the University Council have, what does the Senate of Skills have, and how can we further develop it? I think there are also some clarification and further development needs there. Much has already been said about the country of origin principle. We have not been able to clarify this in the accession negotiations. And then there was a decision in 2005 that our procedure does not comply with EU Treaty law. Now, Mrs Kuntzl, it is quite a bit, I do not want to say cheaply, but it is something superficial to believe that we or I as ministers can now change the legal situation. So the EU is quite, very far away from introducing the country of origin principle in the form now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] - Please? After you are quoted in the application. [[Abg. Kuntzl: I disagreed with that!]] You disagreed. - I don't think that's really reasonable either. The principle of universities is based on internationality; some have mentioned it. What doesn't fit you right now is the relation that too many foreigners are there and on the other hand too few Austrians. Only, you have to say, the majority of those studying there are from the European area. And it's up to us, it's up to our children, it's up to our students to see the international possibilities more closely. We do this with Erasmus plus and with other programs. On the other hand, it will be up to us ourselves to perhaps improve the conditions for us under the next quota scheme, because in the final effect I would also like to deal with the money of taxpayers serious and in the interest of Austrian citizens. In this sense: I think it is in itself a very, very good arrangement that you can hopefully agree with. I would like to thank all those involved, especially the negotiators in the Committee, and I hope that we will not constantly discuss the other subject again and again. I've known it for a long time. It does not bring us forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21475	I am now interrupting, as announced, the meeting for the purpose of holding a standing presidial.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21507	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the interrupted sitting and would like to inform you briefly about the outcome of the Presidency and report it to you. You know that during the vote on agenda items 4 to 6 there was a temporary barrier in the House, which led to the failure of Members concerned to take part in the vote on these agenda items. The President-in-Office of the Second National Council did not have any information on this short-term barrier and could therefore not interrupt the meeting in the short term. We now have concerns, especially as regards Article 56 B-VG, namely the exercise of the free mandate, with regard to the vote, in which the President agreed that we will re-establish this proposal, which will result in a meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs taking place today following this meeting. I wanted to inform you about that. We are now continuing the agenda, and I am handing over the presidency to President Hofer again.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21546	Mr Scherak, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21570	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We've heard it already: The adjustments we are discussing today, which we will decide in the university law and in the university law, are not necessarily the big throw. That was not the plan of this novel. It is essentially about organizational adjustments within the HG, in particular that we can strengthen cooperation between universities and educational universities, especially in the education of teachers. That certainly makes sense, and we will, of course, agree with it. What I do not understand – I have already said this in committee – is why we do not also take the last step in this context, which would actually be understandable, namely that we make the educational universities what they are, what they really are: universities. They continue to be subordinate departments of the Ministry of Education. Mrs Minister, you said in the Committee that you did not share our concern because we were practically joining the educational universities in the universities. It is a matter of concern to the - That's not our concern! Our concern is that we have universities at the same level, all universities at the same level that the educational universities have the same autonomy and exactly the same writing as the universities. That is why it is quite clear that this would be the necessary step, then we also did not need these adjustments, which we will decide here today, in the sense. Another point contained in the amendment is to facilitate the collection of third-party funds. Of course, this is urgently necessary, which is particularly evident when looking at the budgets and sees that in Austria, especially in the field of science funding, the proportion of private sector is very low. There is also a need for change. At this point a little memory of you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – perhaps tomorrow, perhaps the conversation with the Minister of Finance, which you have announced – is: There is still no presentation of the non-profit foundation law that you have announced. This too is an essential part – perhaps, as I said, tomorrow – of the fact that we can also take on private funds much more strongly so that universities can have more funding. Another small point, which I consider very important, refers to the possibility of teaching and research for young doctors who are in the training of a specialist. There is also a regulation there. I am not quite sure if the regulation will be sufficient, but the awareness of the problem is at least there that the appropriate teaching and research is also possible for the young doctors. Finally, Mr Karlsböck's request. In particular, you have somehow argued and defended this country of origin in response to my question. - That's not my solution. I come to a different solution. We already heard it, and you said it yourself: The country of origin principle does not work under European law. You are right to do this at European level, but I do not think it is right either. It is a fundamental principle, a fundamental principle, a fundamental freedom of the European Union, namely the right of free movement of persons, and I believe that it should be left that way. We have – and this is quite right – a challenge to us because of the many German students who come to us in particular to study medicine, but we also have an essential problem – that has not been asked in the request, I do not think figures for it – that many young doctors with Austrian citizenship then go abroad. I believe that we need to do much more in this regard. We need to change the training opportunities, the training opportunities and also the payment. It is no wonder that young doctors migrate abroad, because in Germany training opportunities are quite different and much better. That's where we have to sit. I believe that the country of origin principle is purely not a good solution to change the situation in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21629	Mrs Jank is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Arbitrator talks to Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – I have to ask again for the speaker to be given the space she deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21672	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With today's law decision, we are putting a mosaic into a, as I hope, far-reaching educational reform, which is being started with it; many things are also in other areas. In any case, however, the educational universities and universities will cooperate on the basis of this legislative decision, and that is certainly to be welcomed. There will also be more quality. The PHs are upgraded, they get more autonomy, although not complete autonomy, that is certainly a wormhead drop, but they get more autonomy. A College of Higher Education will be set up which will be entrusted with the adoption of the curriculum and the examination regulations. The rectorate will be upgraded, strengthened in its strategic control function and will receive more competence in personnel planning, development, quality control, or also in budget allocation – in order to reach out to some extent. However, there will also be quality-enhancing developments at universities. Here, I think, and it is, I believe, already mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Däderle, above all, that what is planned in the framework of the construction projects is very essential. Such construction projects always have a large-scale budget, which is to be allocated and used meaningfully. In most cases, it is also beyond several service agreements. I therefore see these provisions as the right way and the right step, particularly in the sense of effectiveness, economy and economy. The centrepiece for me and, as I hear, for many others, the educational education is new, because it is precisely the educational education and thus the best-trained teachers at our schools that will ensure that we can also offer the best education in schools. There will be a multi-level qualification and admission procedure, ensuring that only the best-suited ones go to teacher training, and there will be an induction phase at the start of the career itself. All this to increase the quality of our teacher training in general! I see the steps taken in connection with the necessary overall development of our education system. I would also like to thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chancellor, for taking up this issue, for explaining it as an important issue, especially for you personally, and also for your commitment to it. I am sure that with this university law and the proposed changes for universities, we are taking a step towards the best possible education for the children in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21707	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21728	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that after long negotiations and preparations, it has succeeded in deciding on this novel to the university and university law. The last legal barriers to the joint teacher/teacher training of university and educational universities are now being removed. Pedagogical Education Newly combines the strengths of both institutions, on the one hand in technical training, and on the other hand in didactics and general pedagogy. This is also important and right to meet the ever-increasing demands of the teacher's profession. Preparatory work for pedagogical education Newly, it has taken place in Austria at different speeds. The south, in the context of Styria, Carinthia, Burgenland, is certainly the widest with regard to the common curriculum. I look forward to this new regulation, of these new legal bases, also a new momentum for the whole of Austria as regards the further development of the education system, the further development of teacher training and the overall quality of school, as Mr Jank has already said. The joint teacher/teacher training is no longer differentiated by school types and is thus also an important prerequisite for the common school according to internationally proven model. All in all, this is a successful work to which you can truly only congratulate cordially – just as, of course, also on the birthdays, Mr. Vice-Chancellor today and Mrs. Federal Minister next week. The shooters, to which I may count, once again proved to be reliable. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21778	The next shooter, Mrs Mag. Dr. Karl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21807	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the request by Mr Dr Karlsböck, colleagues on the country of origin principle. Dr. Karlsböck has already acknowledged that the anchoring of the country of origin principle for the first registrations at public universities is illegal in Europe. In contrast, it is stated in the present motion that the Ministry's previous argument that a regime would violate EU law in accordance with the country of origin is not comprehensible because this principle is already applied in other areas, such as the Services Directive. This statement is wrong for two reasons. Firstly, admission to universities is not about freedom to provide services, nor about freedom of movement for goods, but about the free movement of citizens of the Union. On the other hand, there is the European Court of Justice already mentioned. July 2005, in which the European Court of Justice expressly stated that the Republic of Austria thereby infringed its European obligations – I quote – “that it has not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the holders of secondary and higher education diplomas acquired in other Member States have access to higher education in Austria under the same conditions as the holders of secondary school diplomas acquired in Austria”. In other words, the European Court of Justice clearly does not refer to the country of origin principle, but rather applies the principle of equal treatment at national level. This principle of equal treatment is, for example, also enshrined in Article 24 of the EU Citizens' Directive. It expressly states that EU citizens If other Member States stop, they must be treated as domestic citizens – except for a European exception. This is possible, of course. Nor can it be said that the EU lawgiver did not have the universities in mind. Paragraph 2 of this Article explicitly allows host Member States to exclude the other Union citizens – i.e. EU foreigners – from the entitlements to study funding, i.e. study aid et cetera, provided that they have not yet acquired the right to stay permanently. It is clear that Austria's return to the country of origin is clearly illegal in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21855	Mr Mayer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21877	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also allowed to stand as a congratulant within the framework of this “safety of protection”. I am pleased that we are taking another important step in educational training on the very important day for you. We all, who have dealt with the subject, know very well the key players in education policy and remain teachers – with all their advantages and disadvantages, especially the benefits, of course, we want to highlight. It was therefore very crucial and important – and therefore my congratulations also applies to previous ministers, in this case daughters and blacksmiths, I am pleased that the new ministers continue to work so hard in these functions of their work – that we continue to focus on this important field of education. It is crucial for the future – not for the next two years, not for the next five years, but for the future – of our education system, how well we train our new generations of educators. Let's remember! Only a few years before I started studying, the compulsory school teachers have been trained as they are today: Teacher Education Institute with Matura – and then they were teachers. Then came the Educational College, first the Educational Academy with two semesters, then four semesters, and now you have finally taken this important step, involving all players – national and international – who have experience in all fields of university and PH, to put on their feet a new, modern concept for educational training. Well, knowing about the difficulty in these two fields of university and educational college – the one with their autonomy, the other with their very strong ties; what we want if we bring out the educators then – we have to deal with this project in this way. We cannot wait for what may be natural in 20 years, which will always be the focus of the representatives of NEOS, which will also be a long form, namely to have independent educational universities, which are educational universities that deal exclusively with this subject. I believe that exactly what was the spirit of this presentation of educational education, which we have adopted, is now being implemented. Of course, one or the other one will have to adapt; Example of cooperation clause. The interaction between educational universities and universities will grow, will work. It's growing too. There are different developments in the four regions, but the large part is very committed to the fact that one can form curriculum, which in fact create the conditions for us to have the best teachers for the future. I believe that the adaptation of this law, which we are making today, is an important step forward and will lead to years when we can say: Yes, the decisive choices we made at the time are guaranteed that in the foreseeable future we will actually have the best educators for our children! That's what we all want together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21916	Mr Kucher is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21938	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Happy Birthday to the government bank in two ways! I should like to congratulate both of you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, on this. The Federal Minister has only next week's birthday, and I believe that the biggest gift for her would be really a far-reaching educational reform, as she has already addressed and announced to the Education Spokesman of the ÖVP today. This would also be the biggest educational reform for pupils. We see this positively. Mr Vice-Chancellor has already announced that there will be some reforms in this area, and I believe that this is very, very important in the sense of the children and the future of our country. But I believe that we have just moved a lot further in Austria with the education of educators, which we can also be proud of. Yes, we need the best teachers for the future of our children, and the best possible training of our teachers is, of course, the most important basis for this. In the future, teaching courses at universities and educational universities will be possible together. The preparation of these new joint study plans is, of course, a great opportunity, if there are still challenges there, namely, existing skills, priorities, experiences to connect and to benefit from together. I am now talking about the educational-didactic experience which, of course, can very strongly bring in the educational universities, not least because of the experience from the many training schools or also from the scientific-specific field of education at universities. With today's novelle of the university and university law, we create the basis of pedagogical education new, and this is now to be fulfilled with life in the future. This works well in many areas, in some areas that, as I mean, has to work even better. Policy is also required to continue to control this. In addition to the educational education New of course there are also some further changes, which are also included in the two novels present, as has already been mentioned today. For me, the organisational development of the rectorates of the educational universities is important – a very important point. But also many other points in the university law such as defining the compatibility of study and profession, of care obligations for children and needy relatives are just as important to me as strengthening equal treatment. We have heard it today, many important steps have already been taken in the field of education, some are being implemented today – in the future we are all called on to do so. to continue working hard. In this sense: Let us take up the educational reform together and make a birthday present to the Minister of Education next week with a reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e21983	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22004	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Many things have been said, most of them very positive. I am also very pleased that we can decide together today on the one hand the novel of the University Law 2002, on the other side of the University Law 2005. What do we decide? – I am pleased that women get even more opportunities to find their place at the universities in the various bodies. On the other hand, it is a question of compatibility that has just been mentioned, which is also worth mentioning, which is important for men and women working in this field. Thirdly, I believe that we can say that our educational universities are doing excellent work, that I think it is good that these training centres for educators remain the way they are, with all their institutions, their federal centres, the good work, the practical schools, which also have pioneering roles, and that we are very happy to present this common government template here today. It is thus brought together on the one hand what both sides of this medal, on the one hand the universities, on the other hand the educational universities, do particularly well, and through the cooperation clauses no one else opposes, but this common path of the new educational education, initiated by my predecessor and the predecessor of my colleague Mitterlehner, I would like to say, was simply continued. Let me say the following: Education reform is not a unique process, it is a rolling process. This is a process in which we can build on what has already been prepared or prepared for reforms, and on the other hand, in the government programme, we have taken a course of education from the smallest ones to the adults we are now working on, which we now want to realize, which we may also want to fill with new content. Everyone and everyone is talking about education, and that's a good thing. I believe that with today's joint proposal for the training of all those employed in pedagogical professions, we are laying a good foundation for everyone and everyone in their own way. Not only do we create these cooperation clauses so that there is legal certainty as to how cooperation agreements can be concluded, but also with the rectorates and with other bodies in the educational universities, we tighten up, we consolidate, there we give more competence. I believe that all of this gives good conditions and conditions for the education system in Austria not only to develop, but also to be very slowly among the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22056	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Draft federal law, which amends the university law and the university law, in 389 of the Supplements. Hiezu has a request for a separate vote made by Mr Maurer. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. We shall vote separately on Rule 1 Z8 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this part of the draft law to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 390 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:04:53]] 26. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 725/A(E) by Dr Andreas F. Karlsböck, colleagues on the obligation to publish scientific work at private universities and at the Danube University Krems (391 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22145	We're coming to the 26th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Deputies Univ.-Prof. Dr. Däderle spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22172	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! High house! Before I get to the subject, I would also like to stress, as Mr Karlsböck has already pointed out, that I am particularly pleased with the state of this request. It was a request of the opposition, So Mr Karlsböck, and I have always been disturbed by the ritual in the committees, that we have sent all the opposition requests, even if they were good, to the adjournment and thus to bury them with honor. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Once again, it has succeeded in making an absolutely meaningful request for a joint request. I am not a friend of rigid rituals and automated procedures, so I am very pleased. On the matter itself, which must therefore be supported: Scientific work by graduates at universities is one of the most important contributions in the field of scientific discourse. For example, dissertations are often the most important contributions that science is making. That is why, of course, it makes absolutely sense to make them known to the public and, above all, to the scientific public. There has been a small gap so far. While this is already regulated at universities, colleges and also educational universities, it was not regulated as a publication obligation at private universities and at the Danube University Krems. This is now being worked out, so to speak, and therefore, of course, this request is absolutely consistent. I strongly recommend that the request be accepted for three reasons. I have already mentioned one, namely the important contribution to scientific progress. A second reason is that we are also worthy of this sector, which is growing in Austria and which has not always been supported with great conviction, but which is important – it is a small but important contribution to the scientific breadth and depth. The third one is a small side effect: At the same time, a publication of scientific work is always a quality control, because then the scientific community of this work will accept, look at it and also appreciate its value. We therefore have several positive effects, and that is why I strongly recommend that this request be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22230	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22251	Ladies and gentlemen! I can join my colleague's daughter. He has already presented this in the matter. The issue is that thesis should also be published at private universities. This is a sensible measure. I can join him, too. I welcome the fact that we have been able to take up Mr Karlsböck's initiative, i.e. on the basis of a request from an opposition party, but also through an overall change, but we have achieved that all the parties have joined in this request. However, this is still due to the initiative of Mr Karlsböck, and I think that is a good sign of a living parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22286	I call Mr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22315	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything has already been said about the content: Scientific works have to face up to their essence after confrontation. To this end, it is necessary that they be published. This was written in the law in 1981, but it has not yet been applied to private universities. I would like to make one more point about the previous debate and the previous item on the agenda. What we heard before, ladies and gentlemen, was a bit distorted by what was actually the meaning of the decision-making. It is not about prohibiting or rejecting foreign students from studying in Austria and thus preventing internationality, but about ensuring sufficient places for the local students. It's about several ways. On the one hand, it is because we are bringing in movement on our request concerning the country of origin principle, and I cannot understand at all why in the speeches everyone has now explained that this is not possible. We must act as a people's representative if we recognize a problem, develop and bring in solutions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, we are talking about transfer payments, which, as has been said, is about getting back to the €600, 700 million we are paying too much in some form from the EU dedicated to these activities. And third – and I'm back on the subject – is about private universities. Of course, we also have a “two-class study society” in this country, because many are just avoiding private universities. And in Austria, if we are quite honest, we have no tradition in the field of private universities. Nevertheless, I am all the more pleased that real private universities are emerging in Austria and are now also a success story. We only have to distinguish here in the division. “Real private universities” means that they are actually financed 100 percent by the owner and students or by other donors. Today, so-called country universities are falsely also referred to as private universities. You have to keep the order apart. So I'm also making a confession to private universities here. As a third pillar of the higher education sector, they are a useful complement to local training. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, I am really pleased that there is broad agreement here. As I said, it is a new style that we find here in the Scientific Committee and whose outcome we all worked out together here. I can only hope that this goes on. Finally, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I would like to ask you now – because: Ladies first – also congratulate on their birthday.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22359	Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22380	It has already been said, or very much, on this request. It is very welcome that the final work must now also be published at private universities. There are special rules which have so far been applied and which are not actually available, for which there is actually no reason. It must always be the highest criterion in science that results are verifiable and also available to all other scientists, i.e. that scientific results and scientific findings are also available to the scientific community. In general, this is a field where we will have much to do in the next four years, too, as far as open access and the like are concerned, so that in general everything that is funded by public money needs to be made public. The publication of graduations also at private universities, as provided for in this request, is a good step and is of course also welcomed by us, and we also support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22416	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on the publication obligation for scientific work at private universities, which is attached to the Committee's report 391 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 60.) [[20:14:29]] 27. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (364 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the 2001 Wehrgesetz (380 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22466	We're coming to 27. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22493	Ladies and gentlemen! I was far from aware of the main outcome of the last National Council election. Since the deliberations in the National Defence Committee, it has been a little clearer to me: The main result of the last National Council election was that it was not certain, but perhaps the majority of the conditions in the Federal Army Commission for Complaints to the contrary of the government parties and the real threat existed that the new composition of the Federal Reform Commission SPÖ and ÖVP no longer had the majority in common. This is, of course, unbearable. How should Austria be governed if SPÖ and ÖVP do not together have the majority in the Federal Reform Commission? Imagine, the Federal Government is planning big reforms and the Federal Army Reform Commission is meeting and Freedom Party, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach together have a majority against SPÖ and ÖVP! [[Abg. Schönegger: Complaints Commission!]] – Of course, there was absolutely clear for the political leaders of SPÖ and ÖVP: We can't take that! Austria must be governed properly and reliably, and this does not go without a majority of the government in the Federal Heaviness Complaints Commission! Now there's a problem: This required a constitutional provision. So there was an opposition party in the boat. We were not ready for entry, neither were NEOS, nor the Stronach team. So a political group has remained: the Freedom Party. How do you get the Freedom Party into the boat? - Well, there's only one means: a post. Well, hold the Freedom Party. Now the objection of the Freedom Party or one of its spokespersons could be: That's nothing new! – I would have to say: Yes, that's true, it's really nothing new to get the Freedom Party's consent to a Constitutional Law or to any other agreement against handing over a small reward in the form of a post or a promotion without further notice. And that's exactly how it happened. We have experienced this in the National Defence Committee. And there will be a serious problem when one has to see how this House is dealing with majority voting, how much the fear of small commissions is – and by the way, there has never been a fight vote in the history of this Commission. [[Abg. Kickl: Everything where the greens are not in it is inappropriate, isn't it?]] And there is a need to buy the Freedom Party so that this Commission does not have a majority of opposition members either?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible! Just because you're not there, it's all indecent! That's the "logic"!]] [[Abg. Schönegger: This is a distortion of the facts!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That says a lot about the coalition and the stability of the coalition. That says even more about the Freedom Party. And more is not to be said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22569	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22591	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Just about you, Peter Pilz, I really would have expected two points. The first is that you would have said: It is an important step in this innovation that we increase the proportion of women in the German army, namely the military. – Not even a word is worth it to you! And otherwise, you always talk about the fact that there must be more women in all positions. - That's the first point. The second point is: I'm used to talking to Tacheles, too, and I'm just saying that during the discussions we pointed out the following: If I let this run after d’Hondt, it is a commission with well over 20 people. If we withdraw from d’Hondt with nine members, the two groups are not inside. I wanted them to be inside. What do you think, who came to me and just said: Let's take the blue one away!Unknown term type: "%s".? And then one of them came and said: We'll take the black one away! And then you came and said: Let us take one away from my group. I believe that this Commission has done a good job. We have a parliamentary use that has been practised for many years, and the three strongest ones – that is nowhere so written – are just the chairmen of this Commission, and this has proved to be the case. Now we've been looking for a way out and have said: How can we achieve that everyone is present without having a Commission, what do I know that is no longer manageable? How do we put that together? And I believe that this is an objective solution, one – and I really am – with which we have also tried to bring the closeness of the House back into these considerations – because it is, ladies and gentlemen, a parliamentary institution. I think the times are not easy and not funny, which is why I believe that we should really address this issue very seriously. I would like to thank all the interlocutors with whom we discussed in advance that we discussed this very objectively, and yet I believe that this outcome, which we have decided on in committee, is a good one, which also reflects the work that has been done for many, many years, so that no one has come to the custodian, no one has come under the wheels and succeeds in taking the new political groups into this Commission. I think that is a clean approach to democracy. It was very easy to take into account the quality and continuity, and I would say: I invite all those to whom the Federal Army, with all its concerns and needs, is a serious concern to take these decisions with us today.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22630	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22652	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear hypo-numbers and hypo-numbers! [[The speaker put a table on the speaker’s desk, which shows a diagram and reads on the following: “1,119 Defense budget as a percentage of GDP”.]] The Austrian army is in a dead end, that is the truth. The Austrian federal army has been in a political deadlock since the popular survey on military service, the German army is in a structural deadlock, since all the proposals of the Zilk Commission have been forgotten in the drawers of the Ministry of Defence, and the German army is mainly in a financial deadlock as a result of the threat of existence, in an irresponsible and short-sighted budgetary erodement of the German army. This one picture actually represents the entire miser of the Austrian federal army. [[the speaker points to the diagram]] It represents defense expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product over the last 30 years: a single downward red curve from the beginning of the day already modest 1.1 percent 30 years ago to today less than 0.6 percent. That is what we are finally doing in Europe. And in this situation, we would believe that the government parties, that the Minister of State would finally take action, would finally take approaches. And we had a very quiet hope: a little over two months ago, the 2018 structural concept was presented. What's happened since then? – Nothing, absolutely nothing has happened! But one thing we can do – one already! –: by constitutional law, to increase the Federal Commission of Lords. [[Abg. Schönegger:... join!]] Mr Pendl, you tried at the time to make me and the media aware that this is being done because of the fact that the NEOS and Team Stronach groups are coming to the Federal Army Commission, and now you are going to repeat it. So I don't know if you think me stupid or believe, I can't read a five-circular text. [[Abg. Pendl:... first nominated your people!]] – No, I quote from the Wehrgesetz § 4 para. 1: “Each political party represented in the National Council’s main committee is entitled to be represented in the Federal Parliamentary Commission.” – Citations. [[Abg. - Yes, eh!]] And in its last report in 2013, the Federal Commission itself wrote explicitly on page 8: ‘With reference to the outcome of the National Council election of 29 March 2016, the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Union and of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Union.’ On September 1, 2013, the Parliamentary Federal Heir Commission formed the following composition in its next term of office of 1 September 2013. ==References== December 2020:” – I continue to quote – “2 SPÖ, 2 ÖVP, 2 FPÖ, 1 GRÜNE, 1 TEAM STRONACH, 1 NEOS.” – Quote. This would, of course, lose the pleasant majority of 6 : 9 and the SPÖVP Group would only have four members under nine. That's the truth! So do not try to make me aware that this is only a matter for the small groups, so that they can also get in. We would definitely come in! And that with the possibility for women to do the military service is a fog grenade. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] I think the federal army itself has estimated that it might come from the state of 27 women in the militia to 50. That is the content of this reform! It is a fog grenade, it is a packaging to carry out something quite different, namely increasing the number of members to eleven, so that the SPÖVP Group retains its majority from six to eleven. It is shocking, I think, that even in the face of the current fundamental army crisis, the crisis in existence that threatens the army, the intrusion of majorities into the next legislative period – perhaps even in the near future, when it comes to new elections – has priority before addressing the problems of the federal army. Ladies and gentlemen from the opposition parties, the legal regulations of the Federal Army Commission are in the constitutional rank – I believe, for good reason – and I call on you not to grant the majority of the government the gift of the constitutional majority so that it will be the only result of the last two months that majority will be ceded by 2020. This government has not deserved it, it does not belong to it, and I believe that the army and the members of the Federal Army would be grateful to you – especially to the colleagues of the FPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22757	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22779	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since my esteemed colleague Claudia diaper – thank you, I give her here – will focus a little later on the encouraging creation of a better framework for the military activities of women, I will concentrate more on the subject of the changes in the Federal Parliamentary Committee. [[Abg. Kickl: (on the panel of Abg. Displaying Vavrik) The Table!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Give the Minister!]] [[the speaker lays the panel next to the speaker's desk]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this change in the composition was necessary due to the changed terms of office after the last National Council election, and nothing else is the case here. And, Mr Pilz, if you go out here and say that a constitutional provision is agreed if there is a post for it, then it was probably very revealing. You pointed your finger at someone else, and the thumb pointed at you. – This has now become relatively clear as you see it. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Pendl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Parliamentary Commission is the National Council's audit and control body and is at the disposal of the soldiers – all soldiers – and the Federal Army Commission is, so to speak, the lawyer of our soldiers. [[Abg. Kickl: Next to the People's Procuratorate!]] Each complaint has become and will certainly continue to be carefully assessed and treated in the future for the best of knowledge and conscience, without regard to party political backgrounds, even if or precisely because each party represented in Parliament is represented by its seat and vote in this Board of Appeal. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to really sincerely thank the members of the Board of Appeal for their great personal commitment. In particular, I would like to mention the chairmans of the last years, Paul Kiss, Anton Gaál and Walter Seledec. You have really done very, very excellent work! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] In particular and personally, however, I would like to thank the last and senior chairman, the Member of the National Council, other than Paul Kiss. He is for me – and certainly not only for me – an excellent lawyer of the soldiers and has performed this function with very, very great personal commitment, with a heart for the matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vavrik.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end with a very striking quote from the President-in-Office of the Council, Paul Kiss: “Human rights are indivisible, just right and just in a system of command and obedience. In a federal army, which is the democratic cornerstone of the Republic of Austria, all soldiers may feel accepted and protected in the future.” I think that it is more important not to describe the Federal Commission. And Mr Vavrik, I do not understand, I am sorry. You yourself are at the request of NEOS, and now you are here and bet against this request. [[Abg. Vavrik: No, I voted against it in committee too!]] So maybe look. You and the other Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and They are themselves on the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22903	Mr Bösch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22925	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals agree with this novel. The fact that women who have made the training service can also volunteer for the military is a matter of course. But now to the Parliamentary Federal Heir Commission: I would also like to thank Mr Gaál, Mr Kiss and Mr Seledec on behalf of the Liberals for the work they have done in recent years. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Pendl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vavrik, it was indeed necessary to find a new mode, how the Federal Commission will be occupied in the future, because we had six members and three chairmen so far, and that is the same with the new regulation that we will decide today, with the addition that the NEOS and the Stronach team as the main committee of the National Council will also have a seat. [[Abg. Vavrik: We would have been in it anyway!]] If we had expanded this according to the d’Hondt’s system, then we would be at a membership number of about 20 people, depending on how many small parties we have in plenary. [[Abg. Vavrik:... no rule...! They deliberately say the untruth! According to the law, we now also have a seat!]] – I do not deliberately say the untruth, nor willfully, Mr Vavrik! I think you blew up something here that it's not worth being blown up as much as you do. We'll see it all sober. We will therefore again have exactly six members and three chairmans in the Federal Commission, and NEOS and the Stronach team will be there. It's all right to be glad that we've arranged this way! [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] We also today have to decide that future chairmen must be active national councils at least in their election. We also think this is reasonable, because the Federal Commission is an institution of the National Council and can also, in future, not only deal with complaints on the extraordinary path, but can also, on its own initiative, make auditing requirements. That is to say, we will also need to work more closely with the National Council, and I think this is reasonable and very meaningful. So if I may sum up, ladies and gentlemen, then we can say that with this new regulation we have kept the democratic latitude represented in the National Council, and we can also save money, because the presidents who will be national councils will not receive compensation – compensations that would be paid to the Department of Defence's department. Overall, it is an excellent scheme. We agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e22986	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23008	Mr President. Minister! High house! The first point, apart from dispute, is the participation of women in military exercises. The second point is disputed, which concerns the Federal Commission. – This is a constitutional law or a constitutional provision, so we need a two-thirds majority – we: the government has it with the FPÖ. This majority does not depend on the Stronach team and does not depend on the NEOS either. I do not believe that there is an opportunity to make fun of the importance of the Federal Army Commission, the voting behaviour of a party or the d’Hondt’s system on and on itself. From our point of view, we can simply and simply judge what we think is fair and what we do not think is fair. The problem is that, according to the previous provision, not only the d’Hondt system applies, but there is a special minority right for the small groups, so that they are represented with at least one vote. If that were not the case and if only the d’Hondt system were applicable, then it could also be that we little ones are not inside. In order to preserve this special minority right and at the same time to realize the d’Hondt’s system by the majority, it is necessary to increase from nine to eleven, then both requirements have been satisfied: that we have one vote each and that the majority have their majority in the Federal Hero. I do not think that is unfair, that is why there is this majority, and therefore, in reality, all interests are respected. There are uses that you simply recognize. If we choose the President or the President of the House here, then he or she will come from the strongest group, even if there may be other majority relationships. This applies to the second group and this applies to the third group. And that is exactly how it is a good use that the majority here also have the majority there. And if we can retain our special minority rights, that's fair. There is no reason to exchange something here or to assume to someone that he has been paid by getting a post or similar. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To eliminate all suspicions: We didn't get anything for that either. I therefore believe that, out of good democratic use, one can quite agree with that. By the way, I believe that the federal army is too low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23059	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Smartly reported. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23080	Thank you very much, Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The present legislative proposal, as already stated in the speeches, essentially contains two key points: on the one hand, the opening of voluntary military exercises for women – an implementation provided for in the report on military service reform as a legislative measure – and on the other, a change in the composition of the Federal Parliamentary Committee. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Allow me to take this opportunity to take on an initiative of the National Council of 3 March. In July 2013, he decided to implement the legislative measures in connection with the reform of the military service by means of Resolution 314/E. In accordance with this resolution, I would like to briefly explain what legislative measures contained in the report on the reform of the military service have been implemented by me so far. – to the measures in detail. Point 13.2. Recreational care or provision of leisure facilities: The measure was implemented by means of administrative court adjustment law. Point 13.3. Adapting the rules on day-to-day, waiting and guard services: The modification of the ADV with regard to the voluntary service is before the National Council and will be held in the main committee on 17 November. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Point 13.4. Legal basis for information officers: Adopted by the Administrative Courts' Adjustment Act. Point 13.5. Contributing the status of the person concerned to the performance of: Adopted by the Administrative Courts' Adjustment Act. Point 13.6. ‘Führerscheinung’ (Führerscheinsprüfung) in the context of the position and the corresponding recognition: Adopted in July 2014 by way of an own-initiative proposal. Point 13.7. Possible reduction of the first commitment period in cases of military exercises: This is still open, as it is part of the talks about the military concept in context with the ÖBH 2018 structural adjustment package. Point 13.8. Adjustment of the contribution base for pension insurance to actual remuneration and point 13.9. General recognition of the presence and training services on time-dependent rights: This is a non-legislative project, in which discussions were held with the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. In the end, a distance from implementation has been removed. Point 13.10. Voluntary report on militation exercises for women: This is just before the plenary session for decision-making, and I shall come to the details afterwards. Point 13.11. Introducing a ‘competence balance’: This was decided by means of administrative court adjustment law. Point 13.12. Improvements for the militia: After an in-depth evaluation, experts have found that there is no further need. Ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore summarize and hold: To date, five legislative measures have been implemented by means of an appropriate legislative amendment and two further measures are available to the National Council for decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, after I have complied with the mandate of the resolution, I now come to the specific item on the agenda, namely the amendment of the Wehrgesetz. The amendment is based on the implementation of the legislative measure in point 13.10. Apart from a few formal citations, the improvement of the situation of women in the field of militia is the central point of the proposal. We are expanding the range of opportunities available to women in the militia. De facto – and this can be addressed directly – is the creation of an additional equal opportunity of employment. So that this offer becomes possible in the same way as the ruling and existing legal order, we resolve this with a constitutional lex specialis provision in the Wehrgesetz. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, we have finally followed our words with actions: The implementation of the military reform has already progressed! At this point, I would like to thank all my staff in the department, but also the military experts for their hard work and tireless commitment, which they have made since the draft report on military service reform. In conclusion, Mr Vavrik, on your remarks, which have been somewhat wider than the German army's law on the Austrian army: I know from conversations that both of us share the concern about the future of our army. However, I do not share the assessment and the conclusions you have drawn in some areas! In concrete terms: Point one: The 2010 reform is still in implementation in sub-areas. And on your appropriate question, honourable Member: After when will one finally address this?, namely, on the question of conceptual composition us. I can tell you that in conjunction with the concept of ÖBH 2018 – and I will comment on it at the hour, but with complete seriousness –: I don't care about the implementation! And second, I conclude with the comment: Every day more, where implementation is not possible, our army costs money that we don't have! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23182	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23203	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The objective of this amendment, which has been decided by majority vote in the Committee, is on the one hand to significantly increase the proportion of women in functions in the Federal Army's operational organisation and, on the other hand, to adapt the number of members of the Federal Parliamentary Committee to the current mandate distribution in the National Council. As a result of the change in these novels, women will be completely equal in the field of military exercises with men in the future. This means, in turn, that after voluntary reporting, women will no longer be able to withdraw from their obligation. For me, it is essential that women be specifically recruited, promoted and supported in their career planning. The Austrian Federal Army should be an attractive service provider for both men and women. For 16 years now, the Austrian Federal Army has also been open to women. ==References== On April 5, 1998, the first nine women joined the Styrian hunter regiment 5. ==References== In November 2014, the number of women in the German army increased to 390 female soldiers. These are more precisely considered 64 officers, 135 officers and 191 recruits. The most frequently occupied positions are corporals, staff and watchmen, fännrichs, chiefs and seniors. The female rate tends to rise. But in international comparison, Austria still – and this is actually a bit sad for us women – is one of the last places. I see one reason for this in the lack of social anchoring of the professional image of Soldatin. That's where the Austrian federal army is required. In the future, it needs to be further explained which interesting career opportunities, but also different career opportunities, are found by women in the Austrian federal army. However, I am pleased that this year the first officer was raised to the general rank, and I am confident that Ms. Brigadier Andrea Leitgeb will follow several more women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23243	This is what Mrs Le Pen has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23265	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Even though Mr Vavrik spoke of a nebula grenade as regards the change for women, and the change from the outset has agreed on efficiency: What would be the alternative? – Not to reform it?- Oh, my God! So I wouldn't think that was a good alternative! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you enter the terms "Woman" and "Bundesherheer" in Google, you come to the file sometime, which means: “Why are there hardly any women in the federal army?” Since the government agreement also aims to increase the proportion of women in the Austrian federal army, this question is well justified. The Austrian Federal Army has been able, as has been mentioned, to make women for 16 years, in the army's career, with equal opportunities, with quite equal opportunities and opportunities. It would, of course, be exciting to think about what the reasons for the fact that the proportion of women is still very modest after 16 years. Of these, about 390 women are already more than 80 athletes. There are about 70 female officers, and almost half of them are members of the military service, i.e. doctors, pharmaceuticals, veterinary doctors. There are not really so many members of the team. The fact that the first woman has now become Brigadier is gratifying, but can only be a first step. So it can be said that the issue of women in the Federal Army still has air up, so it is also contained in the Government Convention. And therefore it will also be exciting which measures and strategies will be available to achieve the objective that means: More women in the federal government! The amendment of the Wehrgesetz, which we decide today, is a small but not insignificant step towards genuine equality, for it contains not only the same rights but also the same obligations in the field of military exercises. It may also be an indication that it is also a matter of showing women that they are really taken seriously with their demand for equal rights and obligations. As I said, it is a small but important step that we are taking here today. As we also decide on changes in the composition of the Federal Parliamentary Committee, my suggestion or whatever one would like to say: When it comes to complaints by women in the Federal Army, I also ask to ensure that the relevant experts are available. Of course, we of the ÖVP will take this into account and keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23316	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 380 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I shall first, within the meaning of Article 82(2) (1) of the Rules of Procedure, determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. [[Abg. Lopatka: (in the direction of NEOS, who sit down) That was your request!]] The request was accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to do so. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:49:44]] 28. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (346, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law prohibiting the use of symbols of the grouping of Islamic State and other groupings (symbol law) (412 d.b.) 29. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (351 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the border control law and the citizenship law 1985 (413 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23372	We come to points 28 and 29 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23399	Ladies and gentlemen! I note that there is no particular interest in a discussion on the fight against terrorism in Austria, in particular in the Austrian People's Party. [[By Abg. Lopatka meets several Members for a discussion.]] Then we will have to hold the debate without the EIA. [[The round of talks at Abg. Lopatka dissolves again.]] [[Abg. You bastard! No glasses?- Oh, my God!]] [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] – Ah, the ÖVP is back! Welcome! Now on the real topic: The Federal Government is basically trying something very reasonable: She tries to find legal answers to a problem that moves us all: that there are people, with or without Austrian citizenship, who leave our territory and participate in terrorist actions in Syria, Iraq and possibly elsewhere. And now the Federal Government is trying to regulate this on new provisions in the border control law, citizenship law and the symbol law. This is obviously not a particularly exciting issue for the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Lopatka, in turn, speaks to several Members of his group.]] If the EIA had taken the whole thing a little more seriously, there might have been some better proposals. So, and now I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, especially the clubman Dr. Lopatka, something I heard yesterday evening at a long meeting at the invitation of the Chechen Diaspora in Vienna. [[Abg. Lopatka interrupts his conversation and turns to the speaker.]] More than half of the jihadists – and you know this too, Mr. Lopatka – who have made their way from the Austrian territory towards Syria and who have obviously arrived there are Czech origins. It is necessary to be very careful – and many speakers pointed out yesterday – to draw a flat-rate conclusion from it or to derive a flat-rate conviction from the Chechens in Austria. You always have to think of one thing: The approximately 25 000 Chechens currently living in Austria account for about 0.3 percent of the Austrian population. Of these, perhaps just over 80 are on the road as jihadists in Syria and Iraq – that's bad enough! That is about 0.3 percent of the Chechens who are in Austria. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Much more were!]] But what happened to this 0.3 percent? And I think that is a crucial point. You know what fates were described yesterday? – Young men from Chechnya – and it is mainly about young men – come as refugees from devastated villages, from destroyed and persecuted families to Austria and usually seek asylum right. Who if not these people have solid and very, very good asylum grounds?- Oh, my God! And then these families are entering the asylum process. Yesterday, Chechen mothers described what actually happens, what it means for young traumatized people when they live for years in uncertainty in Austria, where you have to ask yourself: Can I remain at all, or am I perhaps being relocated to my destroyed and torn back home country from civil war? - That's what it's all about! And then recruiters come and say: With us, you're who! We'll take you seriously! We need you! We want you! – Very few are involved in this application. But it is primarily people, refugees, asylum seekers, where Austrian integration policy has simply failed. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Business Refugees!]] Okay, the Kadyrow Party and the Russian Party are throwing in here: Business refugees! They have become acquainted with the regime there often enough and solidarized. They have a political responsibility. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] But we have the responsibility to integrate these people, to give them an opportunity to immunise them against all the attempts to apply for it, which there are also in Austria, especially in Vienna, by hate preachers and radicals. - That's the point! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The government now sees nothing but a badge law – my colleague Albert Steinhauser will comment in detail on this – a border control law and a citizenship law. Do you know what it means to withdraw citizenship in the event of double citizenship? We've asked how many things we're doing. Are they two, three, or five? The Minister of the Interior did not know. There will be so few, if there are such people at all, that this is simply an alibi law in the fight against terrorism. But when it comes to – and I believe that at least one party in this House wants to do so – to withdraw Austrian citizenship as the only one, then think about what you really do! Then think about it! Faith You really are that a person who is so far away that he says: I'm going into a civil war and I'm ready to let myself be killed there! that a person says in such an extreme situation: Yes, but if I'm taken away from citizenship, I won't! - That's absolute nonsense! This is a completely absurd and non-realistic assumption! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] But I know something else: If people want to get out of this scene again – and this applies both to mercenaries, because there are still strong legal provisions, as well as to jihadists, and these are often extremely young people who have to give a chance to come back and integrate themselves, also in order to elevate a security risk for the Republic of Austria – and if you take away those citizenship, you drive them into a grey zone from which there is almost no return. As a punishment, as a deterrent, this does not work, and as a measure for people who may then say in their despair: I'm looking for a way back, blocking this path back. – This is bad and dangerous security populism! Of course, I support every useful measure to combat terrorism: the strengthening of the police, the sharp criminal police and criminal fight against hate preachers and candidates – to the symbol law Albert Steinhauser will still say the necessary – but I am against dangerous alibitions. And this approach to citizenship is exactly an alibi action of this kind! We will not be able to pick up the shortcomings that we have built in integration policy over the last ten or 15 years, especially in relation to Czech refugees. But it would be far more important to take care of these problems than to focus on populism around citizenship. That is why, as I believe, we will rarely do, this time we will reject these measures, which do nothing or very little to combat terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23547	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23569	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the Austrian police and the Austrian security forces on Friday a week ago have proved in every sense that they are doing far more than what you, Mr Pilz, wanted to do here for the best. This clearly demonstrates their access in a concerted action on Friday a week ago at four o'clock early. They have accessed almost three dozen places at the same time, arrested a number of suspects and confiscated documents and materials. This shows, I think, very well that we are not going along with a populist debate, Mr Pilz, but that we can achieve the greatest security for the Austrians with concrete, intensive, over a year-long investigation work by Austrian police officers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also simply a need for us to adopt these laws, which are in place today, Mr Pilz. It is far more than a symbolic act. Why don't you talk to the police who are on the way on the subways and who are provoked by symbols of the Islamic state in the subway stations, and they have no way of going about it today? With the new law, they will have the opportunity to take action against it in future, and that is right and important, Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies, of course, to the question of foreign fighters going abroad. Yes, international law binds us in a sense, namely that we do not produce stateless people. In addition, this is also a question that we need to address internationally. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] We already have legal provisions today that someone serving in a foreign army loses citizenship. The fact that this must also apply to someone who is involved in a paramilitary unit or in a terrorist organisation abroad is probably obvious, Mr Pilz. But it's remarkable. I think that the nervousness of your speech can only be meant to distract you from your own things here. Mr Pilz, we had a really interesting debate in committee. The Greens have tabled an amendment, and I would very much like to quote some of it, ladies and gentlemen. It is truly remarkable that the Greens propose to make a differentiation on this issue, namely to distinguish between good and evil Foreign Fighters. It is truly remarkable that this proposal comes from the Greens. In the request made by Mr Korun, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the explanatory statement – and that is really interesting, I quote – that: For example, it would be possible for Kurdish Austrians to travel to Syria or Iraq to stand by their relatives and friends against the massacres and attacks of the IS. They would automatically lose citizenship under the scheme. The Kurdish defenders, however, are practically allies against the terrorist militias. Here a differentiated view should take place, especially since Austrians, for example, fought against Franco and fascism in the Spanish War of 1936 with international brigades. - Quote. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, then!]] It is truly remarkable that in 2014 you will take action from 1936. At that time there was no mention of the neutrality of the Austrian state at all. It is remarkable that you are of the opinion that we should treat foreign fighters who go abroad for a “good” purpose, under quotation marks, in order to compete there, differently than those who participate in terrorist military actions. This is an interesting position of the Green Party here in the house, and I believe that people can make a very good picture of your seriousness in this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23620	The next item is Mr Hagen's speech. I'll set you 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23642	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Before: We will agree to the symbol law. It's only symbolic, it won't change a miracle; I don't think that's how it deters anyone. But it's okay, you can agree. But now I would like to refer to the concrete, namely something that has already been discussed hot by my previous speakers. And I am concerned about the border controls that have been addressed here. I would like to explain why we cannot accept this part of the law. This is due to the fact that it is simply not feasible, ladies and gentlemen. I'm executive, I know a little bit about matter. Today we have Schengen. Schengen means that one cannot control directly at the border, but only a few hundred meters further in the hinterland, that is, at some distance to the border crossing. This law states that a person under 18 years of age and, for example, when crossing the border into Switzerland, must have a parental leave declaration. But in times when we know who falsifies the signature of his parents, when he has written a stain on a schoolwork or whatever, do not seriously believe that this is feasible for an executive official! First of all, he must not stand directly at the border, second, the guy in the hinterland can say that he does not want to cross the border, but only wants to walk down to the Rhine. So that's not feasible. There is another reason why we cannot be: citizenship. It has now been addressed. Now, my colleague, Pilz, has been intoxicated again. [[Abg. Kickl: There he is!]] - Right there. We have already discussed this in the Committee. I think that is a little risky, what Mr Pilz has to say about it. Let us be honest with those who have citizenship, get all social benefits and have the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amon has already said this correctly: If someone serving in a foreign military power is deprived of citizenship, then of course someone serving in a terrorist army abroad, and if someone participates in any military action abroad, too. Because the Austrians are not in war, ladies and gentlemen. We're not a NATO member, we're not on the outside. So that's all right, it's clear. I would even like to go further than this government proposal, and therefore I will not give this my consent. I am concerned about the fact that everyone is really deprived of citizenship, whether he has a double citizenship or not. And if he is stateless, then he no longer has these citizenship rights, ladies and gentlemen, and this should be a dissuasive example. I think you have to see that already – Mr. Pilz, as our opinions are completely different – that this cannot be rewarded. That is why this bill should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23678	The next item is Mr Pendl's speech. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23700	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: A lot has already been said. It's partly right, but not always right. But let me say the following: Those who have been praised in this Chamber for this republic, for our constitution and for our legal assets do not need to discuss whether or not to judge according to our constitution or our laws. I'm sorry, but the That is why I lack any understanding. I have always said quite openly and honestly: Violence does not legitimise violence, and there cannot be a twofold in war play and fighting. This is so easy to judge. I think everyone has to judge according to our legal system, our fundamental values and our federal constitution. If he is outside this arch, then he has the responsibility to bear, and society, if you want it, the state, has to respond to it. I understand that we may be able to discuss internationally, but also nationally, what we can improve in certain developments, no question at all. But I honestly say that the state – and it is now grudging whether it is 0.3 percent or 0.1 percent – has to respond. I think many of us couldn't even imagine getting into the living room over television and over the Internet, like people in 21. By the century being beheaded, and by being able to inspire young people to go to war for such a thing, I say now quite consciously, it is none. When, if not now, does the state have to react? Mr Hagen, I'm telling you quite honestly, just as a former gendarm and police officer you need to know: If symbols can be easily used in public places, in public institutions without any aggressment, then the state must act against them! That's not a question for me at all. [[Abg. That's where we're gonna be!]] That this is not a sharp or a strong thing, we all know. But you can't tolerate that! If you're against it, just tell yourself, you're gonna let that happen. I don't want to appreciate that. We know what is happening in Vienna, in the agglomerations in Austria there and there, and I am glad that this question has been raised. Now I say, I am also grateful that we have been operating this hotline for almost half a month, to which concerned neighbors, parents and everyone can turn when the children, I say now under quotes, “get out of the row”. But I'm sorry if you get to know something's wrong, you have to react. I mean, this is the closest thing, if even parents come, who say, we ask you, does something that we also think, also in the European Union, also within the framework of Schengen, that we take action and, if we already do, say: Hello, not without the parents' consent. That's, I think, the closest thing. For being highly stylized and against it, I lack any understanding; I say that quite openly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that much will be discussed on the issue of citizenship. But I say it again, as I started: Everyone in the country has to be guided by our constitution and by our legal status. I'm sorry, but the That also answers the question of how we deal with citizenship. When we look at this, we get into a situation that the Austrian population, which does not deserve the youth or, if you want to, the entire society. And I also say quite openly, on the other hand, with all the hardness of the state and all the measures must be taken. I think the laws are correct. I would like to say once again that it was at the time the discussion whether we are doing it on an initiative proposal to send a signal immediately. We have agreed that we are doing so in a broad and balanced manner. I'll bet you do that. But I don't want us to say: That's actually not right, that's too little good and that's perhaps not suitable!, and watch here. We should not look at all, but we should create framework conditions so that the police can work very easily. Dear Peter! One thing is quite frankly said: I'm curious about the discussion. In Bälde we have the discussions about a new BAT law. I'm curious if we're going to make it as easy as you said when it comes to these issues as regards state protection. I'm for that when you say all the measures for the police, but then we also have to implement it, not only in Sunday's speeches. I invite you to agree to these templates.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23746	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. I'll give it to you and set the clock to 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23789	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is our duty not to pass laws where no law is necessary, especially if there are already laws with which what is to be achieved by this new law is to be achieved. I'm talking about the symbol law here. What is the purpose of the symbol law? I'll read it to you: ‘The project shall contribute to the objective of maintaining the high level of internal security in Austria, in particular by combating crime, combating terrorism and monitoring of traffic.’ The analysis also states: “Such symbols are also used in Austria as a call for the glorification or support of violence. It is intended to prevent the spread of terrorist ideas and radicalisation and recruitment activities in Austria by prohibiting the use of terrorist symbols.” This is, in principle, a claim. You lack any empirical basis for this. No empirical evidence is given that such laws could have a preventive effect in any form. It is a symbolic law, and the suspicion is that it also has a symbolic effect, that is, no effect at all. That is why other reasons have been found in the Committee to legitimise this law. Here the wish has been expressed that these symbols are not used in the sense of a pop culture. It is said that there are young people who drive around the subway with IS caps. This too is a claim, at best anecdotic knowledge. And even if: The goal of action is not to prevent a pop culture. The BAT would have had it, if people were to mark, at best easier to apply existing laws. There is no need to tolerate, I would like to say to Mr Pendl, because there are existing laws that penalize the hatred and the acknowledgment of violence and their spread. For example, § 282a StGB pönizes the call for or acknowledgment of terrorist crimes. § 278f StGB forbids the guidance to commit a terrorist crime. § 1 Marking Act 1960 punishes the wearing and using of symbols and badges of prohibited organizations. That means we don't need a new law. It's enough if we use these laws. What you are not saying is that this law is part of a package of legislation, which includes not only the two others that can be found on this agenda today, but also the Islam law, which is to be carried by Parliament in the beginning of next week. A Constitutional Committee for the 18th century will soon be set up. It will be convened in December so that it can be quickly overturned before the end of the year. With this law, Muslims in Austria are to pay for the sins of the Islamic State. With this law, you suspect Muslims to be flat-rate. At the same time, you want to isolate Austrian Muslims internationally and create an Austrian Islam that you can control. That is not an answer to terrorism! Seeing You don't have the paradox that you control exactly the people who are as victims of the IS as well as other non-Muslims? Of course, there are problems with Islamic organizations. However, these are not to be resolved by these laws, but by police investigation, as we have also experienced through the access last Friday. Police and BAT are doing a good job. Of course, we want to take action against hatred and terrorism, and we have sufficient laws to do so. The symbol law does not fulfill the intended purpose, but only shifts this problem from the visibility. Don't put out red herrings! Invent You don't have laws that are ineffective! And neither do we pass laws that are ineffective!
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23866	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23887	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The previous speakers, Hagen and Alm, have deeply disappointed me; Mr Hagen is even more so because he is a former police officer or still a police officer. I understand my colleague Alm. He has nothing to do with police work, and therefore it is probably not so easy for him to understand how it makes sense to have administrative penalties in addition to judicial penalties. Mr Alm, you are quite right. There are a lot of criminal offences, about a dozen, about the fight against terrorist organisations in Austria. But in order to be able to take action there is a need to suspect the fulfillment of a criminal record. And you know very well that there are many people who are being imprisoned by these terrorist organizations in countries and who are commissioned not to set up criminal offences but to advertise them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Alm.]] And those who try to draw attention to themselves with symbols. That is why it is precisely the right access to put the symbols of these terrorist groups under a new threat, so that the police can handle these people at an early stage, so that they can no longer be able to place a criminal record under criminal law. Mr Alm, this is a preventive law, as we can only wish. And I thank the Ministry of the Interior for the preparations in this case. This brings more security to Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, it is quite clear that we reject atrocities, crimes, killings, as the Islamic terrorist organizations preexist in parts of the world. That contradicts any democratic attitude towards values. And that's why we created our own administrative criminal record with the symbol law. Ladies and gentlemen and my dear seers! Austria is fighting Islamic terror in the world and, as Mr Pendl has said, does not allow such persons to receive in any way an opportunity, in the form of promotions in an Austrian democratic legal system. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I thank the Minister of the Interior and the officials of the Ministry of the Interior today and every day for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what we decide today is not only that we adopt a law aimed at keeping people of international terror away from our country, but also that the rightful children of our children and young people should be assured that they cannot be so easily expelled from such organizations for acts of war abroad, for a so-called Holy War, which is never a Holy War. For this purpose, the Border Control Act now allows our border authorities, if there is a reasonable suspicion that the persons without the consent of their rightful guardians can take the trip to combat acts in Syria or elsewhere, to hold them back at the border. We thus make sure that there are no more such cases that are then reported around the world when Austrian youths have believed that they must go into the “Holy War”. This will be prevented by this new law in the future. This is the added value of this new law. And this is good for our Austrians. And thanks again to all the officials and executives of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23964	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e23985	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are not only discussing the citizenship law, but also the symbol law. We will agree with the symbol law which prohibits the IS symbols, but I believe that in a democracy such bans must be justified precisely and they should remain the exception. Austria is aware of a law that prohibits the NS symbols or the symbols of prohibited organizations in connection with the NS ideology. And there are good reasons for that. This is due to the historical responsibility of the Republic of Austria, the clear credo “Never again Fascism”. It is a historical obligation that there should be no further provocations among these symbols and that we ensure that organizations never again organize themselves under these symbols. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the IS, it is only stored differently outside. But if you are credible against right-wing extremism, he must not close his eyes even in Islamic fundamentalism and must face reality. And I do this with some credibility, because we Greens, colleague Alm, have fought many laws that have restricted civil rights under the pretext of combating terrorism. But where we will not see, Austria becomes the ISIS recruitment country, so that young people will be sent to war and terror under these symbols, if parents – yesterday there has been this conference – stay behind, stay broken, and we say: These are all myths, the baseball cap on the subway is a myth! When you go through the city with open eyes, you can see the symbols – not at every corner, and that's good, but if you look exactly: An IS flag was seen on a pro-gaza demonstration. I saw myself – that's not a myth – in a subway someone wearing a baseball cap with the IS symbol. You also have to recognize the symbols. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] I've seen a flag blowing out of a window in Vienna. You have to go through the city attentively. And what I don't want is that IS symbols become part of everyday culture, and that's what I mean seriously, and thus become a kind of pop and protest culture. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] It is true that – and this is exactly the problem when you listen to your parents – because you don't feel accepted because you want to protest, gather together. They are serious people who deal with this question and say: From the disco there are three months in the jihad. These are not liberals who have any fantasies, but these are serious university professors who deal with the phenomenon of Islamism and say it takes less than three months to recruit. Therefore, in a democracy, it is permitted to prohibit, prohibit or prohibit an organization that recruits people to rape, tow and murder to Syria. That must remain the exception. This is a special situation. But one thing is clear: We are not going to look away from it, but we are also seeing the responsibility, because we are serious about our discussion of totalitarian ideologies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24034	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darabos. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24055	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Steinhauser's remarks have now given me some comfort, because I was a bit unspeakable because of Mr Alm's statements, so to speak, under the motto that symbols should not be banned, since this does not do anything. – This could then apply equally to the NS Prohibition Act. And honestly, I don't understand this attitude. I also do not understand the attitude of Mr Pilz insofar as he rationally – he may correct me if I am wrong now – has meant that integration policy is to blame for the radicalisation of people in Austria. [[Abg. Pillow: Missing!]] - That's just not true. This is an insurrection of this story. [[Abg. Pilz: That's what the Minister herself said!]] We have 160 people in Austria, including women – 10 percent women – who were willing and willing to move into Jihad. But to make the integration policy in Austria responsible, I think it is simply a completely exaggerated interpretation and also a false interpretation. It is not only a symbolic step, but it is also a matter of expressing quite clearly that Austria is distanced from this IS-terrorism. That's not a story that's now done with a law on the symbols. Everyone sees the videos that come over the Internet every day, see what radical grouping that terrorist group is. And any measure, any legal measure of Austria, which also symbolizes that we are against, is a right one. It is so - I am already with you, Mr Pilz - that there are young people in Austria who are vulnerable to this. But with a clear legal attitude also towards these people, those who – we can also have a conversation if you want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – So: In my view, a clear legal regime for holding back the propaganda of IS terror is also important. The second point concerning these border controls, which I would like to address quite openly, is: I believe that we also protect young people in Austria. We also see the reports coming from Syria, where young people from Austria, especially women who have followed this blinding, live that these people want to return but cannot return. If by means of a legal decision we can prevent people from going there at all, then from my point of view this is also a protection for them. Of course, it may also be that one travels through Bratislava or through Turkey or at any time to Syria, but as an Austrian Parliament and the Austrian Federal Government in particular, we should ensure that law is made clear that minors cannot travel to this war area without the consent of the parents. I therefore consider these two new legislative innovations to be important, and the Social Democratic Party will, of course, agree. I would also expect NEOS to consider their attitude a little bit and give themselves a boost and yet also in the sense of those young people who may be vulnerable to this law novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24111	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24132	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers in front of the screens! To the Border Control Act, which is indeed part of the government documents we are dealing with today and on which we will vote: The motivation of the Federal Government to prevent young people from going to a bloody war, killing people and possibly being murdered itself is very, very comprehensible. We also support this motivation and find it important and correct, because we all believe, I think that the participation of minors in fighting, in wars, in atrocities in the child's well-being hurts, human rights, of course, also hurts because other people are pitied. We can't want minors, young people to go to war. That's where the direction is. The formulation of the government template, however, is unfortunately stiff and sloppy. We also discussed it in the Committee on the Interior. At one point there is explicit talk of “crossing the border” and elsewhere only of“ leaving. ” Cross-border crossing is known not only as an exit, but also as an entry into the federal territory, and there we see problems pre-programmed. It is anything but to rule out that there will be bizarre cases where young people are standing at the border, want to enter and then are asked: Did your parents even allow you to enter Austria? So that's not clear. In the Government template, this is not regulated to the last detail, however, as is necessary in the case of intervention in this right, in freedom of travel would be. After this is not ensured, the execution is bad in our eyes, but the motivation is, as I said, comprehensible, supportive and as a motivation also has our support. Second point, also discussed in the Committee on the Interior: the introduction of an extra administrative penalty, although both the applicable passport law and the Foreign Police Act already lay down administrative penalties for illegal entry and exit or for a missing travel document. In this case too, legal implementation is not good and will cause problems. Third: the Government's bill on citizenship law. It is possible to deny dual citizenship in such cases. This is possible by simple decision in the National Council. It is only if one imagines that people who want to go to a bloody war for murder and murder will be able to stop them by threatening to deny dual citizenship that one is unfortunately very naïve. It won't work like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] This is obviously in keeping with your need for punishment, but to announce it as a prevention measure or to take it seriously as a prevention measure will not work. All the more important is a real prevention policy. And I would like to expressly mention that the hotline or a consulting agency that has now become the subject has now been established – after months of announcement. I have already welcomed this and have said that we have also put forward concrete proposals. This is a first important step. In the next few months, we will consider together whether this advisory body works as a contact point for relatives, parents of vulnerable young people, and potentially radicalised young people. We must look at this together so that it does not become an alibi measure. But, of course, other measures are also necessary, and I come back to integration policy once again, because when young people feel included, if they feel that they are part of this society, with all the duties and rights, then radicalists have almost no chance of drawing these young people to their side, to mobilize them for their cruel and cruel war. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That is why the appeal to the Federal Government: Take preventive work seriously, because only in this way can we jointly withdraw the ground from terrorism and recruitment for terror in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24200	Mr Brandstetter spoke next time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24221	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I may speak to you today in the representation of Mrs. Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitnerganz briefly says a few words about these legal measures, which we propose as the Federal Government. As far as the Terror Symbols Act is concerned, it is clear: It is also intended to prohibit symbols and similar representations of the IS terrorist group in Austria. They all know that the amendment to the Border Control Act will also give the border control bodies an authorisation to check whether the consent is granted. The European Union has a role to play in the development of the European Union. There should also be restrictions in the Citizenship Act. In the event that someone is involved in armed struggles abroad, this should also have the consequences of citizenship law, which is quite understandable. By the way, there are not so few cases that would be affected, namely double-citizenships, which often arise only when someone already receives Austrian citizenship and after that, later, which is actually not permitted, accepted the one of his original homeland. What I'm telling you now is nothing new. But I would like to take the opportunity to tell you shortly something that happened last week. I was in Brussels last week at the Council of Justice, which partly overlapd with the Council of Interior Ministers. We have used the opportunity there to discuss for quite an open two hours all the Ministers of Justice of the European Union about this completely novel phenomenon of jihadism, which affects so many young people, who can be seduced here, whose religious feelings are abused. A very novel phenomenon, for which there can of course be no empirical evidence. But one thing has become clear in this debate, which has also enabled me to compare the situation with comparable countries in Europe: The problem with us is relatively large, ladies and gentlemen. We had to say now, about 150 radical jihadists. - We had her. Now it's about 120. The difference relates to persons, unfortunately also many youthful persons who are lost or have been shown to have been killed. It's about life and death. This is a very serious problem with which we have to fight across Europe, which, of course, is not suitable for party policy polemics. One thing I have to say: We all agreed that we must face this phenomenon at all levels. On the one hand, of course, with the necessary criminal consequences. In comparison, it has also been shown that in Austria, as I have always said, we have sufficiently strict rules. Our anti-terrorist laws are enough. We can also, by means of criminal law, prevent radicalised young people from moving into the jihad before crossing the border. The Germans can't, but they're going to look at this point and get closer to our legal situation. Yes, we have sufficient criminal regulations. We are going to do a little bit of an intensification of the situation, but the rules are sufficient in themselves. But that's not enough. That's perfectly clear. We all agreed that all of us must, of course, face this truly amazing new phenomenon with a whole bunch of measures at all levels, also taking into account the fact that young people who have nothing to lose, who also have nothing to lose socially, are particularly vulnerable to such radicalizations by seductors who infect any mistaken ideas. That's where you have to put on all levels. You have to do everything you can to counter this – not only legistically, but also preventively. It's like I said, Where it really is about people, radicalizing people and sending them to an crazy war and bringing them so far, perhaps also using the youthful tendency to black and white painting deliberately to abuse them for their purposes, there is absolutely clear: Who in Austria hates and treats He's gonna reap prison. That's the way it is. We currently have about ten people in detention. But regardless of that, it is equally important to do preventively everything in order to protect young people, in particular, from these really annoying processes and to ensure that they are not so susceptible to seduction by these radicalisms. In a European comparison, ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm to you the following: All states – and many of them – have already put in place or are preparing very similar measures, including measures against the symbolism associated with them. I must say that I am also very grateful to Mr Steinhauser for what he said on the subject of symbol law. Yes, it is important – and I am glad that he, as opposition politician, has done so too – to point out the seriousness of this issue as well. It must not be that such a symbolism becomes a kind of hip or cool youth culture. This is simply unbearable, and you also have to oppose it – one of many contributions, of course. All countries affected by this plan – or have already put into force – restrictions on travel freedom, including young people. Yes, this too is really necessary to protect them in this context. It is quite clear that in the event that a person is involved in struggles abroad, in this context, all states have provided for and provide for restrictions on citizenship rights. We are therefore fully in the European context with these measures proposed by the Minister for the Interior. It is a perfectly normal project, as part of many of the measures that we have to put in place here – in fact, together at European level – and I can only tell you that this bundle of measures makes sense as a small but not unimportant part of the fight against jihadism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24312	Thank you, Minister of State. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24337	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that security and, above all, security policy is a very broad field that we need to discuss. I think a legislator must also respond to new phenomena, to new events. Especially when it comes to jihadism, when it comes to the conflict of Syria, the new events are, and I am perfectly aware that it can never be reduced to a single law or measure. It is about combating crime, but it is also about combating terrorism. It's a very wide field. These three measures, which we hope will be taken today, are correct and meaningful in my view. I do not let it apply if it is said here in the House that this government template is sloppy or unthinkable. I mean, the exact opposite is the case. You should also take note of this. What is bothering me about this debate and this debate is when the issue of integration is raised and said that integration and Austrian integration policy have failed. I believe that there must also be a will for integration that we must also call for the will to be integrated into those who want to be integrated here in Austria. And if you don't, you have to expect some measures. It is simply that both the Terror symbol law and the innovations on the subject of border control and citizenship are useful. I mean, the law has already expected, even if only a jihadist, to prevent a terrorist fighter from leaving, if only one of them is arrested, or if only one of us can deny citizenship. Then this law retired. But again: The concept of security is broad, and these are individual measures that, in my view, contribute to objective security in this country, but also increase the subjective sense of security of the population. That is why we will vote in favour of this proposal by the Minister for the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24382	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24403	Madam President, Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! If we deal with jihadism and terrorism in connection with the two government proposals for debate and the three proposed measures, I can present differentiated access to the liberals. In particular, we would first deal with the planned symbol law. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is for us a first careful step in the fight against the terrorist organisation IS. I use the expression “mild” consciously, because when Mr Darabos is speaking here on the floor of the speaker about the need to show a clear legal attitude in the fight against terrorism, I say: Under "clear legal stance", the liberals present themselves with a different bill, namely a ban on these terrorist organizations here in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whether it is the Islamic State, as they call themselves, or other similar terrorist organizations: These are prohibited under criminal law, according to the model of the Federal Republic of Germany in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, it is not understandable for us that in the Committee on the Interior last week, it has even come to a “thinkable” discussion with the Minister of the Interior, in which we have founded our strict but consistent attitude against terrorism. The Minister of the Interior then told my esteemed colleague Walter Rosenkranz in the statement on the grounds that we do not need a ban in the Criminal Code, because there is probably already a ban in § 283b of the Criminal Code. So she also accuses the lawyer Rosenkranz of ignorance of the law! But now it is true that there is no such article 283b with a ban on a terrorist organisation in the criminal code. [[Abg. Bitch: A proveable nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen, and above all, Mr Minister of Justice. – You are now innocent to the handkuss, but it would also be constructive for the National Council to hear from the Minister of Justice a correction of the Minister of Justice that you, too, prove that there is no ban, and such a ban was also implemented rapidly in the sense of the fight against terrorism and a crystal clear regime against terrorism in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also have expected the Minister of the Interior to prepare and take note of this in advance or in the preparation of the Committee on the Interior. That's the part. I can calm down immediately, we will agree to this symbol law, even if it is only a slow step, because of course we also know the danger of symbolism and its use. As has been said, under a clear regulation, we are proposing a further total ban on these terrorist organisations in Austria. – So much for the first part. On the second, on the border control law and on the citizenship law 1985 and its reform: Ladies and gentlemen, if you have discussed these regulations more in detail, you will have to take note of yourself and also sign that this draft, that this government template, that therefore this federal law cannot be implemented. Imagine that the security executive officers at the airport are on their way – and there is a young Austrian who is on the way to Turkey’s holiday. Would you prohibit this young person who has earned his summer vacation, perhaps after a long exam marathon in school, from taking a vacation in Turkey?- Oh, my God! How can one prove that this young man is actually crossing the Turkish border and wants to continue in this region plagued by terrorism, so to speak, to get under the arms of the IS and to spread murder and death there? How is that to be controlled?- Oh, my God! - That's the first question. Second question – if you really think there would be a handle at an Austrian airport to get hold of it: Who, then, prevents a young Austrian from driving across the border, for example to Bratislava, and flying away from there? There we were deprived of any handiwork. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: Do you not think that there is a really disproportionate intervention in the freedoms of our Austrian youth? Is the Austrian youth really flat-rate to the suspicion by the Austrian legislator that they support terrorism? Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this government template with regard to border controls and then you also know that this confirmation, which is to be submitted to an official, can be faked at any time, as well as at school, then the fact that the government has been disregarded by the fact that there can be two legal persons, but only one signature is required, so that the other parent may not know anything about it, and that consent would never be given to the young person planning to leave, this would have to be remembered. All of these are points that have not been observed or consciously transhiped in this government template, in order to present here simply – this expression has already fallen today – an alibi law that does not deserve to be given the majority of the National Council; at least not the majority of a responsible National Council. [[Abg. Darabos: What would you suggest?]] Ladies and gentlemen, on another point of criticism on agenda item 29, because in this amendment to the Citizenship Act it is not clear, Mr Darabos, that an Austrian – and that is quite the case, I must say – who is serving a foreign army in a military conflict, citizenship is being recognized, but if the government groups feel SPÖ and ÖVP, it is one who is fighting in a terrorist military, who can only be recognized of citizenship if the person does not become stateless! [[Abg. That's not how he's treated! That's not equal treatment! This is a disparity!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this may not be the final conclusion of wisdom that this is also rewarded if someone becomes active in a terrorist militia – and then there is consideration for such things that the person does not become stateless! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] In your opinion, he should continue to have in Austria all the rights he has acquired from his Austrian citizenship. We will certainly not support this, and that is why there will not be any agreement on this item on the agenda either. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have dealt with the border control law in particular, I would like to make a pleasure to Mrs Korun. Mr Korun also expressed in the Committee on the Interior – which is a different matter – that SPÖ and ÖVP finally stop calling opposition applications non-disputable and dissuasive. However, SPÖ and ÖVP do not then have the courage to put these requests to the vote in plenary session. [[Abg. Amon: Have we rejected!]] At this meeting, we liberals submitted to the Committee on the Interior a request for temporary border controls, where the SPÖ and, of course, the Greens – but at least you of the Greens were not in favour of a postponement of this request, but said they would vote against it – were also said by the EIA: Oh, we can't do that!; for various reasons, you said that it was not feasible and that's why you were against it. But then you are afraid of SPÖ and ÖVP for the discussion here at the speaker's desk, fear of having to argue against the population, as one can at all be against finally introducing appropriate temporary border controls, ladies and gentlemen, in order to counteract the corresponding large refugee flows, in order to stop the uncontrolled immigration efforts and also the transit of economic refugees, in order also to counteract the increasing tow crime and activity associated with them, in order to continue to be able to control the ever-increasing criminal tourism activity from Eastern Europe here in Austria and, for example, to counter the cozy in-and-after past and fulfilled crime. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] These are all things that we could actually fight effectively with temporary border controls. Red and black – you don't know why, maybe because it's an idea of the liberals – are voting for a delay and don't want to comment on it here. But I'm not going to make you like that. That is why we have again prepared the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, give yourself a back! Jump over your party political shadow and think about the interests of the Austrian population! It would support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24565	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24679	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft symbol law, including title and entry into 346 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Draft federal law amending the border control law and the citizenship law 1985, including title and entry into 351 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the implementation of temporary border controls. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:59:31]] 30. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (349, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the 2010 Pyrotechnic Law (PyroTG-Novelle 2014) (411 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24777	So we reach the 30th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Hammer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24804	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We decide here a novel of the Pyrotechnic Law with the clear aim of protecting consumers and third parties from accidents and injuries. All of us who sit here know that due to their visual-visual and acoustic effects, pyrotechnic articles exercise a certain fascination and are therefore very popular. In view of the coming turn of the year, a high level of economic activity is also to be expected here. But we all know – and this is very unfortunate – that accidents occur again and again, often very difficult. Our aim is therefore to better protect consumers and third parties who often suffer innocent damage and to ensure an efficient accident prevention in the future. Above all, this is a mandatory marking with a registration number. It is intended to facilitate the traceability of the objects according to a uniform system. Furthermore, only pyrotechnic articles which meet the essential safety requirements may be placed on the market in the future. In addition, there is an obligation to provide manufacturer information and to include a German-speaking instructions for use, in particular to indicate the degree of risk and noise levels. I am convinced that these measures will be taken, that they will bring more protection and safety and that they will be able to avoid accidents. Another point that will be dealt with – and I think this is very important – is that in the future, airbags in cars can only be placed on the market more in conjunction with the car, built into this, and therefore also thefts and related injuries are prevented. In the Committee we also discussed the future handling of the use of signal pens, especially after unfortunate incidents at the Derby in Vienna. We agreed in committee to limit this accordingly. Mr Pilz, you are going to speak later, and today you can distance yourself from demonstrating how to use such a signal pen. I saw a YouTube video on this issue today. We can imagine that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24843	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24865	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! From my point of view, the outcries at the Vienna football derby in November of this year are a parade example of how sports by people who spend themselves as fans or call themselves fans are misused as a cheap pretext for the exercise of violence. I think we all agree that true fans support their team; they support them by enthusiasm, by good mood and not by shooting other people with missiles or signal pens. In the said game, which has already been addressed today, light rockets have been targeted and shot to other visitors. In my view, it is very objectionable that in doing so, consciously, it has been targeted at a sector in the stadium where families sat with children. High house! I think we agree: To inspire children for sport is our common political goal. If you can no longer go to the sports ground with your children, with young people, this goal is to inspire children for sports, it is difficult to implement. Ladies and gentlemen! Both light rockets and signal pens, with which light rockets were fired at the Derby in Vienna, have – I believe, we are of an opinion – simply lost nothing on a football ground. But from practice – my colleague Pilz nodds to me; I am also an enthusiastic football fan – we know that controls at stadium entrance and also superficial body visits can only prevent the smuggling of signal pens due to the fact that these signal pens are hardly larger than a ballpoint pen. We are aware that both light rockets and these signal pens are an important safety measure for sailors or climbers, for example, they are also It is not possible to save it. It is therefore not a general prohibition of this in itself useful invention, but of protection against abuse. While these signal pens are still freely available in Austria, they are already subject to the Waffengesetz in Germany. In Germany, there is no need for a gun ticket to buy these signal pins, but it must prove a need. This ensures that, for example, sailors or climbers can meet their needs, but at the same time no one can abuse these pins as weapons. It is very important to me from this point of view to say: Shooting people with signal pens is truly not a cavalier crime, but it is a serious criminal act. High house! I am therefore confident that we will quickly find an uncomplicated solution for this important subject, which ensures that signal pens only get into the hands of people who also need them. They all benefit from this: the real fans, the stadium visitors and also the clubs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24913	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e24934	Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure Mr Hammer of the ÖVP that: I didn't bring a rocket, I didn't bring explosives – simply and simply because the house order forbids it. [[Abg. Wheeler: Go!]] The reason why we have adopted this decision unanimously in committee is known. I wasn't the only one of us at the last Wiener Derby in the Happel Stadium. That's what some others have experienced. I have seen these light rockets shot in this case from an Austrian sector – at other games it is other sectors – in the family sector E, where they exploded. There are videos of that. I asked for it because I thought it was totally unacceptable. In the mid-term – I met them outside – family fathers went out of the stadium with their boys. They trembled all over the body, they were severely traumatized. – Well, what else should happen if missiles hit and explode right next to them? And that's a pretty bad thing. I then asked myself: What are these signal pens? - It's a ballpoint pen, it's not a signal pen. [[The speaker holds up a pen.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: he was from the fungus!]] [[The speaker holds another pen in the height.]] That's a signal pen. [[Abg. Kickl: Look like this!]] - Look, that looks almost like a ballpoint pen. It's incredibly hard to control. That is to say, we discussed the Committee with reasonable reason, the problem begins when you enter a business – and I did that in the Aspernbrückengasse in the second district in Vienna – and I can say: I would like to have a signal pen and a proper ammunition the way it was the last time it was in the stadium. And I would like to have something that shoots as far as possible, as powerful and as colorful as possible exploded. I have been professionally advised and have received a signal pen and six pieces of rockets around 35 €. - It can't be! And there's the root of the problem. I don't know how it was possible to have been looked away for so long. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] If you go to the stadium and look at it, you see, when people are shot at children, these are simple and simple weapons. No one can explain to me why this is not treated like weapons. And it was not a problem to convince some Members or any Members of the Committee on the Interior, because after a brief discussion we found: We all agree. Now the Minister of the Interior has been commissioned by us to make a reasonable legal proposal: Does that come into the Waffengesetz as in Germany, does that come into the Pyrotechnics Act or is there another reasonable solution? But one thing is perfectly clear: The legislator has to signal once certain limits in football stages are exceeded, that we simply and simply do not accept that. [[Abg. Pendl: Exactly!]] We have the task of protecting the people from the rocket shooters in the stages. If there are laws suitable for this, then we will decide on these laws in this National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only thing that surprises me is that the whole thing hasn't happened long ago. And then we will ask each of the so-called or real football fans a very simple question: rockets or football? - Everyone will have to decide for themselves. As in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, we will also insist in Austria that in Austria, no family who go to a stadium in football must fear missile terrorism. This is the minimum that the Austrian National Council will ensure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25038	Mr Brandstetter spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25059	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm allowed to represent you, Mrs. Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner also says a few words about the Pyrotechnic Law, as it now appears as a draft. This law – I hope we are not at risk now. [[Abg. Pilz takes the pens from the speaker's mouth.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: How did he bring this into Parliament?]] – The law has not yet been passed, nor do we seem to have certain spaces that we have not yet been able to limit. But one thing is clear: As a starting point, it must be taken into account that this regulation constitutes the implementation of an EU directive which is just about to adapt the 2010 Pyrotechnic Law to the Union law. This applies, of course, in general and not only to the specific, traditionally criminal area of football – regardless of which association you have and whether or not Members of matches are involved. No, it's supposed to apply in general! Of course, in implementing EU legislation, it is also a focus here on increasing the protection and safety of people. This makes sense especially in view of the very frequent accidents in handling pyrotechnic material. Now the question: What changes, what measures are being implemented? First – this is really important for the pursuit of the purposes of this law –: In future, pyrotechnic items must have a registration number. This is mainly for tracking, because a uniform numbering system allows such pyrotechnic objects to be defined and traced much easier. Secondly, The pyrotechnics must comply with the safety requirements of European standards. Manufacturers, importers and dealers are also held responsible and taken into account by granting them control and cooperation tasks. So it's so easy to get such pens in the future. What does that mean? – Manufacturers, importers and dealers will have to prepare technical documents in the future, issue EU declarations of conformity, record registration numbers and sample samples. If the pyrotechnic standard does not comply with EU directives, they must take appropriate measures and inform the authorities. The third measure focuses on market surveillance rules. These rules are completely redesigned, i.e. manufacturers, importers and dealers must, at the request of the Authority, provide all the information and documents necessary to demonstrate the conformity of pyrotechnic items with EU specifications. In addition, they must participate in averting risks arising from pyrotechnic items which have been placed on the market by them. The Authority shall thus provide the means and means to improve the withdrawal and recall of such items. Last but not least, institutions should be established to assess whether the pyrotechnic items are in conformity with the rules or not. The law is also intended to define precisely what needs to be done to these institutions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment to the Pyrotechnics Act, you see the possibility of important measures to protect or deal with the people involved. The citizen has something of it, especially if you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25104	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 349 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution on the regulation of ‘signalling pins’ attached to the Committee’s report 411 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 61.) [[22:15:37]] 31. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (371, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Chemicals Act 1996 and the Federal Criminal Law (410 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25167	Now we come to the 31st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25194	Last speech, shortest speech: In fact, these regulations are quite reasonable. The competences will be pushed back and forth between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Interior. We argued in the Committee that it is not at all clear why this competence should not be established in the Ministry of the Interior – nobody wanted it – but the Minister of the Interior was stronger than the Minister of Agriculture. Now she has the Minister of Agriculture. There is no real reason for this, because it is not an agricultural problem and because it is only the result of a shift and a lack of a reasonable decision. [[Abg. Pendl: We have dealt with it in committee!]] Otto! We were quite of an opinion, but we didn't get through. That's how it is sometimes, at least at the federal level. All right, I take note of it, but we're going to refuse to approve this decision that is not justified today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25229	Next item is the report by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25250	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz, it is almost a little childish now, because it is not the Minister for Agriculture, it is the Minister for the Environment for the Environment, because he is dealing with chemicals. [[Abg. Brosz: That is the same!]] That's what the Federal Ministry's Law provides. This is the way in which the Minister of Education is responsible for education. When it comes to political education and education, for example, in the school debate, that will not be the reason why it will be the Ministry of the Interior, because one may be dealing with prevention issues in teaching, but the Minister of Education is also responsible for this. In principle, this proposal is useful because it is a matter of introducing measures to prevent explosive attacks when certain chemicals are purchased in certain quantities. However, I would like to address one point briefly, because I do not think it is fair what the FPÖ has done. Mr Darmann, I am right to say that the Minister of the Interior has referred to you in the Committee on the Interior on the question of whether the terrorist organisation is prohibited or not, in the criminal code, a false paragraph. She's a number crash. I am therefore right to say that we are talking about § 278b StGB, in which it is perfectly clear that a terrorist organisation, like the Islamic State, is banned and punished. Mr Darmann, there will be no reasonable person to assume that there would not be an initiative here in the House in the second time if an organisation which, through terrorist measures, acquired parts of state areas, an organization that decapitates people and puts them on the Internet. Such an organization would not be prohibited in Austria, would it not be punishable? – No one believes that! I would also ask you, Mr Darmann, to consider what you are actually doing if you publicly claim that this organisation in Austria is not only prohibited but permitted. I really ask you to think about it. I really think that's absurd. And that's why I'm asking you to stay right. [[Abg. Darmann: Read the paragraphs!]] What we have done is to ensure that the symbols of this organization will also be punished in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25300	The next item is the report by Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25322	Estimated President! Minister of Justice! We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote. We have already discussed in the Committee on the Government Template 371 of the Supplements with the amendment of the Chemicals Act and the Federal Criminal Act, and broad approval has been signalled. This is about adapting legal frameworks to European law by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the one hand, we want to prohibit starting materials with which individuals can produce any explosives, and on the other hand, we want to prohibit the acquisition of the following chemicals in accordance with Annex I: Hydrogen peroxide, nitromethane, hydrochloric acid, potassium chlorate, potassium perchlorate, sodium chlorate and sodium perchlorate in certain compositions. We have also provided for a notification obligation for chemicals listed in Annex II. This concerns the following substances: Hexamine, sulfuric acid, acetone, potassium nitrate, calcium nitrate, calcium saltpeter and ammonia nitrate. This is, I think, an important area. These measures, which are implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, establish a reporting obligation. In addition, we also need to amend the Federal Criminal Law and to settle the registration office centrally in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. Finally, Mr Darmann – we have already discussed this in committee – you have tabled a motion for a resolution on temporary border controls. I have returned the request from you to the committee. Why? – I explained this to you, because the request is simply not to be understood. But at least I am glad that your party has gotten away from the complete decomposition of Austria – beams down, border close – and is now demanding temporary border controls. [[Abg. Kickl: Just refuse!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Reject!]] Quite clearly, I also told you: We don't have as many people as we could complete these border controls. We know that between 2000 and 2006, 3 000 police officers, in your responsibility, were reduced. Since 2008, there have now been around 1 000 more available. However, this is still not enough for Weitem to “sold off” all over Austria. And to say this honestly would be very important. The other point is how can we ensure more security: This was explained with the AGM groups that these compensatory measures are necessary. Here we have called on the Minister of the Interior to fill up the subject. The staff is targeted and appropriate, and it is more appropriate to set up here than to demand temporary border controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25374	No one is reported in the word anymore. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 371 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:24:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2014-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00053_d7e25423	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 827/A(E) to 833/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3254/J to 3280/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 22.26 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
