ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19657	Dear MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I am opening the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament were received at the session. Are there any objections to the minutes of the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament? I can confirm that there are no objections. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed and as received. We are now moving to determine the agenda of today's session, this session of the Croatian Parliament. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included four new points in the final draft agenda. These are: Final proposal of the law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, PZ No. 151; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p. 195; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 193 and 4th, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council with the Final Proposal of the Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 194. According to Article 205. The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal for an individual law to be adopted by an emergency procedure, propose laws under the items of the agenda from 1 to 4 and under points 11, 13 and 15. These are: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 189; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Serbia Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 188; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia-Montenegro's cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 190; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 187; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bankruptcy law, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 195; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 194; 7. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 193. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19658	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister with members of the government. We have an objection to the inclusion of an emergency procedure law, a bill on amendments to the Police Act, with a final draft of the law, for the reason that it is an intrusion into the fundamental rights of police officers who are going to retire. In order to show a false picture of some fiscal consolidation, the cost reduction simply hits those who have completed their working life, who are due to retire. And we believe that this law, because of the several thousand people that he has tangled, because of the poor experience of 2000, when we paid hundreds of millions for lost court disputes, deserves a debate in two readings and deserves, I think that these officers for that honest work and how they did and kept order and peace in the Republic of Croatia that every MP has the right to present and say his opinion because this is the kind of violation over the knee of the elementary rights for which not so long ago ran and signed some demands for a referendum, etc. We simply feel that it is wrong, and this law by no means should go into an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19659	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Proposer. You can go from there, dear Minister. You can go from being a respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19660	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Mr. President. It's a delay in application one sentence, let's discuss it here in an emergency procedure. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense. Because if it doesn't go away from 1.1.2013 then it doesn't even make sense to talk about the law. We're staying on the suggestion that it's urgent.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19661	Thank you very much. We heard the proposal's opinion. Now we're going to vote on an emergency procedure. Please establish a quorum in the hall. Thank you very much. We've got 132 MPs present enough. Please state by voting who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the framework of the 2011 IPA cross-border cooperation component of the IPA programme, Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – is the subject of the IPA Cross-border Cooperation Programme. No. 189. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that most votes are on the agenda by emergency procedure, with 131 for and 1 against the included Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2011, P.Z. No. 189. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the framework of the IPA Cross-border Co-operation Programme 2011 cross-border cooperation component of the IPA Programme, P.Z. No. 188. I'm asking you by raising your hand to plead for an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 132 votes to be put in place under the urgent procedure, the final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia's Cross-border Cooperation Programme – Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, P.Z. No. 188. Please state who is in favour of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia – Montenegro under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2011, P.Z. No. 190. By raising our hands, I'd like to make a statement about the urgency of the procedure. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 133 votes in an emergency procedure, the final draft law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia-Montenegro's Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, P.Z. No. 190. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Police Act, P.Z. No. 187. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 51 votes against the agenda according to an emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Police Act, P.Z. No. 187. Please state who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, P.Z. No. 195. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 52 votes against the agenda according to the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the bankruptcy law, P.Z. No. 195. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation, Amendment and Completion of the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, P.Z. No. 194? Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the final proposal for a law on the certification of amendments and addition of the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council, P.Z., has been adopted unanimously in the agenda under the urgent procedure. No. 194. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, P.Z. No. 1933. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 for and 53 against the agenda under the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, P.Z. No. 193. There were no objections to the draft agenda for the sitting, and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session. Do any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda of the point Final proposal of the Law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, P.Z. No. 151? Please, who's to include this point? You don't have to? Okay, thank you very much. Dear ladies and honored gentlemen, the representatives of the agenda are hereby determined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should now publish the established agenda by rereading. I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read in full but that you allow me to announce that the agenda is defined as I suggested it in the final draft agenda. If you agree, we believe that we have established the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Minister, vice presidents, members of the government. Let me evaluate today as the historic day of the Republic of Croatia and of the citizens of Croatia. The decision, the International Court's ruling in The Hague, acquittal to the generals is the recognition from the highest court instance established by the UN organisation that Croatia has waged a fair, liberative and defensive war under the rules... So to continue, according to the rules of international law. [[Applause.]] This has led to the enthusiasm among the citizens of Croatia, but as a well-organised and democratic country, we must retain dignity and responsibility for Croatia's future. We've got that assignment left on us. Once again to all of you, I am pleased to all of us that the International Criminal Court has confirmed what we believed and what we knew. Thank you very much. And now I suggest we keep working. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for trust of Prof. Dr.sc Vesni Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs for the First Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 2. Proposal for a trust to Ivan Vrdoljak to perform his duties as Minister of Economy, 3. Proposal to show confidence in Anki Mrak Taritas for the responsibilities of the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, 4. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 - proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plan of extra budget users for 2012: (a) Croatian Waters, (b) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, (c) Croatian Roads, (d) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency, (e) State Property Management Agency. - a proposal to amend and supplement the state budget and the financial plans of extra budget users for 2012 consolidated, 5. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, second reading, PZ No. 196. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed agenda points? There isn't. I'm confirming that the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19664	Well, Mr. President, I don't know if this is some kind of mistake, which happened, but we passed this Act on support in agriculture and rural development at the last session, and now I see that they're already on the agenda. Is this about the same law?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19665	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19666	Is this about the changes to that law we passed at the last session?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19667	What's the point of the proposal? What's the point of the proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19668	7th point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19669	Seven. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on support for agriculture and rural development with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 207. The law in force, therefore, is now being amended by this proposal. What else am I supposed to say? ... That's what we'll see when we start discussing content. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now it's the name. Thank you very much. No objections from others? Thank you very much. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please establish the quorum. We have the necessary number of representatives present in the Croatian Parliament, we can go in order. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Budget Act, P.Z. No. 205? Please raise your hand and let us know who's up for it? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. I find that the final draft of the Budget Act, P.Z., has been included unanimously in the agenda according to the urgent procedure. No. 205. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Code, P.Z. No. 206? Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes 86 for and 28 against the emergency agenda are included Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Code No. 206. Three, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments, PZ No. 199. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I note that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments, PZ No. 199 and 81 votes for and 31 votes against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, PZ No. 201. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes in 80 for and 31 against the agenda are included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Resuscitation of Public Institutions of the PZ No. 201. Fifth, who is I for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the acquisition and exchange of services (USA-HRV-02). 200. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that, unanimously 112 votes for the agenda under emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the acquisition and exchange of services (USA-HRV-02) is included. 200. On the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Value Added Tax (PZE) No. 203. Law amending and supplementing the Act on support for agriculture and rural development of the PZE No. 207.i Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods of the PZE No. We do not vote 204 because they are in accordance with Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? I find that there isn't, I find that there isn't. The agenda is complemented by this. We move to a statement on the debated items of the agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading of the PZE No. 191 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19671	The SDP club has brought a bundle of applications for the budget for the debate. There's no application outside, and the rest of us couldn't sign up. If that's the way we're gonna do it, let's get them started and we'll discuss it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19672	I don't know if he's out there. ... We'll deny it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'd like to mix up some of ours. It's all right, I'm correcting if it's not there. I'll see why they're gone and how it happened. I'll check it out. Okay. I agree we'll correct things. Let's go vote. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. Before moving to the agenda for the extension of the agenda, one notice. On Monday 3rd December of this year, at 14:00 in Josip Jelačić's hall on the occasion of marking the International Day of Persons with Disabilities in the Croatian Parliament will be held socialising with people with disabilities and I ask you to respond as much as possible. We shall go in accordance with Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda with the following items of the agenda: 1. Final proposal of the Law on concessions, second reading, PZE No. 134, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 209, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 215, 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, Second Reading, PZ No.94, 1. Final proposal of the Law on Sampling, Second Reading, CZ No. 179, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 212, 1. Final proposal of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemetery of Victims of World War II and Postwar Period, Second Reading, PZ No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on special tax on luxury products, with final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 213, 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU on the Multiannual Operational Programme for the Development of Human Potentials for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Development of Human Potentials" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, PZ No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, PZ No. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Proposal for a decision on the participation of the RS Armed Forces in NATO Peace Operation in Kosovo (KFOR), 1. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta". You've received proposals from these acts in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt individual laws by an urgent procedure. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in law-making? There is. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19674	Here, as always, especially when the laws are not set out in that E-label, we don't think they should go through an emergency procedure. Since we have amendments to the government on a series of laws, which will still be the case today. This applies in particular to this proposal for a law on the termination of the law on special tax on luxury products, the final proposal for a law, the emergency procedure, the first and second reading, which is neither a European law nor a specific analysis or justification for the fact that it has adopted this special law on the tax on luxury products. This applies to the Law on ownership and other real rights, and the Labour Protection Act, paragraph 9, I consider that it should have a European law since it is a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU Commission. So I don't see the reason and I don't understand why it's not marked with the European law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19675	Thank you very much to Honoring Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19676	I thank you, Mr. President. The same observation, the HDZ Representatives Club disagrees with an emergency procedure in the case of all those laws that do not have a PZE code, so there are as many as I can see 4. And I agree with my colleague Vinkovic that point 9 should be absolutely marked as PZE since it is European issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19677	Thank you very much. Now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will move to a vote on an emergency procedure. Please determine the quorum. Thank you very much. 117 MPs are present in the hall, so we have the necessary number of MPs to be able to decide qualified on all points of the agenda. Let's go first. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Property Act and other real rights? Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? We're waiting for the result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 35 votes against the agenda by emergency procedure, are included in the Final Bill on Property and Other Real Rights, PZ No. 215. Second, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, PZ No. 212? Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal for a Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, PZ No. 212. 3. who is in favour of the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products, PZ No. 213? Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes for and 35 against the agenda under the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products, PZ No. 213. 4 who is in favour of the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and the Completion of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potential for Community assistance in pre-accession assistance instruments as part of the human potential development component in Croatia, CZ No. 218. I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who's in. Who's against it? Thank you very much. There's no agenda. [[Intruder Vinkovic: Are there any abstentions?]] I'm asking for a result. I note that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirming Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potential to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments within the human potential development component in Croatia, CZ No. 218. On the application of the procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Labour Protection Act, PZE No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. I find that the agenda is complemented by that. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. The meeting is being held, we continue with the work of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. I propose that, in accordance with Article 204(2), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are complemented by the agenda of the following points. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, first reading, PZ No. 216, Second is the Proposal for a Law on Courts, first reading, PZ No. 217, Third, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading of the PZ No. 211. I ask if there are any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed agenda points? No, I'm not. I'm not. The agenda is complemented by that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19680	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The assembly shall meet until 15 December at its regular session. We in the agenda that we've been working on haven't processed all the points of the agenda, and I still believe there's a lot of work to do in those next week. Today, after yesterday's session of the Government, we add to the agenda the new 28 points of which most MPs have any position, whether the opposition has probably not seen the texts, and you must allow me to even question whether those laws that bear the mark to comply with the EU acquis are really of this nature, or whether it is only a way for them to enter the agenda by emergency procedure. Because of the fact that the Government treats Parliament this way and I think that in a week we can study the new 28 laws so that we can at all adequately prepare and discuss the laws that are being put before us. Let me just mention that today we have discussed a part of the law in the field of justice, and, let's say, one offers a strategy for the development of the judiciary for the period from 2013 to the mid-month period. I think we're in a situation where it's impossible to work quality. I'd call here for a deep thought of the Prime Minister when he listened to our objections, then he answered me. And this now shows that the government is really fucking about what Parliament thinks and how it thinks that Parliament can do this job before us in a week. In addition, there are 4 points of the agenda that are not included in the emergency procedure because we have already done the first reading. It's a group of laws regarding local elections. We're asking what happened to good parliamentary practice? What happened to all the calls made by the Prime Minister and his closest associates, arguing that good parliamentary practice defends changing electoral legislation in the year preceding the elections. And now 4 months before the local elections, you are offering amendments to the Law on Local Elections, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on residence and the Law on Election Registration. These are such important topics and so important laws that no one can expect to be discussed within 3 or 4 days or that one representative can be quality prepared for discussion and that this whole agenda can be passed at all. For these reasons, I am asking you on behalf of the HDZ Club not to include 28 more points in the full agenda regardless of the emergency procedure or other reading because this agenda is impossible to do in a week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19681	Thank you, Your Honor. I from the position of this table can tell you that we will secure the debate and none of the MPs will be denied to discuss, presents their position either on behalf of the club, or on their own. We will also agree on the priorities of the work in line with the priorities of the state, or government and act. And the agenda will be decided in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What we're going to do, how much we're going to do it depends not on the President of the Parliament, but on the MPs in the Parliament. And we must respect some of the commitments we have made towards the EU. So I propose that we move to vote on the proposed agenda points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that we can set the agenda, and then agree on what is important as a priority to finish by the end of the constitutional deadline. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19682	Dear Mr. President, I object to the inclusion in the agenda under the urgent procedure of the draft law under the regular number 15. 228, because it's a law that suspends collective agreements. This is inappropriate, and for the first time in Croatia's history, it happens that by an emergency procedure, the Government of the Parliament proposes to pass such a law on the suspension of collective agreements and by an urgent procedure. According to its content and its consequences, this law should be called the Law prohibiting trade union action in Croatia and simply cannot understand, believe and accept the fact that, at the last week of the parliamentary session, the Government dared in any way with such a proposal for an emergency procedure, to come to the Assembly without the previous opinion of the GSV.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19683	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We will now decide everything in a democratic way in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please determine the quorum in the assembly. Thank you very much. There are 120 MPs present in the assembly. We have a satisfactory number. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. 221? Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 39 votes against on the agenda according to the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. 221. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, P.Z. No. 219? Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. How about a score? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 39 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, P.Z. No. 219. Third, who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "additional financing of the Credit Programme on Export Finance", P.Z. No. 220? Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that the majority of the vote 91 votes by and 29 against the agenda under the emergency procedure was included the Final Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the PZ Credit Programme. 220. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Biofuels for Transport, PZ No. 223. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes 81 votes for and 39 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Biofuels for the transport of PZ No. 223. Fifthly, this is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Law on the market in oil and petroleum products of the PZ No. 224. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that 81 votes and 38 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products of the PZ No. 224. 6. for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the short payment of additional material rights to persons employed in the public services of the CZ No. 228. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes 81 votes and 36 votes against on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included Final proposal of the Law on the short payment of additional material rights to employees in the public services of the PZ No. 228. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the application of the emergency procedure are not voted in the adoption of the Law on postal services of the PZE No. 229, Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures No. 230, Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Real Estates of PZE No. 231, Law on human organ transplantation for the purpose of treating PZE No 227, Law on the application of human tissues and cells of PZE No. 225, Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund of the PZE No. 222, Law amending and supplementing the Law on the revision of the PZE No. 233, Law on open-end investment funds with a public offering of PZE No. 235, Law on Alternative Investment Funds of PZE No. 234. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? Thank you very much. I'm confirming that the agenda has been completed with this. And now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in Article 202(2), I would like to propose the addition of the agenda to one point, the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the application for authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against the respected representative Ivica Mandic. You've received a proposal for an act on the benches. Any of the MPs have any objections to the proposed addition of the agenda? No, I'm not. I'm not. The agenda is complemented by that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the provisions of Article 225a of the Rules of Procedure, I am looking for a 30-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club. I would argue that because of the catastrophic effects of the flood that hit the northern part of our country, also due to the consequences of pollution, the cross-border pollution of Slavonski Brod from the refinery of the neighbouring country, and given the fact that the prime minister is talking about the state of emergency, although he does not mention these catastrophic consequences, we are looking for a break in the name of the club to show ourselves about these important topics before the current morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19687	Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19688	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, I am also seeking a 15-minute break for reasons of circumstances that concern all citizens of Slavonski Brod but also wider in the area of Slavonia and Baranja and are related to the pollution and non-region of any measures to remedy these damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19689	I will read Article 223.b of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament: "The Chair of the Assembly will not approve a recess for the meeting of the Club of Representatives if the request for a recess is submitted before the established agenda and the transition to the agenda." We're not going to the agenda right now. So we'll take a break when we get to the agenda, and now we'll continue with the current morning. Thank you very much. Please let's go to work. First, please allow the Rules of Procedure to be applied. So, respected representative Nedzad Hodzic has the right to ask a question. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19690	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for Mr. Slavko Linic's finance minister. Mr. Ministers of the earlier years, and in particular in 2006 and 2007, we witnessed infrequent cases of tax oversight in which some inspectors protected the directors of the Tax Administrations and the decisions of an independent second-degree who dealt with complaints in the most brutal way robbed businesses by inventing tax obligations. I will remind you that in 2007, a group of companies in Istria decided to openly oppose this lawlessness and robbery by stepping up in the media, multiple address to the Republic of Croatia, blocking the roads, writing open letters to the Minister of Finance and what irony, calling on the then prime minister to protect the country's legality. I will also remind you that the inspector against whom these Istrian companies have fought has been arrested and processed very quickly, and a few years later, the head of the Istra County Tax Administration acknowledges receiving bribes and is being processed. Apparently, this team invented tax obligations and filled the state budget for some companies, and it probably forgave others for their tax obligations and filled their pockets. My question is whether you have information about whether these behaviours were present in other parts of Croatia and what you intend to do is to return the money to these companies as soon as possible because the solution to these problems by regular judicial means could come too late for most of these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19691	Please let your fellow citizens hear questions and let the citizens hear the answers, that is the meaning of the current question, not that we are asking each other questions. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19692	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. In 2012 at the Tax Administration, we received a number of objections from Croatian entrepreneurs, foreign entrepreneurs who complained about the procedures in which in the first-degree settlement or the first-issued tax solution we have one interpretation, and after inspections a year or two after that different application of tax rules. Therefore, the objections are from many entrepreneurs and not only in Istria but throughout Croatia. We have complete demands and items collected at the IRS. In order to avoid such events during this year, we have changed the General Tax Law and found that such solutions can only be annulled by a court ruling, without a court being able to change that. And what we also predicted if such a solution goes to the burden of entrepreneurs will not be applied but will go to the solution that is more favourable to the entrepreneur. Also now with the latest amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act, we have found that the Tax Administration will give mandatory opinions. And those mandatory opinions will be mandatory for everyone and I would say direct offices, but also for supervision. The IRS will therefore be responsible for the solutions issued and three different opinions in the IRS will not be given, depending on whether it is the central office, whether it is the regional office or whether it is supervision. Therefore, what is with the application of such laws will change our behavior. At the same time, in order to obtain in some way responsible interpretations of what was happening within the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, we will go to the establishment of an audit body who will take views on such disputed ones, but this will only be an expert opinion, this will help eventually resolve court disputes. Therefore, the audited facts will also give us information on whether the administration is a tax or an entrepreneur but will only be able to apply in a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19693	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Hodzic, please. Nejad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19694	Thank you, Mr. Minister. In fact, my question is basically driven by what I'm about to say. The administrative courts absolutely in practice so far did not respect even the findings of authorised judicial experts, which should be the basis for a group of lawyers to at least suspect, so it is not just about how the IRS works and resolutions at the Ministry of Finance but also about the administrative court that entrepreneurs address in previous practice have done scary things. So these are the things I'm experiencing as destroying the constitutional order of this country, if... 5 instances where in no instance does the fact mean anything to anyone. So I ask that in future practice, so you will give a great message to entrepreneurship in Croatia that it is narrow to move forward only if you are righteous. So be strict, but be just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19695	Thank you very much. Second question, respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19696	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19697	The MPs finish with the question, don't burn anything. Ask a question, you'll get a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic. Dear Prime Minister, the introduction of real estate taxes has been announced and has caused a lot of public interest. Today, part of the property is taxed in a way that has a communal fee, a weekend tax, and now a total property tax is announced. Does this mean, as we can hear in public, that it is an additional tax burden on our citizens and will this affect the increase in revenues in the state budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19699	Answer, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19700	Dear colleagues. As you said yourself, two taxes are abolished, and real estate tax is introduced. And that's the topic we put into public debate because we want to talk about it, we're going to have a few months to talk about it. And I want to stress here that the primary objective here is not to introduce taxes that all other countries have in the EU. It's technically not even our responsibility. It is simply a matter of introducing order, so at the beginning of the debate, I stress that we insist that there be no additional tax burdens and that the medium layer is protected and the tax instruments will contribute to that. And that's why I accept the criticism, but I'm confused if that's what I can say with unfounded criticism from those who obviously haven't read that proposal carefully enough. So it doesn't occur to us, and if that kind of danger is hidden somewhere in the law, point to it, it doesn't occur to us that we charge these taxes to people who live in real estate, who use holiday houses that have built 30 years stone by stone, brick by brick, which has been done by a large number of our citizens. It doesn't, but I expect it to support itself. If not supported to explain why not supported. To put real estate into economic function, to get out of the gray zone, to refer to those who own several properties, to force them to make transparent contracts with the tenants and to pay a moderate, relatively small tax, thereby fulfilling the economic function, real estate is being placed on the market, a number of other collateral jobs as in Western Europe, so this is a strictly regulated system. Bank guarantees are given, lease contracts are concluded for many years, all of this can be taken under one single word: order and another, transparency. And that's why I'm convinced that even those who are currently critical of this concept will eventually be with us and will vote for this law because they can't be against real estate that are not used, which are basically in a hidden economic function somewhere behind the back, on the side, invisible, not paying taxes. Well, they have everything and less organized countries than Croatia. So once again, to conclude, no new coup against the citizens, no additional burden of the middle class, no. Let's just say one more thing, in a series of Western states, there's a tax on residential property, so on the house you live in. We're not going to introduce that, it's not coming to mind. We're not going to introduce that. So I'm going to repeat many more times what is the goal of this law, and what is not the goal and what we won't allow. Since this law has not been passed, that it is not here formally or in Parliament yet, it is precisely why we put it so early in public that everyone can point a finger and say this is bad, this is harmful, you misjudged this, so it will represent an additional tax burden, etc., etc. And another transparent source of funds from local self-government, it's everywhere in the world, a source of funds from local self-government. So here I see, in taxes in general we can't weaken them, tax is tax, tax is burden, but in this tax we see only a good and transparent thing and a regulated state and that's all. And I'm ready for a long and hard conversation with everyone who thinks differently, but they think the key word is thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19701	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19702	Thank you very much, President. I am pleased with the prime minister's response, of course, because we have undoubtedly learned from his answer that taxation of extras for citizens will not be, that they will protect the middle layer and that these will indeed be the sources of the budget of local units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19703	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19704	Dear Mr. President, I apologize for reporting again, but since the Croatian Parliament is not the place for such implementation of its own ideas and often the harassment of representatives who think otherwise had to come again to warn you of the following. I don't know on the basis of which Rules of Procedure we are working on sessions, perhaps based on this consolidated text that you were unable to publish in the National Journal. But if that's already the regulation we're working on, I'm going to remind you that at the last session, the same case happened that there was a break on behalf of the club after you set the agenda and you approved that break and after you approved the break, all the club representatives said. It was a health strategy in the Republic of Croatia. You may not remember, but even then, the same Rules of Procedure were in force and you cannot interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure from today until tomorrow just because the Government has no answer to the serious questions raised before it. So I repeat the request, grant a 30-minute break for the club sessions so that we can demonstrate ourselves about the current situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19705	Your Honor, we are all human and we are all sinful but let me read you another provision of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that is the provision of Article 180. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which did not change in the last novel of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So the current morning is held at the beginning of each session of the Parliament before the first item of the agenda. So this is the current morning, and Article 223 is not to be interpreted differently than to say that the president won't give a break. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please, please, if I made a mistake, please judge me by the Croatian Parliament that I made a mistake and I apologize to the entire Croatian Parliament, everyone. If that's the case. We're moving on with the current morning. So you'll get a break when we get to the agenda. Thank you very much. Next, the third question is the question of the respected representative Tomislav Karamark. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A question for Mr Milanovic, Prime Minister. Mr Milanovic, one year is approaching as you are in power, as you have created the government and what brings us that year will be summed up in several relevant information that interests us of course and burden us not only here but above all those we represent, which are our citizens. So this year's consumption dropped by 6% compared to September last year, industrial production by 7%, exports dropped by over 12%. In total, over 1.5% of gross domestic product was destroyed. Foreign direct investment in the first 6 months was 4 times less than at the same time, so in the first half of last year 2011 during our government, with 600m euros in investment dropped to 150m euros. How it'll be by the end of the year, only God knows. The number of unemployed has increased to over 333 000, hundreds of people lost their jobs per day. So at this point we have 40,000 more unemployed than last year at this time. Inflation increased 5%. With it, of course, and the cost of living and doing business. The purchasing power of our citizens has been reduced. Of course, that's how the standard goes down. So it's obvious that by taking over the government you're coming seems unprepared, so both software and personnel. For a year, it seems to us that it was lost in some kind of wandering without a goal, without a clearly defined goal. Of course, you were not asked to make one of the Scandinavian countries of Croatia within six, seven months. None of you expected this, and that some of the negative trends needed some of the mechanisms, the programs to be stopped, that's evident. Now I'm curious about what really after a year, here's a year, if you've started to think about whether there's a plan that we could call a consistent plan and some measures that will try to stop this drastically worsening of the economic situation in the country and the mass poverty of the Croatian man. Here I'd like to ask you a really specific and precise answer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19707	Thank you very much. Honored Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19708	Thank you, dear colleague. I'll remind you immediately what you asked me. You asked me if you were beginning to think, that's your question. ... Yeah, yeah. [[- Intruder Karamarko, you can't hear.]] We have a plan, but it's a question of whether you've started to think. How do I answer that question? How can I answer that question? So we started thinking, thinking, working, and it's not easy for us and not suing. You say it seems like after a year we're wandering. You're not critical of us at all. I'll tell you that it seems wrong to you, we don't wander. We don't wander! But it's not easy. And as you noticed in my performances, I do for very little if I accuse the previous government and the previous eight years and the government of which you were minister. Very little, not a bit in this House. Very little, not at all because I said I wouldn't do it because it's infertile, it's pointless. So that's not what I'm doing. When you ask me if we've started to think, or if you've started to think. Yes, we are. We're thinking and we're working. What did we do in a year? Less than what we wanted. The situation in Europe is difficult, in Croatia it is difficult. Next year, according to the forecasts, it should be a little less difficult than in our environment, in which it will be very bad. We're still talking about growth possibilities, growth that doesn't satisfy us. Because no matter how much we're in debt today, I'm going to use that word again, we're borrowing less unfavourable than a year ago, it's still too expensive. It's still too expensive. If you have a 5% or 4% state bond, it even fell below 4% that's great compared to 7 and a half percent. But if your economic growth is less than 2, and this situation is practically in all European countries today, somewhere better, somewhere worse, somewhere worse, somewhere worse. Look, we can outvote. I know exactly what I'm saying and I'm telling the facts, and as far as you're concerned, it's up to you. So I'm not attacking you. I'm saying that, except for Norway and Switzerland, there is not one country without deficits and there is not a single country that ranges between ten years in debt and economic growth does not have a hole. That's a bad perspective. But come to what we did in a year? The budget deficit was in 2011. 15 billion kuna. This year there will be 10 billion kunas. And I know that Croatian citizens are getting fucked alive for it. I wish I wasn't a politician, too. They don't have any of that right now. However, this is very important for the country's reputation and financial stability, and reputation means access to financial markets. Croatia is therefore today on this issue ha I will say in something better, but in fact in a slightly less unfavourable position than a year ago. As you know, our credit rating, and investors are looking at every detail better than it was a year ago. From a negative outlook, or prognosis, he turned to stable. However, it remains a low credit rating. That's the facts. And I'm not gonna take the logic team up to the facts. When I say that in Croatia, in economic terms and in terms of public consumption, it is a state of emergency, then I will repeat it again and today we can discuss the same thing here. Yes, but that doesn't mean that it's a state of direct war threat and danger, that doesn't mean that it's a state of war, it doesn't mean it's chaos and chaos. This means that the situation is extraordinary compared to what we have considered to be healthy for years, which is that consumption is constantly growing, public consumption and not being followed in a healthy way by growth in the economy. Now we've come to a point where we have to make complicated and unpopular decisions. Unfortunately, we do, too, but we have to bring them in. When you ask me if we're starting to think? A long time ago, but no use in thinking. Have you started to think? We are and we are. We are entering the European Union next year. We prepare the country in detail, capillaryly for all that awaits us. For every kuna, for every euro that comes. We are told in Brussels that we are given the same conditions for European projects, the same status as the countries that entered earlier. It's all part of one picture, one big picture that we're going to have to fill carefully, in detail, in a minute, point by point, puzzle by puzzle. And in that I expect yours I will not be naive to support, understanding. Because what we've had so far won't work anymore. And when it comes to fundamental human rights, let's say the right to 10 severances Time's up? [[Intruder Leko: The President's time!]] Excuse me. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19709	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Tomislav Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19710	Of course, I cannot be satisfied with such a response because we have not received a concrete answer. We have received one answer that we learned from Prime Minister Milanovic, so verbal acrobatics, etc., but we do not have the right answer. I'm glad you started thinking, I'm glad you're aware of the situation in which the state is. You are referring to the former government and problems in Europe, but where are you? Where? You're in a vacuum because the program doesn't exist or will exist by all accounts. You're talking about ex-government, so last year in those unromantic times the former VAT government was smaller, our people had fewer wars for electricity, gas, energy, they lived easier, there were fewer bankruptcys, there were fewer job blackouts. You're announcing a lack of ideas of a monstrous tax. So what do you think the consequences of that tax will be if you introduce it? Do you remember the picture from Zadar? It'll be everyday pictures. Therefore, I can say that your authority is indeed in these years, I would like you to probably do everything you can, but that is not enough for Croatia at this time. You've turned into a machine simply for the production of poverty and social cases. And when you mention it, when you mention an extraordinary situation, I think it started the moment you took over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19711	Thank you, Your Honor. Fourth question and respected representative Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19712	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, speaking on the question of one of the previous property tax deputies, you said tax is tax, tax is burden. That's right. One of, and I'd say the only visible feature of your economic policy in the last year was just an increase in that tax burden. The results are also what they are. Economic activity is falling, unemployment is growing, a general standard of living, and in some ways the perspective of life in our country is weakening. This is the result of a policy based on an increase in tax burden. However, by announcing the property tax, you continue to do so. You continue to announce that in the coming year, economic policy will also focus on increasing the tax burden. However, what we know about it today and clearly shows that this is not a tax on rich or super-rich but that this tax will affect the widest basis of Croatian citizens because of historical and historical circumstances as property was created in Croatia. You say we protect the middle layer. But that, Mr. Prime Minister, doesn't matter in the economy. It does not function according to political dictatorship or political desire. The announcement of taxes means that some people have given up the reconstruction of their real estate not to increase their value today, which means that some craftsmen, some builders, have lost their jobs. The announcement of the tax means that some have given up creating some new real estate, construction, which means that some of the builders have lost their jobs again. Like any other tax, this tax means a fall in the economy, a drop in consumption. My question is therefore simply why, Mr. Prime Minister, do not give up on this irrational and at this moment an extremely harmful economic move? Why not give up this tax and use your authority of the Prime Minister to prevent the punishment of citizens, pensioners and workers whose only mistake in saving, working and investing their whole lives? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19713	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to get down in business time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19714	If I can... Let people talk, you can interrupt me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this is the space to use every second, and you'll see how cultural there is. Look, I have to comment on your question because I answer it. You didn't ask a question, you appealed why you didn't give up. Did you even see that law? So, the law has not been formally introduced yet, it will be on Tuesday. So you're talking about something you haven't seen. You're scaring the same investors you're talking about here as people who have given up on something, you're actually scaring them. You had a series of press conferences the other day. That public debate about a law you haven't seen. [[You've opened a public debate, not us.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19715	Please, Your Honor, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19716	You'll see him and then I expect criticism. But let's get back to this. So you said that I can't answer your appeal, so I can give you a second argument as to why we think it's a useful thing that introduces order and which will by no means increase the tax burden. When you see the law, you'll know. And when we talk about it, about your thesis that we've increased the tax burden, we're going in a row. So we abolished some parafiscal taxes, or taxes, various fees, monumental rents. The reinvested income tax is abolished, VAT declines in tourism next year, 2% lower contribution to health care. That's all tax hikes, right? Or maybe a reduction? And a VAT increase. The ultimate result of the balance, neither worse nor down. In order to achieve something. To fill the state budget and get through these reductions that I've been talking about, and they're a fact and we can't go by logic team up by fact, admit those facts. These are the fact that we motivate a certain kind of economically desirable behavior. Are we gonna make it? As you say yourself in the economy, you never know. The economic crisis has not been predicted by the greatest brains, and especially by this scale and weight, it has not been predicted! Today, none of the smartest people in the world are economists, and this is total social discipline, and they are rarely up to it, cannot give a clear answer which is precisely the consequences of some of the measures of tax and economic policy. What we're doing, we're doing because we've calculated, we're calculating and we believe we're doing the right thing. But you can't say we've increased the tax burden. We're not, we're not! We've narrowed it down somewhere, and we've increased the VAT. And on real estate tax, I expect you to be ours and my worst critics in the days to come, but you will see that it's not middle-class taxes, that it's not taxes that have been building holiday houses for years and decades but that it's taxes but not criminal taxes but stimulating taxes on those who have real estate and hide them from the state and don't rent them in a transparent way. When they do so, the state will pick up a relatively low rate of tax that will go to local self-government, the tenants will be protected, they will be increasingly clean. And secondly, to say that in this tax cannot go among others because our messy land books are the recognition of their own capitulation. Let's tell us we're not going to join the EU because we're not ready. We're ready, we're not perfect, but we're ready. We won't have taxes that Germany, Austria and other countries have because I don't know we're not ready. We're ready, we're working on it, we're up to it, we're not worse than them. Give it to me, not to me, but to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19717	Thank you very much. Before we move to the 5th question, I would pray that the current morning in the Croatian Parliament is not being held, just for a little reason, let them hear, the current morning in the Croatian Parliament is not being reflected for the sake of any representative, not for the sake of a single minister, but for the sake of Croatian citizens. Let us be parliamentary, let us respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, let us not throw from the bench because we would confuse the speaker but not hear the Croatian citizens' meaning of the answer or the meaning of the question. And now I apologize to the honourable MP Martini Dalic but I was obliged to warn you that your comment would be heard by citizens as well as any other question and comment. Thank you very much. Here are the esteemed representatives of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19718	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm not happy with your answer because you haven't answered my question. And what I would say in commenting on your entire speech here is the fact that the Croatian economy is falling, that personal consumption is falling, that exports are falling, that unemployment is growing, that the announcement of this tax is not just announced, but is being announced from the mouth of top officials and representatives of the government, so it is a very official matter, and we are sorry that there is no proposal for public debate yet but we represent Croatian citizens here. The announcement will deepen the economic downturn. It doesn't matter to Mr. Milanovic what you said, and anyway, we here in our country have to fight to make it as good as it gets. And reality shows us that the path you're going is not good. You insist on that path, and you yourself said tax is tax, tax is burden, and with the burden there is no growth. That's what you showed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19719	Thank you very much. 5th question and respected representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19720	Thank you. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia has raised a question of write-offs to civil war victims' families, who have failed in court with claims of damages due to the death of a close person and therefore are paying high court costs today. In the 7th month of this year, the government adopted a regulation under which the right to write down litigation costs only recognises the most socially endangered families of civilian war victims. We note that in our opinion it is a partial solution, a measure that can enable the write-off of the costs of the poorest citizens, but is not an effective legal framework for all civilian war victims. So I ask the question, what does the Government of the Republic of Croatia intend to do to correct this lack of solution, first on damages and write-offs and create a legal framework equal to all civilian war victims and second on the part of making it possible to repay funds to those who have already paid the costs of litigation or whose property has been seized by the exercise due to the inability to pay these costs?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19721	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19722	Dear fellow, this is a simple question that only a very complex and detailed answer can be given. A month ago, in another of our internal discussions, I studied the subject and saw that the previous government had already done something about it, that one category of people was freed by the government's decision to pay the costs. I can't and I won't make empty promises because I never do that, but as you can see, we're working on a problem. He's not insignificant, he's a serious problem for some people who have entered relatively good faith into certain legal relations and certain litigation and now the state is looking for their own. So what we did a few months ago, you listed it yourself, is one of the possible solutions. I know it's not perfect, I can't say here that absolutely everyone in any legal situation will be free of these costs, but I'm aware that this problem isn't closed and it's not closed. So the previous government has also freed one category of litigators from these costs. If it wasn't for people to find themselves simply impossible to get out of a situation, so here we don't have any ethnically special access to a group, we treat everything equally, we're a policy, so we're going to act like one. I'll give you a more detailed answer on the parameters, and the only thing I can promise you here is that these are the things that we're going to take care of and that are burdening us as humans. But we also have to be principled, and once we're going towards a solution, we're going to make a solution that's finally because partial solutions in the end always leave one group unsatisfactory, you fix them, you patch them up, you discriminate unwittingly, so we didn't do it right. I'm saying the former government tried something, did something. We've tried the same thing, we don't finally have a solution but we're working on it and it won't be for a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19723	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19724	I thank you for your answer. Of course there's no easy answer to such a complex factual state. I note that over the past 20 years, there has been a fair solution for all civilian war victims, but it has not been found. But the bad result is that everything they are not only compensated for in court proceedings but is being punished with high litigation costs that exceed several hundred thousand kunas and because of the inability to pay these costs is being taken away from them even by the houses they now have, or no longer. I'm asking you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19725	Thank you very much. Question number six and Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19726	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Milanovic, the European Commission published on October 10th a report that you welcomed, so I believe that you also welcomed then Commissioner Fülle's statement that the intensity of the report was to wake Zagreb. If you disagree, you will tell me, but the question is why has the government led us to the situation that the commission wants to wake Zagreb. Why did the government sleep and when they would wake up because we didn't see that after the report, the government woke up. Here's to European funds, about the accreditation of the farm's direct payments agency. After the report, instead of the government speeding up the accreditation process, it slowed it down by making new rules that slowed down the agency's accreditation, and without that, our farmers will not be able to get money from Europe. So are you going to change those rules that you changed two or three weeks ago now? Here are around Slovenia, there are experts doing their job and we should especially commend our representative in front of the Strasbourg court, but it is the government's political job and you prime minister to solve those political obstructions in Slovenia, but you are not there. You want to get involved because so far we have received from the Government only explanations that we have agreed with Slovenia only that the Slovenian Government does not know yet. Well, that's not serious, that's not how foreign policy is run. And ultimately, a crucial, crucial issue of economic reform. The report says what we all already know, that the government has failed over economic reforms. Even the term non-existent, non-existent reforms are used. So I ask you very specifically to explain to us at least the 10 most important anti-recession measures you intend to propose to the Croatian Assembly by the end of the year, so until the end of this session of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19727	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister Mr. Zoran Milanovic, responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19728	So the question is very specific you're asking me to explain to you in two or four minutes, among other issues, 10 anti-recession measures. Do I have an hour? ... I didn't realize again, you went from the European Union's reports, so I'll answer that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I never deunify Croatia outside of Croatia. What you do, you know. ... I'm not accusing you of that, no, no, you certainly don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I never display documents that are very important to Croatia in black light because they are not black. Of the 50 conditions we had before, we went down to 10. Those 10 are relatively easy to resolve without underestimating. In the meantime, several have already been solved. If these are facts, dear fellow Stier, are they facts? Some things happened here by instinct because the administration is doing its job. I don't take personal credit for it, we've done some things. And you are calling for part of the sentence from the press conference of Enlargement Commissioners, which I quote is that the purpose of this report is to awaken the Croatian government. Well, that's very well you know the usual vocabulary, some kind of stimulation. We can talk about style, but I'm not his public relations officer. But the fact is that this same commission and the directorates who brought in a report like this five times, reduced the number of conditions five times. Over the years, he's saying we've been doing something. Is that a fact you don't want to see, I see it. And when I go around, that's what I'm talking about. Slovenia, I guess there's a little credit for this government. So what do you think I'm talking about and my associates when we go to Berlin, when the secretary of state comes here, when we go to Brussels every week. What do you think or who I'm talking to? But I can't do it as you know, and it's the nature of your former, former, but present, I can't talk about it, I can't hold press conferences. You have to believe me, you should believe me that I'm fighting for the Croatian thing, for our thing and when it comes to relations with Slovenia where we're looking for things that we don't think are principled. Follow international relations and you have seen that in the Slovenian Parliament one Social Democratic Party representative has asked the Prime Minister why the agreement is not ratified. That's what the Socialist MP asked, Slovenian, why not ratify the agreement. So we heard that the former Slovenian government was responsible because some things were pushed under the carpet. So you have concluded negotiations in a way that is in this respect favourable to Croatia. You see, that's what they recognize in Slovenia. And then there was this European Court of Human Rights verdict. So things don't go bad, you know, they don't go bad. From 50 to 10. We're open to doors of all the world's big cities, we're talking, we're in constant contact, and we're not perfect. But that's what I tell my colleagues outside, if you want perfect friends, you won't have friends. We're all imperfect, we're just as we are, relatively good. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19729	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. ... Let us work on respected colleagues and colleagues. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let us work. Answer, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19730	I'm not happy because you didn't answer my question. So if you yourself say it is an emergency, then it is expected from the prime minister as a cannon to know the 10 anti-recession measures this government wants to offer the Croatian Parliament to improve the economic situation. You didn't count any, you just had to count them, you had four minutes. Instead, here you are accusing us again, so that you are not ashamed to accuse us of gossiping about Croatia. So around Slovenia and at that meeting, parliament is the very one that we from HDZ, and there was no one from the SDP at that session, we defended and even said that this government did not violate the acquis, and the commission gave us the right. So how dare you accuse us? You're accusing, you're boasting. But there is only uncertainty behind this boast because you lost the compass, because the situation is going wrong, and you have no idea how to get Croatia out of the crisis, Mr Milanovic. That's a fact. Because you know, the incompetence of a politician is as devastating as corruption. A corrupt politician steals state money, And an incompetent politician and... [[Intruder Light: Time! Time, Your Honor.]] It steals Croatia, the Croatian people's hope and faith in better tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Light: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19731	I must say that disqualifications speak about who brings them out and we want Croatian citizens to hear it. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and allow everyone to state their views and he decides on it. Next seven parliamentary issues and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19732	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to the president of the Croatian government. Mr. President, your government has over the past 10 months made a series of decisions and measures that have negatively reflected both the position of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the life of its citizens, so I will remind you of these measures. First, you have stopped building the Peljev Bridge by saying that the decision to build it will be made by the European Commission if it assesses whether it is justified or not. You have promised to ratify the harmful border contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which takes away the top of the Kleka and Velika and Mali Škoj peninsula from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, as well as from the Republic of Croatia. You have stopped all activities and even designs towards the construction of the highway from Doli towards Dubrovnik. You stopped the construction of the highway from Vrgorec to Ploč, which was due to be completed by the end of this year with an uncertain deadline for its completion. You stopped all the activities for no reason and reason at the construction of the County Waste Management Center. In addition, you have abolished the legal personality, the regional service of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in Dubrovnik and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and reduced them to so-called The outstretched country service counters in Split. You abolished a city that, whose commercial significance was already in the 10th, 11th century, you abolished the legal personality of its customs office, etc. etc. Dear Mr. President, given the importance of political, economic, tourist, geostrategic, cultural town of Dubrovnik that exceeds its size of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, they wonder what they deserve from this inappropriate attitude of the Croatian government towards Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. There is an impression that the government is opposed to everything the citizens of southern Croatia care about. My question is what are you going to ban next, stop, lift in Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19733	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19734	Dear colleague, the answer to your question is nothing. So far, we're nothing, and we're not going to end anything and ban it, so no legal personality. I don't know what you're talking about! What kind of legal personality? So, that's, to you it's a subject of legal personality which is otherwise questionable whether it ever existed and is a completely irrelevant matter of the Pension Insurance Office. Do you think that's important to the citizens or maybe some clerk who's politically placed there is losing his position? Maybe that's the problem? It's not for me. So your government is going to streamline the network of courts and public institutions because it's necessary. It's a state of emergency without a big one and because it needs to be managed rationally. And in some situations we have supported it, in some you know that local politics is pressuring, people are looking closely, they don't want their court to be abolished. Because it's like I don't know what the foundation of this city's statehood is. So I expect you to behave in accordance with what you've done before, and some of the things you've done have to be done. Let us not talk about the legal personality of the premises and branches, the Institute in Split and Dubrovnik. It really isn't, I don't think it's a level of debate. But let's get back to what's important. You're saying we stopped work on the Peljesian Bridge. We? And who signed the contracts with the contractors that weren't realised? It is usually in the area of crime and that should have been broken up in agreement with those performers because there is no money for it. You know that signing such contracts is unless they're financially secure that it's a felony? Did we call you for that? So the minister was waiting to break it up. And you're accusing us of suspending the construction of the Peljevo Bridge. That's not true! We are trying to fight in the talks in Brussels for the Croatian Kuna and the Croatian euro to build a bridge out of it. We didn't stop anything. You stopped! So that was my initiative. And I'm not saying it'll work, I don't guarantee it. We're doing everything we can to get that money. Why? It's important. It's an important thing. You are talking about the 10th and 11th centuries and the significance of Dubrovnik, and you have not noticed, I had to remind you last time that Dubrovnik is not in the Croatian Constitution. I still offer you my services modestly to write you a proposal to supplement the preambles, so you suggest it if you already want to talk about the 10th and 11th centuries because I think it should be in the Croatian Constitution. We do not have Dubrovnik in the Croatian Constitution as the foundation of Croatian statehood and continuity. Pass! Let's get this over with. It's not a big deal, but it's symbolic. So we didn't cancel anything, and we didn't cancel anything, we just bring it in. Because we care about those people, too. I'm also a politician. I also want to like it, but I think I'm doing it in a slightly different way. So, I don't make false promises, I don't bring contractors and construction firms on the verge of collapse, so I create them a fiction that they'll have a job, and there's no job because I can't pay them, and I signed contracts before that. Well, you see, that's not European behavior. And the Dubrovnik Republic did not become a trade force in the Middle Ages in such a deceitful way, but because they respected contracts, they had quarantines for being a Renaissance baroque Western Europe. I'm afraid some of our politicians with that world and this advanced Western worldview that our pride has nothing to do with. So we will continue to fight for Dubrovnik, this time through Brussels because it is our territory, it is European territory and it in an adequate, fast, dignified way must be connected to Croatia, Croatia and Croatia. I will repeat it 100 times, and your efforts to accuse us of something that we are not responsible for and not calling you in a political sense are suicidal. Keep going!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19735	Thank you very much. Commentary, esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19736	Well, I'm not happy with your answer, Mr. President. First of all, when I mention the existing legal status that you have abolished the various state services in Dubrovnik, it speaks of its marginalization. The only Croatian... Dubrovnik at this moment Croatian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should take special care of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, the important difference between us and you is that we have extended its construction, extended it, and I agree with that, but you are giving up on it and you leave the decision to the European Commission. That's the difference between you and me. And when I ask you a question that question is not a reason or is not driven by a political relationship between the opposition politician and the Prime Minister. I asked the question on the basis of a historical declaration that we adopted in July this year by all political parties including your party, which together with the academic community of the city of Dubrovnik, together with the owners, NGOs signed and said they opposed this policy of the government that leaves Dubrovnik aside, which marginalises Dubrovnik. And that was why I asked questions. I ask you to change such a policy towards Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19737	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Eighth parliamentary question and respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go. [[Intruder: Domagoj Ivan.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19738	Yes, Domagoj Ivan. Thank you, Mr. President. Since October, more than 40,000 Croatian citizens have ended up in the Stock Exchange, we all know in the past month that more than 22 thousand Croatian people have again ended up in the Stock Exchange in that one month alone. Every day, unfortunately, Croatian companies that have worked neatly for decades go bankrupt. It is generally known that it is much cheaper, simpler and safer to preserve existing jobs than to open new ones as long, harder and more expensive. Why did you, as president of the Croatian government, allow Gredelj to go bankrupt, to irrevocably shut down hundreds of jobs in the production of one of the most complex Croatian products? And what can the Croatian private sector expect at this time when the Croatian government is not ready and able to save its own manufacturing companies? Dear Croatian Prime Minister of Croatia should in any case hope and optimism at this time, not bankruptcy and hopelessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19739	Thank you, too. And the answer to the question of the respected Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19740	My colleague didn't ask a question. He didn't even ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19741	I'll be happy to tell you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19742	He didn't ask a question. Now you can ask the question, if you'll allow the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19743	Please allow me to conduct the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19744	I asked you why you, as president of the Croatian government, allowed the state-owned company, i.e. the company in... He goes bankrupt? [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19745	Yeah, that would be me, so the question is about Gredell?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19746	Let me finish that. What can I expect at this time of the Croatian private sector when... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19747	In the interest of the citizens, we reiterated the question. Here's the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19748	I'd have to go back to the beginning of your exposure with the tracker dogs to remember what you asked me. So the question ends with the question. Otherwise give me five minutes to read the stenogram to see what you asked. So you're not done with the question. ... You're the one who's yelling. You're the one who's yelling. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Look, it's gonna be okay, I'm gonna be boring about it, and you guys keep doing what you want. So the question about Gredell, this whole exposé is about Gredell? Okay. So, you're a doctor by education, you have a certain entrepreneurial experience, property, we know that, earned, you've been Deputy Prime Minister and you're talking about the bankruptcy of Gredelja. As a private entrepreneur, you suggest that the state should be more protective of production companies owned by it, which is purely discrimination and anti-European behaviour. That's forbidden! Otherwise, we listened to that approach in 2000 when the former government tried to help Lenac Shipyard, so the whole, therefore, private shipyard, so the whole thing was infamously over because it was a bad business assessment and then I felt that the state should not discriminate when it was already giving subsidies, assistance and guarantees between private and public. Gredelj, led by Gredelj, was a unionist for several years in agreement between the city government in Zagreb and then the government, a man with no business experience to be produced and sold on the world market in Germany. How they did it we see it today. It is a company that was run irresponsiblely, in which wages and expenses were significantly higher than for example. in Đura Djakovic or Končar, these are also state-owned companies, and the company went bankrupt. What about the company? Well, you know that as an entrepreneur. That company will continue to produce. She had a huge number of employees as well as a number of public companies and companies that you didn't like in the eight years of your term and now we have to do it and we will do it and I'm ready to get political beatings, we will work, here alone criticise me but don't mention Gredelj because Gredelj will continue to work. And that's obvious. The Sisak Ironworks, which was not state-owned when it collapsed, were not state-owned. Here we go again. Who's responsible for that? You want me to go around and wave the flag, watch me. I'm just a little bit responsible for that. The Deputy Prime Minister first and I have been there a few times, there's been a bit of luck, the production will be back, it won't fail. Gredelj will continue to work in consortium, in collaboration with Končar and Djur Djakovic but will never again be run by petty politicians but by the best managers we have who will not be 100% of the SDP because we do not have a management academy. We don't educate people for that. But there won't be any former political friends who have ruined the company with too much cost. You as a private contractor and owner of a factory know what it is. That you can't go over some level and end up getting yourself killed. Happiness in the country is that when a country behaves like this, it doesn't fail, but it comes in a difficult state. We will act exactly the opposite of the state, responsibly, scenicly, calculatedly and calculantly quote me when it comes to Croatian interest. If you've just asked me about Gredell here, I'm already answering 3.5 minutes, I'll answer to the end. The beam will not fail, Gredelj will continue to produce what he produced earlier but will enter a new business cycle with a slightly smaller number of employees, that is correct and I do not simply want to rub salt on the wound and those who have lost their jobs, say they were excess. People have been led astray, the one who managed the system has led them astray that this will last forever, that they will have twice as much wages as they will in a related factory. It didn't last, and it's not fair to these people, the one who led them astray has deceived them. Our task, it's terribly difficult to give them a new chance on the market. Not to hire them with a party card, but to give them a chance to work somewhere to sell their knowledge, that's the hardest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19749	Thank you very much. Commentary Commissioner Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19750	Unfortunately, I cannot be satisfied with your response to the Prime Minister because Gredell is only a paradigm of the situation in 2012. If you lecture me on what the state needed and what to do in 2012, let's just remember what President Obama did for the automotive industry in America. I think that Croatia is also a tradition and the moment in which it lives is not America, so the state has made an effort to survive the automotive sector with state aid, so there is no dilemma about what Croatia should do at this time when it comes to all companies, not at all Gredelj. Gredel is just an example of what Croatia does not need at this time as a message. The bankruptcy is not a good message. I have closely followed all your answers in the past here I don't know 45 minutes when it comes to the economy, somehow it sounds expensive to me that Plan 21 could be renamed to how Croatia can become Switzerland in three steps. Unfortunately, that's not how it works, that's not how it works. At this point, you don't need a chicken in your hands, which is what you're doing. It will remain a wasteland. At this moment you need to water this little entrepreneurship and anything that still lives in Croatia Excuse me. [[Thank you very much.]] So at this point I'm going to repeat what I said at the end of the question and it was actually a message it needs optimism and hope, not bankruptcy, hopelessness, growth of unemployment. Just one more sentence, please. Last year, the government you were talking about that I was part of was a shorter member of last year's government than your first vice president who is still not sure whether the investments in his intelligence whether he was the answer to them made economic growth in two quarters in difficult conditions. This year we have a catastrophic fall and... what we have. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19751	Thank you very much. 45 o.k.a. 9th parliamentary question and respected representative Nadica Jelas. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19752	Thanks to the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. The question is for the Minister of Agriculture. We know that BiH is one of the most important foreign trade partners of the Republic of Croatia and I will document it with certain data on external trade. In the first 6 months of this year, Croatia exported 545m euros worth of goods and services to BiH. It is 12% of total Croatian exports. BiH is the second-largest Croatian export destination, right behind Italy. At the same time, the value of imports from BiH is 265m euros or 3.3% of total Croatian imports. At the value of BiH imports at 8th place of the countries from which Croatia exports the most. It is clear from the pre-deposited data that the foreign trade balance with BiH is particularly favourable for the Republic of Croatia, given that we are exporting twice as much as we import. However, we have recently witnessed numerous media reactions on both sides of the border on imports from BiH of milk and meat of suspicious quality. We heard about the announcements of more rigorous controls and the ban on importing these supplies from BiH. Dear Ministers, since your ministry is responsible for the control of BiH food imports, so for the complete control of imports into our country, please say as a responsible person what kind of new controls are they? Can Croatian citizens be calm about the regularity of food imported from BiH, and on the other hand, and this is certainly very important in the context of the current economic situation, which your ministry is taking to avoid the traditional good co-operation with BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19753	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19754	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. Trade exchange between the Republic of Croatia and other countries until the date of entry into the EU takes place in accordance with defined requirements in international agreements between the Republic of Croatia and other countries. One of these or very important contracts is the CEFTA contract and I'm going to illustrate a little since you took numbers related to food and food products. In 2012, a billion exports of food and food products to the Republic of Croatia and imports of 870 million. When we talk about the CEFTA market, then it's about 515m euros in exports, and imports are based on 206m. When we talk about BiH as our most important country under the CEFTA contract or where we are most present, exports are 350m euros and imports are only 101m euros. In particular, BiH's importance as a trading partner of the Republic of Croatia should not be stressed. In addition to this contract that you mentioned a number of other contracts that regulate and control imports of products and the other one of these contracts is a veterinary cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. We will not talk about any stricter and responsibly argue that border inspection only in accordance with its powers and national plan of carrying out the tests of analysis and consignments of imports with the aim of removing a potential residual of pathogens and other substances that would be harmful to humans, animals and the environment doing their job. Border veterinary inspection has done 52 controls this year, 52 shipments. I will note that from BiH we have 98 facilities that are authorised to import into the Republic of Croatia. 52 controls of the shipment were made and 5 samples were positive, they were not consistent. These samples have been recovered, i.e. harmlessly removed. For the first time in 2012, there is also an eyewitness with exact dates, places, times when these shipments were returned across the border to the country where they came from. When we talk about the work of inspections I must say that they are responsible, that they are of quality, that they are transparent in that part and that our citizens can be sure that the food that comes to the market of the Republic of Croatia from neighbouring countries is healthy and safe. All the moves made by our fellow veterinarians are spotlessly through my ministry's Veterinary Office, their director, Mr Kalab, and this cooperation with BiH's restoring minister is very well and is being improved from day to day. As for the part of the sensational and trendy press report in the Republic of Croatia and BiH, I find it unnecessary, I find it harmful, and in some ways the goal was to cause uncertainty, i.e. doubts about our citizens about the correctness of food on the shelves. The services working at the borders on this case will repeat the border veterinary inspection, the border inspection is doing a great job. I also believe that others in the system, inspection services that control the system itself, are doing their job. As regards the relationship between the Republic of BiH and the Republic of Croatia in the spirit of genuine co-operation with the aim of establishing smooth trade and improving these relations, we are working on a number of bilateral meetings and fellow Minister Sarovic is in Zagreb on 19th with his associates at one of such working meetings, and given the recent entry into the European Union, we also have trilateral meetings involving the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19755	Thank you very much. And a comment, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19756	I trust the respected minister that your response has satisfied our citizens, so he has removed the dilemmas and suspicions of our citizens regarding the health correctness of food imported from BiH. So you confirmed that institutions are doing their job well, and as for the talks and agreements with BiH, I think that's good, it's certainly the best way to preserve good economic relations with neighbours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19757	Thank you very much. 10th parliamentary question and respected representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19758	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Zlatar, the fact is, unfortunately, that the budgets of the Ministry of Culture have been significantly reduced, especially those for investments and protection of cultural heritage, so I ask you how will the Ministry of Culture substitute these funds so that there is no possible reduction in the protection of cultural goods and the preservation of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19759	Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Andrea Zlatar Violic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19760	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, colleague. The fact is that since 2008, around 20 million kunas in the Republic of Croatia's budget have been falling annually for investments and protection of cultural heritage, which has been partially compensated by income from the monumental rent. The memorial rent was falling on its own. Already in 2011, we actually found ourselves in a situation of only 50 million kunas that were directly reserved for these areas. This year and the 2013 plan is actually one systematic analysis and support of projects that can be linked in two parts to European funds. In the first part of 2013, there is a competition at the end of this year, it is about projects of a smaller financial capacity from the IPA line, which in fact directly support cultural heritage in that part in which it can be of additional value to tourism projects and to improve municipal infrastructure. However, since 1.7, while counting on a hodogram of European Union accession, much greater funds in European funds have been reserved for cultural heritage, so we have made a list from now on of 100 projects that will be developed and ready for candidacy in that part of the year. I have to say what the analysis will show, that just the cities and places between 15 000 and 25-30 000 inhabitants are most active in the field of reporting these projects, while larger cities are probably due to the fact that in themselves they may actually be richer in designing projects. The missing link in the co-financing chain is still the link of the county level because it would really be best if all the major projects that we are doing, which are super-regional or regional character, so those who have a national character could be co-financed in a three-way relationship, so they will share the costs with the city, the county and the ministry as much as we need to monitor European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19761	Thank you, dear minister. Commentary of Honored Representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19762	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm pleased with the minister's answer, and in this line of work, I wish you further happiness and success.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19763	Thank you for your brief comment. 11th parliamentary issue today, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19764	Thank you very much, President. My question to the Minister, the Honorable Mrs. Opacic. Namely, you are the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth. One of the basic objectives of your social work portfolio is to represent the neglected groups of society. You are the first to provide assistance and support to individuals, groups and communities who are socially endangered, and today we see that there are more and more such groups. We heard under an obligation to disappear one at a time, workers remain unemployed, more unemployed, standards fall, VAT has increased, electricity, gas prices have increased, layoffs in public and state services are threatened, school benefits are reduced, health care has seen disgruntled milkmen, unsatisfactory police officers and those who have defended us. Lately, we have announcements about pension reforms, new taxes, small craftsmen and their employees under the threat of new supervision feel like criminals. Minister Linic himself says we will have new social cases from small craftsmen and their employees and so on. We can't hear your voice, dear minister. We don't know what you're thinking, and we don't know what you're doing on these issues. My question is how many in Croatia are socially endangered today and when and what measures do you intend to stop this growth of the socially endangered and how you will support these so far listed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19765	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister and respected Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19766	Yes, the fact is that all that goes into bankruptcy in the economy is going away because it's not able to survive anymore in the economy, so it's much fairer to go bankrupt and open new, healthy companies than people going to work, not get paid. Yes, all of this unfortunately comes to the Employment Service and the welfare system. However, in this year, despite the reduced budgets, no one has lost social assistance, nor will they remain in the following year. This year we have increased the number of personal assistants for those who need these assistants. So they're people with disabilities. We settled all the money we needed for three years of association contracts by the end of the year, and when you ask me what I'm doing, I can't see what I'm doing right now, I'm going to tell you what I'm doing. I'm doing this to try to do the work your colleagues paid three years ago from the World Bank's loan to inform the social care system, so now after three years I'm trying to get the information houses to do the job they've been paid to do. So the information is according to what your colleagues from the former ministry gave to the World Bank it's written that the system works. The system's gone! The system has begun to work on our arrival. A social care application has been developed. At this point, she has lived in several centres in the city of Zagreb. Until the end, all centres, so all 11 branches in the city of Zagreb, should be tied up, and by the end of February, about 50% of social care users will be covered. What I was still doing during this period is that I finally wrote the Nanny Act, the law that was talked about for years. Several hundred women were also funded for their IPA education projects, however they could not work because they had no legal basis. The Nanny Act will be here in front of you very soon. So here's just one little segment of business that I've done at this time. I wasn't sitting on my hands!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19767	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. And a comment from a respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19768	Well, I'm not happy with the answer. In the programme of government that you have proposed to us, we consider social policy management to be one of the most important political goals that citizens need to be restored to social security. All of this numbered effort, you do. However, to raise your hand equally for all these measures that I have listed as well as for the purchase of expensive vehicles or for the elimination of excise duty on pumpkins and diamonds, I don't think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19769	Thank you very much. The 12th parliamentary issue and the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19770	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. Mr Milanovic's situation is difficult, we hear it from all these discussions throughout the morning and can really ask different questions. It can be heavy, existential or can be seemingly trivial. We can ask you if you really consider it appropriate to get new vehicles in times you call a state of emergency or if we can ask you if you feel it is okay to quote Waltaire and say that the freedom of man is obeying the law, not to an individual if you consider it appropriate to sit on a bike and drive in the opposite direction. So knowingly break the law. I could have asked you about the 3rd of May privatisation and restructuring because it's also important because of the company's future, but also because of meeting its commitments under the action plan. And that's where you're not clear. I also wanted to ask you this morning about the LNG terminal, the big bomb visit to our state delegation Katara, convincing the first two days of the Croatian public that everything is fine, that Qatar will probably invest in the construction of LNG terminals. And then yesterday we see the first vice president who says that, the goal is fulfilled. Qatar is ready to sell us gas for the next 25 years, and you build a terminal yourself along with your partners over perhaps from Austria, Austria or from another European country. Well, that's the kind of nonsense I've never heard before. We've got to look forward to Katar selling us gas. It's really not a success. But I'm not gonna ask you that either. I'm going to ask you what you didn't answer, because you probably didn't know, but in the meantime, you may have remembered what 10 anti-resion measures you intend to get Croatia out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19771	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19772	There's a lot more than 10 of them. And with these small provocations, you won't get me out of my way. But I'll answer you to something else. We don't buy cars. Then you'll say you're not happy with my answer. They'd say that one way or the other. And I'm gonna take the opportunity for the public to hear something because I can't believe you mentioned it in your exposé. We don't buy cars, it's operational business costs as you know. It's cost, like electricity and water. Those aren't our cars. Tell me if it's better to pay for the car service that the state should have 150 thousand kunas, shame on me here to say, 150 thousand kunas cost the service of a expensive car with a guarantee, a guarantee and a state owned by it, so more, that's how they behave only to sheiks, 150 thousand kunas, so I repeat on the most expensive cars total aggregate cost, look, I have no cheeks. Therefore, the former government's conclusion on the watch now, beware now as from JNA's economy of banning the purchase of new cars, I consider once so irresponsible demagogy. Cars are operational costs. I have no idea what kind of actual cars are being bought, the only order I have is the cheaper the price, the more expensive the price, the more operational leasing, the cost down. That's the first one. I'm so glad you asked me that. I'm on Sljemen every week, driving through the woods not by asphalt. And it doesn't occur to me to respond to provocations from the facebook. He could do that every week. I keep an eye on every detail, the police who unfortunately follow me so must be, it complicates my life, keeps an eye on every detail. Now the only question is, will you trust me to be terribly careful about that sort of thing or some facebook guy? It's your call. I respect the rules, the police who have special powers, who have special powers in relation to ordinary citizens and who protects me, unfortunately that's my situation, also respects them. It's a matter of trust. Will the citizens trust me or your provocations? May 3rd, he's getting rid of it. Look, we're doing our best to solve something, it's gonna be hard, which hasn't been done in 20 years, and at least the last eight years. Well, it's not fair to ask that question, it's not fair. LNG, is this where I have to ask you what you were actually thinking about LNG? So, you called the stupidity of a statement by the first Deputy Prime Minister that it was agreed with Katara that for the next 25 years, it was most likely so until they signed anything to deliver to Katara Gas. So you think that Qatar should finance the construction of the terminal. Does he finance it in Poland? Do you know anything about that? So, the prerequisite for a basic and only prerequisite for building a terminal is the strategic security of delivery. When you have a terminal building, it's a piece of cake, but without a long-term supply contract, you're not gonna build it. I mean, what about the terminal? So, he's a respected colleague, it's the other way around. Wherever these terminals are built, they are a small part of the problem, the problem is the strategic supply, and the supply from Qatar is simply worth it. The supply from a further destination is not profitable. And that's one plus one and I as a regular diplomat and a lawyer know it, you obviously don't know it, and you mock people who actually have a fig tree in your pocket. You want them to go back in failure. Maybe it won't be any of it. You want it to fail. How else can I interpret your words? And you don't even understand what you're talking about. It's a key raw material, and without the raw materials of the plant, it's worthless. When you have a guarantee that a quarter of a century you'll get the goods then you're making a huge amount of money on that stuff, and the installation is just a means. The point is in the gas. And it's a strategically important thing for Croatia, more important than the southern flow you blew up. We tried to erase it with a rubber, it's not working. But LNG, we won't give it up because we see what the interest of the surrounding states is to secure themselves strategically. Terriblely important thing, cheer for it. Here's what I'll say if it works out for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19773	Thank you very much. The answer is actually a comment from a respected representative of Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19774	Thank you very much. So again, dear colleagues and colleagues, none of the 10 anti-recession measures that Croatia will pull out of the crisis. Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know that. He is Goliath's words and Liliputan's works. That's the point of all of this that we're talking about today. We didn't get an answer to any particular question. We didn't get any plans, no strategies. We're getting verbal acrobatics here like one of the predecessors used to say. Well, I expect you, Mr. Prime Minister, to be a little more modest after the bad results you have in your first year of office, not to get high, not to be boastful because you have no reason. No one should be boastful and puffy because it's not a beautiful quality, but those who have some results can still understand that. But those who have no results, who are incompetent, whose results can be measured, and yours are measured in numbers, so where do you get the right in this way to perform and teach lessons? Telling someone he doesn't understand something? So based on what do you think you understand? Where are your results, Mr. Milanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19775	Thank you very much. The next 13th parliamentary issue and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19776	Thank you very much, President. Mr Milanovic, I did not purposely ask Minister Zmajlovic, the Minister of Nature and Environment Protection, but rather you because Minister Zmajlović clearly lost his trust and also earned the bitterness and dissatisfaction of the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area because of denying the health and quality of life from it, therefore denial, and later in one other statement that nothing can be done by 2015 in connection with the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, so one footing of the citizens of Slavonski Brod, which is why the question has been asked to you as the first man of the government. So, I'm asking you what you've done, what you intend to do and what you're doing at the moment, hasty but concrete about the ecological aggression that comes from so-called, Republika Srpska, so refineries in the Bosnian Ship towards Slavonski Brod and beyond? What you intend to do according to this work of the refinery to the authorities so-called Republika Srpska, a prama of JANAF who is also involved or involved in all of this, but also according to EU institutions that pay great attention to the environmental and quality of life of its citizens. And here's how you say it yourself. July 1st, we should join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19777	Answer to the parliamentary question, the respected Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19778	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, give me but BiH and so-called Republika Srpska doesn't. And there's the problem. The problem with the refinery in the Bosnian ship hasn't been since yesterday. We have opened it here in the former assembly's meeting not politically, not demagoguely, but purely to point out something that destroys people's lives in Slavonski Brod even as much as the question of ecologicality is the question of the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, house, apartment, simply there is heavy air and heavy smells. As far as pollution itself is concerned as scientific facts, that data is oscillating, and this refinery is now going into a remont, two months will not work, and we will measure further to see if there may be some of our guilt on the Croatian side, when we talk about real pollution, so the smell to express myself in itself doesn't have to be harmful to health, but it is harmful to the quality of life in general to the peaceful enjoyment of property. And on that side, we will put pressure on the authorities of the neighbouring country, which is unfortunately very complicatedly arranged and often you don't even know who to talk to. That's not the problem since yesterday. So I remember from 2008, 2009 local campaigns are unbearable smells from the Croatian side of the coast. Where do they come from? They're coming safely from that refinery. We have negotiating instruments to the other side because we are in a mutual relationship, so they have an interest in Croatia and transport and corridors and Croatia has interests in protecting against such harmful emissions. I have, of course, everything in detail written about what's been done and what we're going to do, but I'm not going to read it to you right now because I don't think it's too interesting for the public. It's about technical details. What I'm saying is, you can get an answer if you want a written answer, but I'd like to ask you not to make a demagogue play out of it. That's not what I'm accusing you of. If I could comment on the question was in the citizens' interest, maybe I would have put it in your place, but it should have waited for the citizens first to organize themselves and then we as politicians to react to it. So we follow, measure, we can't act extra-institutionally on the other side, but with certain legitimate pressures we can and do it because we need their cooperation so they need our cooperation. So it's not blackmailing neighbors of that I'm extremely reluctant to do it is simply pressure to solve the problem, and it'll be solved in the next two years definitely, tomorrow won't, it's been there for years, it looks like that. The problems are also in the dynamics of supplying the refinery and in the fact that it is often closed and it opens up a facility that creates additional harmful emissions. Everything's not exactly the happiest story. Who do you blame for that? Well, I'm thinking of blaming the other side of which we need to put pressure on and work on it. Thus, neither the government nor the minister can have any major political benefits, nor do we think of it that way. We can only have damage to call us. We're doing everything in our power really, everything the previous government did and everything that's realistically possible, and it's not possible to solve overnight. That's the problem. So BiH is not the EU, that the EU is and therefore not only do I plead the most sincere but only because it is Croatian interest, for as quickly as possible within the frameworks of the possibility of bringing BiH and Serbia into line with European standards and possible membership if possible because this is a guarantee that we have neighbours who play by our rules. If this split is too wide, this is just one example of what it's going to look like if we're on totally remote shores. So Croatia is one standard, BiH some standard that we have long left, and from that they have damage to the citizens of Slavonski Brod. So that's it, the written answer you'll get in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19779	Thank you very much. Commentary Commissioner Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19780	A comment? Oh, good for us. Here are two years that have been said that as citizens of Slavonski Brod, we will have a total of children, young, sick in general living in Slavonski Brod. So we wait two years, and who knows if two years is enough. Or we'll have to self-organize there like we're already doing. So here's when you come to Slavonski Brod I'm going to offer you this mask so that you can come and take a walk on our Korza to see what it looks like in Slavonski Brod. Furthermore, it is not true that you cannot act specifically because the JANAF company that delivers transports Russian oil with a large amount of sulphur and a lot of oil or lubricating can act to change it. Unfortunately, the profit and your government as well as that before is much more important than the health of Slavonski Brod's citizens, and in this bush lies a rabbit and nothing more because a fifth of the revenue from the transport of JANAF oil comes from the transportation of oil to the Rafineria in the Bosnian Ship, and only that fifth of the money for two years to be followed is 10m euros. For 10 million euros or 75 million kuna, citizens of Slavonski Brod should suffer what they suffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19781	Thank you. Time, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19782	That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19783	Thank you very much. 14th parliamentary question and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government. The first legislative initiative of your government shortly after the constitution of the Parliament was the delay of the application of the almost unanimous implementing law in the previous assembly of the Parliament. For almost a year you have promised a more humane executive law by attacking it for its lack of normity regarding the protection of perpetrators and the fear of danger from public perpetrators. Your new executive law came into force in October. I'm asking you, are the pictures of the Zadar Arbanas that we've been looking at in the media these days, where special forces are throwing the nine-member family out of their house on the street and literally dragging them down the road, whether it's reaching your declared protection of the dignity of the perpetrators. I believe that both you and the police and the bailiff on whose order it was done, and even the general public were deeply sympathetic to the tragedy of this family, but everything was legal. So I would suggest that if you are not already in the new Executive Act, I would install provisions to exclude the property that is necessary for the housing of the perpetrators. And so I'm asking you now what you and your government are going to do to make these scenes no longer repeat themselves, not to become our everyday life in view of the new property tax you're announcing, given the economic situation in which hundreds of people are left out of work, and even those with a salary barely survive, so it's expected that they will become taxpayers too, that they will have nothing to pay taxes on, that their house on a drum, and those on the street if nothing is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19785	Thank you very much. The answer to the parliamentary question, respected Zoran Milanovic, president of the Croatian government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19786	Dear colleagues, you were the Minister of Justice. The IRS completed the procedure in this particular case in 2008. What the executive power should do, therefore not the Government, is of course not something the Prime Minister or Minister of Finance decides on, it is a procedure. You had a capital impact on her. I see you've advocated the law on private contractors that we've downloaded, that's what you said at the beginning of the question. We have reasons why we took it off because we don't want the state to have virtually para-state bodies doing the same thing with the police assistance. So on the one hand, you're about to take down the law of conduct that was actually needed by the state and give the privates who were then opening offices, I'm sorry, and on the other hand you're appealing to the tension and sensitivity of people who are being kicked out of the house. It's terrible for me to look at, I mean, people who get kicked out of the house are terrible for me to look at, but it's the law. We'll do it so that the laws are strictly respected and the obligations are paid. I repeat, this case was completed in 2008. What was to be done in the meantime, to change the law to exempt from the Executive Law the property in which the citizens reside? Are you aware of the consequences of this, are you aware of what space this is for manipulation? I think it's a big room for manipulation. And now, as we define the boasts, is my response to you blasphemy, was my response to my colleague Grubisic being arrogant? I don't think so, but I can't answer you differently than ask you, it's easy for you, you took a parliamentary pension after one term. You also took a colleague, Grubisic, after one term. ... Are you telling me I'm arrogant and I'm personal? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The appointed deputy minister I personally brought to Zagreb, these are the facts, let the public hear them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A former minister, so tell me I'm arrogant and I'm telling the truth. ... So it's inadmissible for me, and I have to be personal here so that people who act on one of their own criteria call for some compassion, compassion, give them your pension. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll help them, these people won't and they didn't end up on the street. Give them the pension you took, and fellow Shucker isn't the one who keeps yelling from the first bench. This is why he didn't take a pension, he had conditions for her. ... And he's not age, otherwise he'd take it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look unconsciously speaking from you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'll tell you next time if you do, I'm assessing that your question is demagogue and incorrect and that it's dishonest to these unfortunate people who have committed a series of violations and the state has finally had to act. And that your administration, now it bothers you that I personally called you, are facts of distinguished colleagues and advocates Anna Lovrin. ... Yes, yes, and I spoke publicly about it as Prime Minister and I will speak publicly about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're not the same, you're not the same. Well, let's get this over with, make it antipathic, I'll do it again. You ask me to drive in the opposite direction 2 km/h at the top of Sljemen which is false, you have the cheek to ask, while at the same time showing examples to Croatian citizens, you advocate for the poor. People went into too many loans, they didn't pay taxes, and it took years and years, and yes, it's sad to look at it, and yes, we're going to do everything we can to make sure people don't get into such an unspeakable situation anymore. That's what it's all about, that they don't go into arrangements that they're aware they can't meet, that they're not over-indebted because there's no way Obama gives 800 billion dollars that the car industry has returned to the last dollar. So, I have two more seconds, that's it. Say I'm arrogant, I don't know how to answer questions like this because I find this human being unfair. Say I'm arrogant. If that's a description of haughtiness, I'm proud of my haughtiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19787	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19788	Thank you very much. I repeat the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I pointed to at the previous session, which is an infringement of Article 184. A Rules of Procedure where you, as chairman, insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure by giving the prime minister four minutes to answer each question, although the Rules of Procedure say that it is usually two minutes, and if the question is complex, it can be four. Mr. Prime Minister answers me, spends four minutes, talks about things that have nothing to do with my question, so he hasn't answered my question, and that's always the case. He doesn't know and can't answer and resort to the argument ad-hominem which is extremely when a man has no argument to talk about the old, and the issues of pensions that are by law, how you quoted Waltaire, and solve if you think that's a question of a moral, resolve it first in your party, with your deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19789	Thank you very much. I estimate no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first thing. The other thing I'm saying is I'm trying to tolerate asking questions in a personal way. That's what you've been doing. You want me to list the MPs? Well, guess what. As I allow them to respond in a special way. Here we leave it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be arbiters both for me and for you MPs and let them hear. If something is wrong, you have and you have had, and you will have the opportunity to say no in commenting on the answer, you did not say exactly, it is not true, etc. And protecting a party or anyone who doesn't need one here. This is all to say so that the citizens of the Republic can listen to the way they ask questions and personal animosities if you want. So it's not politics, it's personal animosities that we hear from both sides. And I don't mean to arbitration here on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think I'm going to allow each of you, depending on your conscience or your parliamentary duties, to offer to the citizens and the question and answer. I repeat, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You may, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, submit a request to the competent authority to assess this. I'll be happy if you do. Thank you. Honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19790	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I think you've hurt Article 216. The Rules of Procedure, as the article tells the MP, are given a warning. So I think we can also talk here about the government's representative in case he demeans or insults the president or other MPs. This is about insults. So, not only does he call his colleague a representative, but he says we're not the same. So, Antesic can take a pension, and someone who's from HDZ can't. Antesic is positive, so he is absolutely insulting at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community representative insults and disrespects her. And when you call upon the citizens, they will not interpret the Rules of Procedure. You will interpret the Rules of Procedure and this is your responsibility. And please tell me where the bounds of insult and demeaning are. What can we say to ourselves that we're idiots, jerks, monkeys? Will you allow that, too? So, I can't just judge citizens based on that. There is a Rules of Procedure and you as chairman are obliged to work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19791	I agree with Honorable Representative Gordana Jandrokovic. You were right at that border when you were asking questions now. But I have tolerated you because you have not crossed the line according to my criteria, which is the same for both you and the esteemed Prime Minister. And I'm staying with it. You were on the border in my court. When you asked the question and when you commented, it was more than personal, but that's your business. That's your thing. If you think I'm wrong, I don't think I'm innocent. Please make a request to the competent authority that the President of the Parliament has made a mistake, hurt Business, made a mistake, and if we do so, we will apologize to both you and the Croatian public. But don't use double criteria to ask me to apply those double criteria. Just read how you asked the question and how you commented. And I also direct the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. We're done with that. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Next 15, and I apologize. I agree. Commentary of Honored Representative Anne Lovrin on the answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19792	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, I really don't know that you can say that you're proud of your haughtiness on the question you've been asked. So if it is a question to you to ask you whether you intend to intervene in the executive law in a way that protects the most vulnerable part of Croatian society, that the exercise is not carried out on the properties necessary for the housing of the perpetrators and his family when America is thinking about it today because there are cases of suicide when people are kicked out of the house, when Spain is thinking about it, and you find this question vile. And don't tell me I was the Minister of Justice. Right, if I were a minister of justice today at the same time, I would legally propose that provision to the Croatian Parliament. And I was the minister of justice in some other economic circumstances when people lived a little better, when GDP grew up, when GDP grew, when it was the least unemployment rate from the Croatian state's drafts, and today new circumstances are new, and I would react differently today. And I expect it from you. Otherwise, I ask you whether you will apply this human law to other taxpayers, including those who rent their property and apartments in which senior government officials live. Are you going to throw them out of their apartments like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19793	Thank you very much. Next 15th parliamentary issue and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19794	Thank you. I refer my question to Mr. Linic, Minister of Finance. Here, Mr. Minister, after a series of measures such as that of your mini tax reform, such as that of an increase in VAT to 25% did not bring almost any results. On the contrary, these measures led to a further decline in gross national income, a decline in the standards of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a decline in industrial production, further poverty of the economy, led to an increase in unemployment of up to 340,000 at this time of unemployment. After the Prime Minister's statement that we were discussing a law we didn't see, about which we had no idea, and as a minister you opened a public debate first on the property tax, so you changed it into a real estate tax and practically made it clear that a new tax was being introduced to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a new imposition, a new harrassor. Is that a value of 0.2%, 0.4%, 2% or 4%, and I am asking you a concrete question whether on the basis of your statement that this tax will not be higher than the current municipal fee, whether you know what the municipal fee is in Rijeka, Zagreb or Đakov, where on the basis of what was read in the paper and what is likely to stand in the law that average of 200 kuna will jump to 800 to 1500 kuna both in Rijeka and Zagreb. As far as unrenowned property is concerned, this problem is not solved by law and tax burden, but there is a State Inspectorate that can solve the black market. So my particular question is do you know how much it will increase and how much it will affect the standard of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19795	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19796	On Tuesday, the finance ministry will release a proposal in the government's procedure and provide all reasons with examples. Which means after that, we expect most of the city associations to talk about the rate, given the diversity of the application of a municipal fee which is not otherwise tax but parafiscal violence and which is not common and recognised by any foreign investor. So we'll talk about it all from Tuesday. But since you mentioned in your question a failed economic policy then it is very simple with a few words the Government has made it very clear that an economic policy that speaks very clearly, combats the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, science in the Croatian economy and strengthening exports. And we said what are the principles that we're going to try to achieve in this year to get to that economic policy. And we said, number one, the battle for investment, for the competitiveness of the economy, for the ability of the economy to survive on the market. Second, the adjustment of fiscal discipline, fiscal responsibilities, fiscal spending. Because unfortunately, the situation found was discipline 0, non-discipline at the highest level. And third, care about the social component. That's three principles. You're all talking about the IRS. It's not true, it's lies and lies. What's the truth? The economy and the battle for the competitiveness of the economy mean 2% of the contribution rate for health, over 2.5 billion a year. It's helping the economy. Removal of the rate for forests, for water and part for monumental rent to reduce the parafiscal. We want to talk about the incentive of the SMI where we raised the non-taxable part to 240, I apologize, entering the VAT on 245 and the showerers to 149 to strengthen this sector. Are we going to talk about the fact that we've made both the decision and the legal solution that you don't have to pay the profit tax if you go into reinvestment? That these are all incentives and important for competitiveness. Are we going to talk about the fact that total indifference in Croatia is still and that non-payments are the backbone of business in Croatia? And that was the reason we were going to fight for more credit, for lower capital prices. And that we did it. That capital over 11, 12% was recovered, and that we were able to reduce to 9, and for the good companies and to 5%. Together with the National Bank, we have secured an additional liquidity of 6.5 billion that can be used to resuscitate liquidity. We want to talk about two reprogrammes that the government has offered to all the debtors, not only the economy but also the economy, so they can pay off their loans in three years and not be under the IRS press? We're going to talk about the Financial Business Act that came from just a lot of businessmen' politicians to huge resistances, and now it's understood as a model of avoidance of bankruptcy and good attempts and I'd say well-intentioned settlements between debtors and creditors? That we have the full support of the bankers in trying to solve the liquidity. Isn't that a solution to the indifference? It is also a battle for capital value in companies that can remain on the market, which can start reinvesting, which can be re-indebted. Yes, the economy has taken the biggest step. What we are part of the lost money in the economic incentives budget is passed on to citizens, which is why 2% of VAT is expenditure. But we forget to point out that we've raised an untaxable part of the citizens, that we've introduced new approaches and lower VAT from 25 to 10% to make it easier for the citizens. Yeah, prices are up, that's true, in companies. Why? Because a good part of the company was on the payroll of the state budget All the subsidies went for those salaries. [[Intruder Leko: Bring the end.]] And that should have been rationalized, and that's part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19797	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19798	Fiscal discipline, 14 billion, and now 25 billion deficits in last year's budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19799	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19800	The government's policy is that the deficit must be reduced. Yeah, they're economic measures and it's politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19801	Thank you very much. Comment Commissioner Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19802	I was willing to listen to half an hour more of this measure, the economic measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia, but the result of these measures, Mr. Minister, is that every day we have more and more unemployed people, that every day industrial production falls, that every day we have a bigger and bigger responsibility for Croatia. But I asked you for this property tax or real estate tax. This is where you opened the topic, not the opposition, in the Croatian Parliament. Somewhere earlier, you said that the state's cash register was full, that there was no problem with filling the state budget. Yesterday, we hear from the Prime Minister that we have a technical problem, that we will not end with 14 billion deficits but with 10. The deficit is a deficit. These weren't any better, either, to be clear. This tax you're about to introduce, I'll remind you that neither the Turks did it, they had 10% of them. The communists didn't do it either, the average was 15. We only have the VAT 25%. If we want to start the economy then this is not done by introducing new commitments, then it is not done by increasing VAT, then it is done by fiscal decentralisation that you promised, and there is no such fiscal decentralisation. So neither Turks nor communists, but this government does this to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19803	Thank you very much. The next 16th parliamentary issue and respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19804	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Justice Minister. The EU Commission's monitoring report on Chapter 23 specifically highlights the problem of increasing civil court cases. Although for ten years we have the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution clearly that all these years he has not fully revived even though the only right way to speed the settlement of court cases and resolve the remaining pending cases is precisely the peaceful settlement of disputes. So when we introduced this institute ten years ago into our legislation it was somewhere in 2003 that we handled exactly the experience of the countries they already had, first of all to one America who, when in one of their federal states, proved this problem they saw and said we had no money to build new courts and they introduced this institute. He was limping for two years, but after five years, they had 70% reduction in backlogs. So please tell me, what measures are now being taken by the Ministry of Justice to bring this law, the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, to the full and the parties, in a quick, simple and cheap way, to come to a fair and acceptable solution, and not as some second-rate justice, because that is exactly how both parties are satisfied, therefore it is a fast, efficient and first-rate justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19805	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19806	Thank you very much. So absolutely what you're saying is one of the problems we have in the judiciary are backlogs and especially in civil cases. In principle, what we are doing will soon be an amendment to the Law on Courts and, in particular, to the Law on Prosecution. So these are the first two mechanisms we go to to reduce backlogs in civil cases. What you mentioned, of course, is calming but I would talk about alternative dispute resolution, so it's not just a calming act, but we have other ways of resolving disputes, not only an acceptable and desirable way, but certainly a future that can only affect the resolution of an increasing number of cases, not only in Croatia, but everywhere in the world. Life relations are so complicated especially between companies that simply in the future, without finding other solutions, courts cannot deal with it. The problem behind is not a Croatian problem, it is a European problem. Many countries are facing and resorting to different methods. We noticed that the law that was passed in 2003 was changed in 2011 and still does not produce satisfactory results. I'm going to give you an example for the sake of thinking that this year in nine months something over a thousand cases 1009 ended up in the process of calming down. Certainly a result that is not satisfactory. What we are doing is not only a different way of regulating the settlement in the Law on the litigation process, which you will soon see, we are now in the process of adopting new framework criteria for judges we are trying to encourage judges to participate more and that the reconciliation in which they participate is more valued because it is one of the ways to encourage them to participate. But the peace is voluntary. You, if you don't have parties who want to participate in calming down, you can't carry it out. We're what we've done as a government and I have to say for the first time in our data that we've come from ourselves. So in June, the government made decisions that encourage the administrative alternative way of resolving disputes. Where the state is one of the parties to proceedings or where it is a public enterprise or institution. It means what citizens see as a state. At this point, there are 20,000 objects like that. So you see from how important it is to work on it. What we have done so far, we are at the end of a list of all disputes in which the state is party. In addition, our commission at the Ministry of Justice is working and is already producing certain decisions, which are precisely the result of the fostering of the peace. We also expect from public companies wherever possible in their contracts, of course, and the state to now negotiate alternative ways of resolving disputes means not judicial but alternative. So that's what we wanted to show by example because if you don't go away from yourself if you just tell someone to go to peace, it's good for you and you don't do it yourself, it's not a good message. We are also changing it through this way that exactly the state is going in this way to resolve disputes. So that's the package we're working on. What I said was legal changes, encouraging through framework standards and the conduct of the state itself. I think the conduct of the state itself is about to deliver the greatest result in this area. So that's the future, we'll work on it, we find it very important and I say we've already taken some action and we'll continue with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19807	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. And a comment from the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Thank you very much. The 17th parliamentary issue is respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19808	I'm referring the question to Minister Linic. We have witnessed Mr. Ministers in recent years of deep and difficult indifference that burdens the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, many have unloaded their business empires in their business policy, if we can call it business policy at all. This led them to a difficult position that paid their obligations to both suppliers and employees and to the state, which is also seen through the financial indiscipline of non-payment of taxes and other taxes to the State. In the meantime, the government has adopted a series of laws and regulations and measures to introduce financial discipline and order in payments both to the state and to.... Part of the economy and part of the public interpret it as even more pressure and pressure on the economy, making it even more difficult for them. My question is what is the effect of all these measures to introduce order and financial discipline in the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19809	Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19810	I will try all measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the fight for indifference listed in these 4 minutes. For the simple reason that part of the professional public and the political public calls government a tax press and tries to send very clear messages that the government should not be in the deep economic crisis in which we are engaged in tax discipline. And that this is not the tax press I begin with that one of the first measures was directed towards indifference and the Government has already adopted a proposal for the first reprogramme in February, i.e. in March 2012. All debtors, everyone, both citizens and entrepreneurs and major businessmen could reprogramme all obligations to taxes for three years. All obligations. We even gave the measure so I could pay off the debt with a write-off. I have to say the interest was quite large, about 8500 demands, and the total was over 5100 contracts. We estimated that the situation was still difficult, so the government decided to go with the second reprogramme in July and August, so we gave a new opportunity to businesses that did not report first to try again to reprogram their commitments. About 4000 reported and a little less than 2000 approved. In all, over 3 billion commitments have been reprogrammed by entrepreneurs to three years. It was the first attempt in the fight for indifference, to show that we are giving businesses the opportunity to settle their debts to the state. The National Bank, together with the business banks and the Ministry of Finance, has gone further, and this has ensured 6.5 billion kunas to enable through HBOR and business banks to strengthen the liquidity of business entities to pay debts primarily to banks, to pay debts to the state and other creditors, and only a small part to invest. And that part was used on bids of over 4 billion kuna, unfortunately it's agreed below 1 billion because negotiating with business banks is somewhat harder. But the interest in that part was reduced in part 50% to just 1.5% of HBOR's interest. Therefore, provided additional amounts and secured low interest. Assessing that all of this is not enough because the figures are constantly spinning around 44 billion unpaid accounts, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed a Financial Business Act where it tried to settle payment deadlines and replace a failed payment deadline law from the end of last year and at the same time set off for pre-demand settlements. The will of debtors and creditors to find a solution to how to reduce claims, convert them into capital, convert them into properties that are unnecessary, and thus partially write them off, all to address the heavy burden of liquidity and insolvency in companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19811	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19812	Mr. Minister, I recently had, I hope all these measures will succeed, I have to admit recently had one failure in one half of the conversation with one of our entrepreneurs who does not pay his obligations regularly, and there is a tax debt, we have seen it in published data. Of course, in that conversation he boasted of his patriotism, drilling into his Croatian chest and said that what he needed and life would give for Croatia. I said, Mr. Dear, you don't have to give your life for Croatia, it should have been 20 years ago, I hope you don't need it now and you won't need it anymore, but you need to pay your commitments to the Croatian state. Through this, patriotism and loyalty to the state are seen. I haven't been able to convince him, I hope most citizens believe what I'm saying, and maybe you believe it once.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19813	Thank you very much. Next 18th parliamentary issue and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Dear Madam Minister, there has been an attempt for 11 years to reform the welfare system, but unfortunately it has failed to transform the system. One of the objectives of the reform, and when we talk about the elderly population, it is certain that institutionalisation through the living rooms, through the Geronto home system, and help and help in the home. The ultimate goal of deinstitutionalisation is of course that the longer we leave these fellow citizens in our homes, however, the facts show that there are increasing waiting lists in homes, i.e. institutions and other socio-health institutions. The facts also show that the money needed for infrastructure is large and that it can certainly be directed towards other projects that civil society can also be included as a good partner of the state. That's why I'm asking you what you're doing to implement deinstitutionalization by reducing the waiting list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19815	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19816	As for, therefore, caring for older people when it comes to waiting lists, it is really a question of how many of these waiting lists are because there is no system register. So that's the same part of this one introduction order through the information system. And when that works out, we'll know exactly how many people we have. Because for example, when we made a adoption register out of a number of several thousand potential adoptors that were even in government official documents and in laws, we came to 364 potential adoptors. So the question is, when we make that order and clean up the database at the end of the day, we'll see how old these people are waiting for housing in their homes. But in any case, those who want to stay in their homes, who can't take care of their age, there are some good projects, and we don't behave according to the system that was before nothing was right. So we will continue to insist on these services and help in the house because we think it is extremely important. But by joining the two ministries, we've seen that we have several programs that go to the same population, so on people of older age. However, they are not in line with each other, which means that we will now make certain rules for these projects such as the living room and such as the help in the house. The same property censorship will be maintained, and we will continue to cooperate with local self-government units because we consider it to be the good way we've worked so far. However, all solutions and all users will be, in a way, covered by this service through the Social Care Centre. Because today we have a situation where in some counties we have 3,000 users of such services, in other counties we have 200, in some counties we have almost none. I think it's the task of the state in particular of this ministry that I'm headed to provide everyone with the opportunity to have the right to that kind of service, so... or this day's stay, which means that we will introduce a unique game rules for everyone in the country, and very soon you will be through the Social Care Act that will come here before the Parliament by the end of the year to have a chance to discuss this model as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19817	Thank you, too. Commentary of Honored Representative Tatjana Šimaca Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19818	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, here we see from your answer that you are introducing the structure into the system and just introducing the structure into the system that you have shown so far with your work certainly gives hope for all the necessary, and also for the proper money layout, i.e. for the end-user that everyone will have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19819	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Nineteenth parliamentary question and respected representative Mirela Holy. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19820	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer the question to Minister of Health Rajko Ostojić. Dear Ministers, the Croatian public witnessed two days ago a major corruption affair in the health system where a pharmaceutical company financially favoured family medicine doctors in various ways to prescribe their medicines. On the other hand, you often mention differences in the purchase prices of individual medical materials, between individual hospitals. How did it come to be that one hospital up to a year ago, for example, the hip prosthetic paid at a lower rate and the other one at a higher price. I'm curious as to why it hasn't been discovered and the public has learned about it before, and that the Ministry of Health is taking the initiative to curb corruption in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19821	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19822	Thank you very much. Corruption adorns two premises. First, corruption is a characteristic feature, not a profession, any profession. And secondly, corruption is a cancer, a severe malignant disease that destroys every society, i.e. destroys the fundamental assumptions of society and state, which are tradition, culture and morality. Croatians also have tradition and culture, and unfortunately in recent years corruption has become a little socially acceptable behavior. As far as I'm concerned, we will absolutely not tolerate any corrupt behavior, nor will I tolerate anyone who uses the public service for personal gain. On the one hand, such individuals are causing huge damage to most doctors who do their job with honor, honesty and dedication, and on the other, they are destroying the confidence of our citizens in the health system. We made a whole series of things. Let me only single out four. First, as soon as we arrived at the ministry, we stopped the supply of equipment 5, 6, 7 years old in some hospitals, essentially emptying the warehouse. Secondly, we've abolished the private monopoly. Remember the top technology of the 21st century and just yesterday opened a new device Neuro Bi-plane device that we have one of our Hospital Rebro, a Croatian hospital one of a dozen European hospitals. And Croatia will become an export brand because we have great people working on that machine, great people. For now, we've been on that device, our patients, hundreds of them going abroad. They're coming to us now. No private monopoly, but the privates are welcome. You're right. Just a few things. Stent was bought in one hospital for 4500 kn, in the second county for 11500 kn. The second stent was bought for 8000 kn, in the county hospital for 11,000 kn. Leža is bought in Zagreb on Rebr for 350 kn, in Zadar General Hospital for 455.70 lipa. Bar codes, exact numbers, name and last name of the lens, bar code, etc. That's what I was talking about in the fifth month or, for example, orthopedics, one hospital buys for 2400 and the other one for 4,000 kn. That's what I was talking about clearly and transparently in the fifth month. Why I was talking, so you attacked me. Some administrations have been removed, so it has been declared political and political shifts. It's not! They were replaced for waste of state money, a). I b) due to aggression on taxpayers' pockets. They've been replaced for waste and aggression. That's why they've been replaced. And fourthly, we have therefore made a united public procurement, which is an inter-resorship commission, I have asked my fellow Minister of the Interior, among other things Minister Milenić, the Competition Protection Agency for the sake of possible competition, and we have put this on the table with a thorough suspicion, possible cartel association and the Competition Protection Agency. And fourthly, waiting lists have been significantly reduced. In Shalat, she complains about surgery for 68 days, in Lovran for 150 days. There are 120 days waiting for surgery on Rebra. And we wrote it all in the National Strategy for the Development of Croatian Health. I am sorry that the opposition did not support this, this strategy, because, for example, a very clear quote from the US government "$1 invested in the fight against prevention brings $8" or, on the other hand, the EU report that in these countries, developed countries, corruption accounts for 10% of health money. I've got three more seconds, so I hope you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19823	Thank you very much. And a comment, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19824	It is clear that the Ministry of Health and the Government can do much to curb corruption, but the key role in this business is the DORH. I would just like to convey to you the comments of the people with whom I have had the opportunity to talk who welcome this action, but expect and continue to combat corruption in health and higher levels, especially to start processing and finding those doctors who are treating severe diseases, who are asking for and taking bribes from their patients because it is something that is absolutely unacceptable in society and I hope that actions and the Ministry of Health will go in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19825	Thank you very much. The 20th parliamentary issue and respected representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19826	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Leko. I would like to ask the question concerning the finality of the accession process for Croatia to the European Union to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Croatia succeeded last year thanks to the government's efforts led by the HDZ in perhaps the most unfavourable conditions in which the EU found itself to conclude negotiations and to make assumptions that we would become a member on 1 July 2013. You took over the government the moment after the referendum there were three capital processes left to complete. The first is the timely ratification of the Accession Treaty, the second is meeting the monitoring obligations and the third is preparing for Croatia's membership and active role as observers in all institutions. You mentioned today that the European Commission, after its report in October, has said that only 10 priority measures remain for Croatia. That is what we call them in Croatia obligations or as they are called deliverebeles. You said it was a fact. I would, however, remind the Croatian public of the Croatian Government's Action Plan which you adopted right after the publication of the Commission's report, which has about 10 obligations of 20 measures, and with regard to all other obligations mentioned in the report, all 52 commitments and 107 measures. It is a demanding, serious business that we know very well and that we are aware of and that we consider to be an opposition that used to be a government can help you fulfill it. And we are therefore in all our activities very actively to fulfill it. I am now asking you to elaborate on those measures that are important for the key Chapter 23, which relate to the effectiveness of the Croatian judiciary, and in particular to reducing the number of pending cases in front of Croatian courts because it is one of the preconditions, key preconditions and future increased investment in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19827	Thank you very much. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19828	Dear counterpart Plenkovic, I see this as a momentary attempt to help solve those open issues that we have with us first and foremost because they do not really stand in our way of joining the EU. We've had negotiations and conditions like none of the states before us, those who follow if they follow will be even harder. And in those negotiations, we made commitments and we got conditions that had nothing to do with the EU acquis, but it was a political condition and either take it or leave it, we couldn't do otherwise. So also in the area of justice, and so in the area of the exercise of justice, and so in a number of things which therefore represent exclusive competence and competence of the Member States and will continue to be so. This is the essence of sovereignty that remains for us, and we will in fact continue to edit much of our lives ourselves. So also in the Penal Code, so also in mentioning the Law of conduct, so also in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which we here in Parliament have criticised, it concerns the judiciary and one of the conditions is, let's say, a new year or before the formation and constitution of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Did you see what happened 10 days ago? The Croatian Constitutional Court practically kicked out of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests a whole series of provisions that were actually constructive, which were negotiated with someone in the European Commission and which were taken as a condition for Croatia's entry into the EU. Formally still so, however, we now have a law that is completely decapitated. So, we're going to name this committee because I don't want to play with the criteria, I just want to be strictly formal, but it's actually completely unthinkable. Why am I saying this? This is about a series of measures here in Chapter 23. After all, you've made sure there's a whole series of groundhogs out there. Exactly what it says there in the Action Plan, you probably have it in front of you, that's what we're doing. But it's a job for years ahead of us. When we talk about the backlog, or the number of pending cases, so there are no confusions, so it's not just some big property or criminal items that are, it's also a series of ordinary rushes and trivial, banal documents that, if they're not solved, enter that quota. The Croatian judiciary is far from perfect, what we must ensure is zeitgest, so the spirit of one time simply providing politics, that people have confidence in it, that foreign investors have confidence that in a liberal democracy, EU members will have their investments protected, their property, their property. And when we talk about it, please don't promise things that are completely unrealistic. Promiseing that this will be an exception to the property in which someone lives is irresponsible because it is impossible for colleagues and colleagues. This means in other words that the bank will give you a mortgage loan for the house and that if you don't pay, I can't move you out. Okay, but you know what, then there's no credit. It's a closed circle. Let's be responsible people, and let's not promise impossible things, and we don't. Such things we fight for trust and things so help us and I have called you for your words on the board and here please be constructive. If there's anything wrong, say it. It does not mean that we have to be closed mouths outside, but to declare to the board that the change of government has led to the de facto cleaning and replacement of a whole set that has done the negotiations and that for this reason Croatia, it is the tone record of a colleague and colleagues and that Croatia has problems, it serves as a ammunition for people who would like to do little trouble at the end and have nothing to do with it. It's just not true, it's not true in the police. I mean, look at what kind of competitions have been carried out by what criteria for directors of police administrations, let's see that the closest associates of the former leaders and the current political leaders have remained in the highest positions. Let's see, just for a second, that the heads of the intelligence community are 10 months in our mandate, they've tried to construct some affairs here, 10 months of full trust in these people, and now new people have come after the term of office. And I said that I would not allow anyone to be the same judiciary and fundamental rights, of these people found on the road like Ranko Ostojić 8 years ago and to be because of what he did well for Croatia insecure him or his family, it happened to heaven, it's the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19829	Thank you very much. Commentary of Honorable Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19830	I'm glad you told the Croatian public that you called me for something that wasn't just you, but they weren't even respected members of the SDP. Here is a document of the committee's positive recommendations, which has assessed the Commission's report as encouraging to end the timely ratification that I have dictated. I'll give you later not only a tone record but a transcript of what I said. And if you think that opposition MPs go to parliamentary meetings should read speaking points written by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, then I am sorry that in the last term you were not a member of at least one parliamentary delegation and to see what democratic, pluralistic and critical discussions are like at parliamentary forums. You abused and through some of your media insinuated something not only that I didn't say but I said first of all things that are true and true. I said that when there was a transformation of ministries on the occasion of taking over from you, none of the former or none but many of the state secretary and former directors remained on their duties and that it felt like the functioning of European affairs. If you think that's not the case, ask a little outside the circle of those who work with you. And I said that in order to strengthen administrative capacity and if you read the EU Commission report carefully Dear Prime Minister, it is our job to strengthen administrative capacity, not to weaken them. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the intrusion.]] And it is extremely malicious to claim that any of us at this stage would do something about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the intrusion.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19831	Thank you very much. Now we stop and go back to this assembly 25 minutes to 1 hour, so 15 minutes break. Thank you. Dear colleagues, MPs and respected colleagues, respected ministers, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, please take your seats so that we can continue with the current morning. There is a 21st parliamentary issue and a respected representative of Zlatko Komadin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19833	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, my question is about the survival of Croatian shipbuilding, specifically for the future of the 3rd May shipyard in Rijeka. You have already mentioned in your reply to Mr Jandrokovic's exposés in part today, but Mr Jandrokovic said he could ask, but in the end he did not ask for a specific 3rd May, so I ask the question on behalf of 2500 3 May employees and about 1,000 of their co-operatives and dependent companies operating with 3 May, as well as on behalf of the people of Rijeka who sign a petition these days for the survival and future of 3 May. I don't have to elaborate too much on May 3rd, otherwise Croatian shipbuilding is one of the few Croatian traditions, one of the few manufacturing industrial activities, one of the few export activities, and otherwise in the government programme and in the orientation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the battle for the preservation of jobs for economic operators, especially for export. In this context, I am as interested as the public I was talking about, I believe the wider Croatian public as the future of Croatian shipbuilding, especially in this specific case on May 3rd, how the plan or restructuring programme and possible privatisation is going and what it is about if Croatia as the majority owner of the present shipyard as well as Brodosplit finds no valid buyer at this time. What about negotiations in terms of concluding with the European Union and entering the European Union, does this mean the liquidation of shipyards that do not find a private owner because we are witnessing that there are a number of economic entities in the world that have a state as owners, and we are also witnessing state interventionism, especially the countries of the European Union at these times of crisis and in fact fighting to preserve production activities. So in that context, I'm interested in the situation of May 3rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19834	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19835	Thank you very much, dear fellow Komadin. You are, and if I'm not mistaken, you've fallen out of May 3rd and worked there and you're a little subjective, and we're all subjective when it comes to something as authentic and our own as Croatian shipbuilding because many countries have seas, Croatia is not the only one, but shipbuilding is something that has been in decades and centuries our trademark. Here we have knowledge, tradition, it is Croatian material culture. Unfortunately, not only for the past 20 years but also for the last 20 years of socialism and that system has not been managed properly, and the citizens of Croatia have all paid these debts, irrational business, in fact, to waste money. It was also clear when entering the European Union that one must come to an end, and that is the end. So the conditions are very clear, either it will be privatised or the state will have to return all those duties that it has given during one period of time to resuscitate shipbuilding, i.e. concrete shipyards, squires, which is something we don't want to think about at all. But we're not only thinking but we're doing it, and that's how, from the first day of our administration, our administration, our government, I'm practically not going to say zero, but legally, we've been looking for a solution for something that hasn't been found for 20 years. A huge debt, a vague perspective, we seem to have it at this point. I'll be careful, we almost got him, let's wait a little longer. So you know that a decision has been made at the Government on the privatisation model of the Oils and the role of the 3rd May in that whole story. So it's business-related, there are guarantees for it, it's approved by the European Commission and it's for us both a financial and emotional issue. We're not going to let that go to waste, but that's going to be as good as it is now, it won't. He won't be able to go anywhere like he's done so far. So there will probably work a slightly smaller number of people than in all successful companies, but the Croatian flag will continue to fly and Croatian ships we believe more quality and expensive for richer and stronger customers will come out of these tours. At this point, I'm still at the minimum of the restraint that some seriousness requires me to say that we seem to be close to the solution that we've drawn in the decision on the privatisation of the oil that you know is going according to plan. So it's a successful privatisation, small shareholders have practically taken over the company and it's a model that can be done well. So to finish, in these 12 months, there were no scandals in shipbuilding, there were no blurry jobs, there was no withdrawal of money from the shipyard, and at the same time we had to make very complex and sometimes insecure business and legal decisions. Even around Brodosplit, so I don't skip him here because it's the only big southern shipyard in the north. There were two in the south: Trogir and Split. So there was a Croatian company without experience in shipbuilding but growing pro-pulsive, ambitious, energetic that entered a relatively uncertain business but it is the nature of business, it is the nature of business – uncertainty, sometimes adventure, desire for success, and the state there must provide those basic conditions I would say. And when we talk about interventionism, everyone in Europe and the world is trying to help their own. We are entering the European Union at one of the most awkward moments perhaps than ever, because under the strictest rules of state support, we must capture countries that are twice as rich of us, which are among the richest in the world. At our stage of development, they were all subject to looser rules, including Korea, including China, and Japan. America is a story to itself. As you can see there, it's possible to give billions and hundreds of billions to the economy, which, in turn, brings back interest. That wouldn't work in Europe. So we're going to play by the terribly strict rules and it's not the SDP and HNS or this government or HDZ that's not to blame. It's just like that, that's what we've defined ourselves for. And when it comes to ecology and the Bosnian Ship, they're very strict rules. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19836	Thank you very much. Commentary of Honorable Representative Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19837	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you'll agree that you should always help when it's difficult. I mean, when it's easy to help, you don't have to. The global market is, by reason of the crisis, such that the number of orders is otherwise smaller and that the competitiveness of our shipyards, otherwise our industry is questionable in view of the price of work in the Far East, primarily competing in terms of shipbuilding. But one thing is unquestionable, which is the quality of Croatian ships. On May 3rd, he certainly produced over 20 ships carrying the title of ships of the year in the world during the period during which they were built. Simple tradition and knowledge woven, knowledge of many ship-citizens, engineering and various other engineers I believe is a guarantee that a competitive company can also be created with quality restructuring. And the special symbolism of May 3rd is to be honest with you very important. I don't know how many of you know why May 3rd is called May 3rd. May 3rd is called May 3rd because on that day the city of Rijeka is freed and for the first time is a unique town of river attached to Croatia's homeland, so here I am in favour of the survival of our shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19838	Thank you very much. The next 22nd parliamentary issue today is asked by the respected representative Marija Vukbratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19839	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Environment and Nature, Mr. Zmailovic. Dear Mr. Minister, you can see in the media writings asking the question of the quality of environmental impact studies. Information appears that the European Commission has warned us of the insufficient quality of individual studies, and we know that these studies are the basis for the adoption of various permits, solutions and in the ultimate line of serious procedures and investments. My question is: Please answer me what the situation is with the studies and what the ministry is doing about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19840	Answer to the question, honourable Minister Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19841	Thank you very much. The honourable MPs here this question may not be so relevant in terms of the daily political issue, but it is vital and vital to restore confidence in the system. So, in a system that's authorized by a part of the authority, so the studio maker to defend the public interest, the general interest. And that's why in the past we've had some cases where some studio makers have done really bad studies, and today with these big investment procedures that are planned we're also having big problems. But what is very important here is that we must not succumb to generalization and say that all the authorities, those who have the permission to make studies, are doing bad studies. What has not been done in the past, which is to introduce order with the authorising officer and that those who do one or two bad studies that do not pass on to professional committees to abolish their permits. Therefore, this ministry will take a number of measures and take steps towards introducing discipline and withdrawing permits for those doing non-quality studies, and a new law that will quickly be found on your benches will improve the conditions for obtaining authorisation from the manufacturer, and licensing will also be introduced, i.e. professional examinations for natural persons working with the authorisation authorities to raise the scale and service the conditions for making those studies. In order not to have only this repressive part of the story and the introduction of order and discipline, the ministry has already begun in cooperation with professional associations a number of guidelines or other words of standards that must satisfy each study related to a particular activity or profession and thus that study which does not meet those guidelines and those standards will not be able to enter into the procedure in order not to drag these processes into the issue of large investment permits. So, in addition to these activities that we are going to, which are already being taken and which are being taken into new laws, there will be conditions to tighten the conditions and introduce order in the quality of studies. The European Commission's very big problems and remarks are on those projects for which the studies and solutions on the acceptability of environmental procedures have already been issued, and yet more procedures have been launched before 2007. In this respect, the new law will also limit the deadline, so according to the law before 2007, those solutions are worth endlessly. Therefore, this area will be regulated in a way that we will set a deadline, and if that investment is not launched within that time limit, it will simply have to be restarted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19842	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. The next 23rd parliamentary issue is the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19843	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. Dear Mr. Minister, the economic situation in Croatia is difficult, and it is even more difficult for Croatian citizens. The Prime Minister depicted the fact that many Croatian citizens, as a rule, over-indebted themselves in foreign currency, for which many found themselves under duress. We cannot just give up on forced payment, and contrary to what opposition colleagues say through the example of the Executive Law, we have done a lot of things to make forced payment easier, i.e. to become more just, for example, by raising the price for which real estate can be sold at auctions. But you'll agree with me for sure that's not enough. So I ask you what Croatia, what can the Croatian government do at this time to facilitate the position of those citizens who are under pressure, who are under credit? For example, by introducing some institutes known in other Western, modern states such as the Institute of Personal Banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19844	Thank you, Your Honor. Answer your question, Minister Orsta Milenic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19845	Thank you very much. So, of course, we are aware of the situation in which citizens find themselves often not by their own guilt, namely the loss of work, etc. Many find themselves in a situation where they cannot repay their debts, i.e. they cannot meet the obligations they have made. One of the things we think about and who are on the table in our ministry is the introduction of a possible personal bankruptcy institution. However, I would like to put things here first, perhaps as they are, if the public did not speculate with that institute as a solution to all the problems. So, what's this about? Personal bankruptcy is known to many countries. In Europe, for example. Germany, Belgium, France, Slovenia and it seem to look very tempting, however, it is a very difficult measure. You're actually the person who gets into it losing some kind of business ability. All property goes into bankruptcy, so the person who's there will theoretically lose the car if he has it, he won't be able to buy a cell phone without being approved. Any consumption other than necessary life over a certain period of years which determines that the necessary repayment of debts is under absolute control. Experiences in Slovenia tell you that such personal bankruptcys are several hundred a year. A lot more has been expected, but people have now stopped. So that's one measure that can help some of the citizens, which can introduce order and stabilize some things, but at this point we're still thinking about seeing that we wouldn't possibly cause an even bigger problem with it. It also raises the question of cost. You have expenses, someone has to pay for it. The citizen in bankruptcy cannot pay for it, and the cost of this procedure is very high. The European average is 4.5 thousand euros. So somebody's got to pay for it, too. So, I'm saying it's not a simple thing. Technically, the easiest thing to do is to set it up, but we also want to be just and find the right solution. So that's what we're working on, we're considering all the possibilities, but because of all these things, we haven't come up with a whole solution yet. The other thing is they've taken other things at the same time through pre-determined settlement and bankruptcy. So it's about companies. We talked about amendments to the executive law that made things easier for some people, and I would tell the citizens to make it a fairer way to pay. Every performance, every such procedure is difficult, of course, and whoever it is, and whoever's exposed and whoever's carrying it is in trouble. But that's what we did. So now we're considering this possibility for a while. We just need to see what other people's experiences are like, they're not good everywhere, so here we go. At this point, I can't talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19846	Thank you very much, Minister. And a comment from the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19847	Here, thanks for the answer. Of course, I did not expect you to offer a solution now, but I am glad to see that it is being handled because the Institute of Personal Banking, however difficult it is, is generally known, it is also applied in a society of total liberal capitalism such as the US legal system and precisely with the aim of reorganising debt and layoffs, i.e. the liquidation of debt to the debtor. So, with the aim of protecting the natural person, with the aim of protecting the citizens. Of course, with the detention of the Institute of Payments to Trustees. And that's why I'm expressing my satisfaction with this answer, but I hope, of course, it's not just a personal bankruptcy institute, but it's going to try other things. For example, the attempt to swap loans, i.e. the rates of loans with the lease and the transfer of ownership of apartments to banks, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19848	Thank you very much. Twenty-fourth parliamentary issue and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19849	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, since the minister to whom I should have asked is no question, may I then ask the Prime Minister a second question spare and there is no point in asking a question, there is no deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19850	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19851	I mean, can I ask the prime minister a question? I'd ask the current question since it collapsed... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19852	Your Honor, you ask your question you have a right, you get it, and if no one knows you'll get a written answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19853	Okay. No. Then I'll ask another question. Here's to the Prime Minister because it's a current issue, and the question is that since we've heard from journalists and read on portals, it can't be more current that the first Deputy Prime Minister has received unconditional imprisonment since the year and month or 11 months, I don't know exactly, 11 months, so you can answer how the government will behave and what's the next move of the government since it's said that the Deputy Prime Minister should go to detention within two months? There's a very short question, and I've only been up for a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19854	You'll get a gift for this time-sating. The Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19855	Dear colleague, I've seen it. ... But this is probably more interesting to him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately at this point, I can't confirm it. So the answer to your question would be hypothetical. And I'm very interested in having accurate information, and I'll be able to tell you exactly what it's about. For now, I'm afraid I can't say more. So everything remains in the sphere of hypothesis and what the first Deputy Prime Minister used to say. It would be irresponsible for you right now, I know that's what you're interested in. I'm interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19856	Thank you very much. Commentary Commissioner Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19857	Of course, this question was not malicious, this question was because we were all interested, published by Reuters, Reuters we can't stop it is an agency that doesn't publish unverified news and no one is happy about it, but we're simply interested in the vice president of the government. I hope that you will soon inform the Croatian public, check the information and inform the Croatian public what the Government will make one of the most important people, the people who cared about the economy in Croatia, have to serve the prison sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19858	Of course, but we must go ahead and ask the 25th parliamentary question and respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19859	Your Honor. My question goes to Minister Jakovini. In September, there was a very difficult incident I would say with catastrophic consequences, it was floods caused by a huge wave of water on the Sava, very similar only to a small scale, and then in northwestern Croatia in the area of Varazdin where the same zone that died last week was affected. On the night of the 6th of the 7th of this month, an identical thing almost happened. The water wave was so high that it was once again threatened by the rash in the area closest to Velika Gorica that it was the Turopoljski attachment from Ščitarjev to Strmac and turned out to be activated very late because the concrete constitution on it was built too high. It is obvious that the canal is activated only when the water supply reaches 710 centimeters, which is not enough because a huge amount of water is running towards Drenj, where it is then calming and rising rapidly, and it threatens all the settlements downriver from that point. Since twice in a row in two years it has been established that the water supply facility in Jankomir is obviously inadequate and that it has been publicly warned and I have warned in the Assembly but the past government has covered Croatia's waters with its authority and said that nothing bad has happened despite all hundreds of flooded houses in the area of Velika Gorica, I am now asking you now to seek the establishment of responsibility for this situation and will you order an emergency reconstruction of the overrun in Jankomir so that this no longer happens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19860	Thank you, too. Answering the parliamentary question, Minister of Honor Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19861	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, counsellor. Climate change, or agro-climate events, is something that has been shaking all over Europe for twenty years, and then does not visit the Republic of Croatia. In 2011 and 2012, we had as a consequence of these changes come great damages, actually the elemental accidents of the type of drought, floods and the like. In 2011 and 2012, we had large droughts, 2010 which you mentioned as this year were floods. This should be taken into account if we look back at the amount of rainfall as far as we can figure out that it is generally almost equal at the annual level with a slight tendency to fall, which warns us in some way when the dry year is still going to fall enough amount of rain, which is some estimated average for that year and then happens to things like this until the flood. In 2010, we had a catastrophic situation because the system has failed in some segments. Croatian waters as the most responsible institution in the water economy for one of their activities have protection against harmful water action through a flood defence system. One of these flood defense facilities is the Jankomir bay that you mention is located on Savi upriver from the city of Zagreb and is listed at a height of plus 697 to 710 mm, which corresponds to a water wave of 1900 metres cubic in a second. Unfortunately, the drastic changes in Sava's morphological trough are primarily thought of because of the uncontrollable management and arrangement of the corite itself are now taking place when there is a lot of water wave, about 2300 meters cubic per second on these floods and large amounts of water this year we are not fortunate, all the system has done its job well in the preparatory section, strengthening the embankment, on duty and on the other. I take this opportunity and employees of Croatian Waters and Water Company, Public Fire Department, Local Self-Government, Service 112 to all those officers, doctors who have done a responsible job during this critical period and have done well to congratulate and thank him. But there's this thing that this dressing that you said should drive away and prevent somewhat from correcting the water wave that's coming should be done urgently. In 2006, project documentation was already made. Why did not those who previously led Croatian waters or were responsible for the work of the Croatian Waters and Resolute Ministry take all the necessary steps to correct the fixed constitution, i.e. the trim of Jankomir. I won't comment, it will... surely in the next period it will be a priority. By lowering the level or model of the arrangement of it... we will come into a situation that we will be able to release the water wave sooner, that through the canal of Odre or the Odran field will make it to some kind of detachment of the downstream part of the Sava and then this kind of threat will be much smaller, or it won't be, which does not mean that the entire system should not be laid down so that the defence against the harmful action, the system of building up the rivers themselves, and the cleaning up of riverbeds that are not in function as well as thinking about the implementation of those projects that are important. And before that, I'm going to come back now because there was one question or comment about events on the Drava River where we had a water impact of 3300 cubic meters per second which is... wave and which with such a system of dams and this kind of system we have, the flood protection facility couldn't avoid the spillage and damage that had taken place. The elemental accident was declared, the municipality of Cestica suffered the most, according to the preliminary data we have damages, caused damage in five settlements of the Cestica municipality around 27.5 million kuna. We expect more data from Međimurje County where the same was a lot of damage. What we need to do on the Dravi River means...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19862	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19863	Priority projects on two new batteries and arrange old troughs. This object will be edited.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19864	And a comment from a respected representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19865	You know, Ministers, and I can see from your response that the Sava-Odra root canal was built precisely because of its large absorption capacities, especially the possibility of accepting water in the Turopolje Lug, which is a large century-old oak forest, to prevent any threats from Zagreb and downriver settlements. We don't have much time, this situation is likely to happen at this time. The possibilities are very high. If the project that was made in 2006 has not been realized by 2012, of course it is necessary to look for the culprits in the leadership of Croatian Waters so far, I would like to do so, but I appeal if it is possible to turn the engines on this problem on fire, so that we do not look again at the fall of next year, and as far as the situation in Drava is concerned, it is clear that from 2010 to today they have not been adequately re-recovered dikes that have protected the facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19866	Thank you very much. Next 26th parliamentary issue and respected representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19867	Thank you very much. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Milanki Opačić. My question concerns nanny status in the system of extra-institutional child care. So there is no child in Croatia who is guarded by a legally employed nanny, and we are all aware of that, and aunts who guard each house by one child do not register, they cannot work legally and await the announced Nanny Act. Can you tell us when the Law will be referred to the procedure and what newspapers it will bring into the system of extra-institutional care for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19868	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Respect Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19869	Thank you very much. So the nanny law, as you said, regulates extra-institutional childcare, so we were careful not to enter the part about pre-school education and this institutionally organized childcare. It's about a whole new law in our legislation, so we haven't had such a law in our system so far, and the fact is that so far this area has been completely unregulated, and so far maybe a lot more people could come under the influence of the state inspectorate than it really has been, because we're all aware that parents don't have enough room in mangers and kindergartens, so obviously everyone's looking through their fingers. The problem, however, is that we have 200 and some women who are trained to be babysitters, but they could not regulate their activities. So this law opens up the possibility of registering the activities of the nanny, we have opened up all the possibilities that exist in Croatian legislation in terms of regulation of this type of job. What's at this point proved to be the most rewarding is registering the crafts. Perhaps with some additional changes to other laws in the coming period, there will be some more forms of registration that may be more favourable, but at this point we have what we have and so we have the whole story and regulated it. On the other hand, this law regulates the minimum conditions for the nanny to meet. Minister Mrsic will help us with the fact that temporary and occasional childcare can also be regulated through some voucher mechanisms to make them even more accessible and more favourable and that they can also be regulated occasionally and temporarily. And I have to say, there's also a call from our ministry to the local self-government units. Since preschool activities and childcare are part of the unit of local self-government, we have sent them a letter informing them that by the end of the year the law will be in the parliamentary procedure and most likely early next year and adopted, so that they can provide certain funding for the co-financing of the nanny. Some units of local self-government were positive and said that one part of the money, as much as I can provide for co-financing, would be of great help both to the nanny and to the parents themselves, that they could pay this kind of childcare as easily as possible. In the end, I'd just like to say one more. Many studies have shown that parents find it difficult to decide on a number of children precisely because of lack of service. I hope this service, the nanny service, will help one part of the parents overcome their business and parental obligations more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19870	Thank you very much. 27th parliamentary issue and respected representative Dragutin Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19871	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I refer my question to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Ms. Tamari Obradović Mazal. The investment cycle carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to a significant extent or to a significant extent includes investment by public undertakings. The statement by the Minister and the Government concludes that they are not satisfied with the intensity of their implementation. However, we have witnessed that the proposed model for public companies is easily yielding results. A construction operation has been encouraged especially in low construction because even though jobs are slowly being opened. This refers in particular to the activities of both Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads and Croatian Electroprivreds. As an example, I cite my county where over 80 such projects are worth more than 100 million kuna. That in this way, some of the jobs in the county were saved and opened, although unemployment is important, I argue with the fact that in my city, the number of unemployed registered at the Employment Office was reduced in October compared to the month of September. I must say that private investment and private initiatives and foreign investors have certainly contributed to this. The question will continue in 2013 and increase the activities of public enterprises as part of the overall investment cycle of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because projects especially in small towns, in small areas, are related to the restoration of roads, drains, construction of protective dikes and other objects of protection against natural disasters, home restoration, public lighting raises the quality of life and are of interest to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19872	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question Deputy Minister of Respect Tamara Obradovic Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19873	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you, Your Honor, for your question. It's very simple, the answer is that for at least two reasons. The first plans are investment by public companies, so besides those you listed, I would also add a potential investment cycle of public enterprises in the section concerning new exploitations that will be opened as early as next year. But also because we have to make up for one difference, one difference between the ambition of the plans that we had from the beginning of this year and looking at the figures that we have today according to the realization. You mentioned yourself in your question whether or not we can be satisfied with this condition. Let me answer that we can't be completely satisfied, because ambitions were bigger because the plans were bigger. But also the obstacles that had to be removed required perhaps more operationality, more time to be invested. I can now say that we are satisfied with a billion and 35 million contracted kunas. I can say that we are satisfied with the increase in the realization of, for example, 121%) in energy or 124% in transport or by 126% in the segment of the forest and water. But still, even though the realization of the year is even about 124, 125%, although we have exceeded the year-to-year investment in the public sector and increased by 25% again we have to have this move and target, this moving target that on the one hand has to bridge the difference between what we realistically expected for this year and switch to plans for 2013. A very concrete investment cycle for 2013 will already be presented by the end of this year. I note that in the presence of all ministers, the first vice-president also regularly has a continuous evaluation of the progress plan and the investment cycle, business monitoring, but also the monitoring of the restructuring of public enterprises in the segment, therefore absolutely every operation envisaged for this year as well as for the next. And just more notes for 2013. As a result of a series of projects launched this year, the most important segment to be launched in the market for engineering, construction operations, the construction of the facility itself begins in 2013. So you can expect to continue and increase the continuity of the investment cycle next year. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19874	Thank you, too. Thank you very much, no comment. 28th parliamentary issue and respected representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19875	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question concerns and I refer it to the Minister of Health, the Honorable Mr. Ostojic. In fact, almost a full decade has been invested in preparing for the construction of a new General Hospital in Pula. In these expressions, I will invest a very hard 10 years of energy, both from both regional and national level in solving their problems, especially technical, economic, and all with a view to providing Istria with quality health care primarily for its citizens. Fortunately today we are at a time when all these many issues are resolved, when many problems here are behind us and that today there is really no longer any reason for this valuable and most significant investment to finally go into realisation, and actually at a time when the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia is making great efforts to actually start a complete investment cycle. I know that we are waiting for more necessary consent, including guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to call for a tender for construction, so I am particularly interested in Mr. Ministers when, above all, your ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will perform these last formalities so as not to waste precious time and to allow the opening of a public tender for the necessary works. My particular question is when do you expect, in what time will consent be issued, and when will the necessary tenders be called? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19876	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19877	Thank you very much. So a specific question and a concrete answer. As you know, we immediately launched the first tender for the construction of Pula General Hospital in January and February, with the notice of course of Mr. Prime Minister. It lasted three months and unfortunately only one bidder came forward that we removed together. There's been a re-competition. There are now two bidders. A final decision is just being made, and definitely in the next few days, that story will be over. In other words, in particular, Pula General Hospital is our priority, priority for the citizens and citizens of Istria, but of course all those being treated in that hospital. So, the story lasted 10 years, as you saw we brought it in in the first three months, or repeated because of the competition of one bidder we were forced to repeat during the summer months. I personally apologized to Mr. Branko Vuksic, so allow me to apologize to all of you at a delay, but today is the World Sugar Day organized by the World Health Organization. So, a day because of 300,000 citizens who have diabetes and everything that my colleague Jovanovic is trying to introduce and introduce very well, which is health education, I had to be in two places at the same time, and I don't have the possibility of levitation. But, of course, once again, I ask you to accept my apology from my respected colleague and colleague, and my colleague Vuksic will receive a written answer to his question within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19878	Thank you very much, Minister. I estimate that we have not violated the right of counsel or of public interest, so your apology, which is rightful to every man, and especially to a responsible minister, I respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19879	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19880	Please, nice. We move on to the 29th parliamentary issue, the honourable representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19881	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ms. Tamari Obradovic-Mazal. The purchasing power of citizens has fallen, industrial production, GDP, retail traffic, goods exports have fallen. Companies like Željezara Sisak, DIOKI, Jadrankamen, Kraljevica Shipyard, Gredelj, also fell on their knees, Brodosplit, Croatian railways, Rijeka 3rd May with a hundred of their co-operatives. So everything that wasn't supposed to fall, and everything that wasn't good is growing. Prices rise, inflation rise, citizens' debt rise, the number of blocked accounts of citizens and businesses, and 52 000 and 500 workers remain unemployed in 2 months and at the Employment Office are currently 340,000 unemployed. This unemployment, Minister Mrsic commented on as a forecast for the new year. And the most successful measure is 10,000 young, educated and smart people who see their future as going abroad. So I'm asking you how many jobs are going to open in the next six months and hire workers on your promised investments?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19882	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Deputy Minister of Respect Tamara Obradovic-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19883	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for asking, Your Honor. One part of the answer to your question is also contained in that part of the previous answer to the question of public investment, as well as the launch, so let me quote myself, the launch of the engineering, construction sector, the entire supply chain and the entire cooperative chain again if nothing else employs the workforce. On the other hand, you mentioned a series of companies that I quote, "they fell," but I would add, and they rose. You mentioned to the Iron Man Sisak. We have a new owner at the Sisak Ironworks. So, one part of your question as I would say right at a strategic moment ended up where the sequel was supposed to go. The Sisak Ironworks have fallen, but the Sisak Ironworks have risen. The Sisak Ironworks will re-produce and re-employ people. You mentioned the DEOKI while completely ignoring the months-old not only agony but also the government's efforts to enable the company with its facility in Krk, with a facility in Zagreb to lead to the state of stability and the possibility of enabling any production. There's been a lot going on in those few months. The Parliament's session was interrupted because of the DEOKI, also what the government had done and the efforts it had made ended on the cover of one daily newspaper when it was all over. Until then, it was insisted that the government engages in the DIOKI. We're engaged, and I'm asking you to consider that. The Prime Minister answered the question of what happened to Gredell. Gredel is a company that will work, which will produce in that segment what was inevitable, and that is bankruptcy will not prevent him from working. You mentioned Jadrankamen, please consider the same fact as the fact of my ministry's efforts, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Labour on that file. That Jadrankamen works and he works and hires and pays the salary, has his own market, delivers raw materials and we have investors for the Adriatic. No, there's a small role for the government in that segment you mentioned. The Queen, the inevitable fate of the Queen was bankruptcy. Today we have 20 companies with their offers that want to work there, who have expressed their willingness to enter that section and work, to hire. I am very specifically holding in my hand 3.5 billion euros potentially literally 31 private investment projects coming into the Republic of Croatia, which we are currently processing in our ministry and the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. What I would appeal to because it is our common goal, to attract investment both foreign and domestic. On the one hand, remove barriers, on the other hand welcome domestic and foreign investors. Tomorrow, when this 31 project so far comes to Brodsko-Posaviska, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Požega-Slavonska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Zagreb, Primorje-Gorski, Zadar, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska County, when the executive authorities process them, when all steps by local self-government must be welcomed by those projects. Don't be a barrier, be a help, be a hand help, give the door open because that way we'll hire the locals and our people here at least on these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19884	Thank you, too. Commentary of Honorable Representative Zlatka Tušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19885	Yeah, I'm not happy with your answer, because I've specifically asked how many workers will be employed in the next six months, not to tell me the exact number, but based on investment, are we listening to this for the 328 days you've been in power, practically certain promises. I think the time has come for something concrete to be done knowing that investments have fallen three times since the same period last year, that according to the World Bank, we are in 139 places out of 185 countries for investor protection and, according to the ease of business, we have fallen four more places and we are in 84th place. And that's why I'm unhappy with your answer. I thought he'd be more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19886	Thank you, too. Next question and respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19887	Thank you, Mr. President. This issue comes from the polling base from Split, being asked through us by the smugglers, these are the women of the Independent Union of Brodosplit in Split. The question has been asked to the two ministers and they are asking for a written answer, and this will also be for us to ask if they do not look at the document that what they have asked through independent representatives in Split will also be answered. The first question for Minister Orsat Milenic is how is it possible that the indictee for crimes of rape in the Homeland War is a police officer of the Vukovar-Srijem Police Department suspended on the day of his sentence in which he was found guilty and sentenced to 5.5 years in prison and in a... court hearing escaped from the County Court in Osijek and two days after that he fled Croatia? Why were no measures taken to prevent this, and will anyone answer for this failure? The second part of the question, and on the same case for Ranko Ostojić, or his deputy. What will they do about a convicted police officer convicted of a crime of rape in the Homeland War who is found and extradited outside Croatia? until when will he receive his salary at the MUP and will he have to pay back the wages he has received since the time of his sentence? Here is the answer for the public now, but the signatories who asked us through the Office of Independent Representatives in Split are asking for a written reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19888	Your Honor, you are aware that within the framework of the current clock or the current morning, a representative has the right to ask one question to a minister. We appreciate this to give you answers in writing, but for the purposes of the current morning, decide who you ask the question to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19889	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19890	Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19891	Thank you very much. So I think that case happened in September this year. We have requested a report on the conduct of the court, so that is what is within our jurisdiction and no failures have been identified. Namely, the conduct was in accordance with the law. In this case, the detention has not been determined. The defendant is found to be free until he hears from the guilty. The court took a break for counciling which is also a common procedure and sometimes even the sentence of a delay for three years and at that time the prisoner was then not a prisoner but then still the defendant who became convicted had escaped. What is of course we have this problem that has come up with us is a problem that unfortunately appears in all European countries. One of the reasons for introducing a European arrest warrant is that. One of the reasons why we insist on various agreements with neighbouring countries is precisely this, a person who is inaccessible to our persecution bodies flees to a country we want to get to it or to endure punishment there. So that's what we're working on through these agreements. The other thing is that we are also thinking about amending the Code of Criminal Procedure on the introduction of that formal obligation is the presence of a verdict. It does not exist at this time, so there is no such legal obligation and it did not exist at the time it happened. However, I must warn that, due to all circumstances, this will remain primarily a formal obligation because the measures are meant to ensure that you provide a mandatory presence could ensure someone or if that person in custody is under direct supervision, and all other withdrawals of the passport and, in fact, as in this case, is not always effective. So make.../Speaker off./... search that she is also international and that we will expect that person as well as others sooner or later be brought in and responsible for what they are convicted of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19892	Thank you, Minister. And a comment from the respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19893	Thank you for your response. I hope with a written answer, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19894	Next, the 31st parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19895	Your Honor, Mr. President. I will ask my parliamentary question to the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Mr. Minister, faced with shocking information about the pension performance of 14000 Croatian pensioners in the amount of an average of more than 2000 kuna per month, so all these are performances greater than 1/3, which is not in accordance with the applicable Executive Law but with a law that was in force until June 2008 and an additional 9000 users who have plights greater than 1/3, I have sent one initiative to three ministries: the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance to answer me if one technical provision could be prevented through the operation of the HZMO suspension of more than 1/3. I expect a written answer to this question, my initiative, but today Mr. Minister I ask you, faced here with this fundamental threat of Croatian pensioners, those who are the weakest link in Croatian society, do you think that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and HZMO should develop one more quality protection for these pensioners given their advanced age, given their insufficient information regarding their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19896	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19897	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So it is true that in Croatia, at the moment, part of the pensioners are faced with the problems of paying off loans, about paying off other payments that are related to the very documents that these pensioners have signed since 2008. So under the Implementing Law, it was before possible to sign a statement certified by the public notary that you were allowed to be taken from you from 1/3. As it seems, in September this year, the tightness is, therefore, there are also executions and credits and premiums of supplementary insurance and membership fees in the HZMO itself 45 million kuna for more than 23,000 pensioners. Unfortunately, most of these are performances, so the executions of more than 1/3 income are calculated for more than 14,000 users, which is 31 million kuna. In the Pension Insurance Act, there is an Article 93 which states that the pension is subject to the procedure of enforcement so that, for the payment of the claim on behalf of legal abstention, it can be taken up to a maximum of 1/2 and for other claims, not more than 1/3. The compensation for physical damage shall not be subject to the procedure of the application. So it was settled in the law, and the institute referred to the Ministry of Justice a request for interpretation, so whether Article 93 is applicable, given that the Executive Law makes it very clear that all the performances that took place before the entry into force of this law must be completed under the previous law and the Ministry of Justice is... that the Executive Law is above this law and that unfortunately the performances carried out under the previous law where it was possible to impose more than 1/3 that they must be implemented under this law. As for the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in the Pension Insurance Act, there is this possibility, but I think the main focus is the law on performances where another mechanism should be found. Naturally with the new law that it's no longer possible, but for these pensioners who signed it, it's a public record I.D., we also have court rulings. The Institute must comply with the applicable law, therefore under the law which was previously on enforcement and this current law, so that there is no room in the Pension Insurance Act for this to be done in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19898	Thank you very much. And a comment from the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19899	I'm satisfied with the legal interpretation because I know it myself, but I asked if it was possible to develop a stronger protection role and create new protection mechanisms in the Ministry, or HZMO, because I'm sure that debt reprogrammes can be achieved are not just about the performance. There's 9,000 loans in the suspension with more than 1/3 pensions. Look, we have one problem that's very real. So when our pensioner's retirement is being made, he asks for information on who did it, telling him he can't give him information because it's personal data. So, the pensioner doesn't even know who made the decision over his pension. So that's the part where I asked for a question. For the sake of communication and with the retirement associations that supported this initiative, please write your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19900	Thank you, Your Honor. Next issue of 32nd and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19901	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question was addressed to Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Dear Mr. Minister, your decision from this school year in primary and secondary schools is conducted through four modules. Through the fourth module of health care, so-called sexual and gender equality and responsible sexual behavior are promoted by certain worldly, moral and valuable attitudes and there is actually a problem. The problem is the imposition of a worldview, one-mindedness, of abolishing the constitutional right of parents to choose and the right to raise their children, their children according to their worldview. Instead of supporting plural society, you impose one ideology, and you abolish the freedom of parents and their choice. Are you aware that by doing so, you have denied the fundamental constitutional right and the freedom of parents to raise their children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19902	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19903	Dear Representative Babic, thank you very much for asking me this question. I am very aware of everything I have done together with my associates by introducing health education, education and education for health in all primary and secondary schools. After all, you heard today that today is World Diabetes Day, that 316000 people in Croatia suffer from diabetes, and that only 180,000 people know that. Therefore, education and prevention, let us ensure our young people the future message of today's World Day against diabetes, which is actually a message and health care. Everything you said wasn't true. So I am fully aware that health education is one of the best moves that represents the achievement of the pre-election programme of the winning coalition and the achievement of the Croatian government programme, which says on page 24 that health education will be introduced that includes the elements of sexual education. You don't have to answer me, but I'm wondering if you've read the Curiculum of Health Care? You read it. Where does it say what you said? Nowhere. So, in front of the entire Croatian public, I responsibly argue that the behaviour of certain associations is malicious, irresponsible, that it spreads untruth and misinformation. Four health education modules live healthy, prevention of violent behavior, prevention of disease and addiction, and a fourth module that is not sexual education, which is not the introduction of sex into schools, which is not preventing parents from continuing to raise children in their worldview, but is a module of gender equality and sexual responsibility. In the Republic of Croatia, we still have peer violence, domestic violence, gender violence, we still have a rise in sexually transmitted diseases, we still have unwanted pregnancies that are then caused by a major accident in the family. Why do we have all this if raising in the family has been good so far? All this evidence is that Croatia needs education and education for health, just as it was made by experts not Jovanovic, not ideologists, but experts from the Education and Education Agency. The modules you're talking about are modules that allow children to get information, get insight into the possibility of thinking differently, and then when they come home, they can sit down with their parents and talk about what they heard from the module sexual, gender equality and still think about the worldview as their parents say it. Education and education for health, health education has been passed according to all the laws of the Republic of Croatia, subject matter is required for all children, their parents, teachers, teachers, directors. And every kid who doesn't come to that class will get an unwarranted watch. Health education as we propose it is actually education and education that will allow children to learn about themselves, to learn about the differences in society and to be better, better citizens of Croatia. If we take the objective of modern society as a free man, there is only one free from fear, and education and education for health with a module of sexual, gender equality and responsible sexual behavior is the way to have free people in Croatia. I'm going to warn you equally, and I'm going to remind you that in the course of biology in a different way, human beings are interpreted, and religious science at the same time in another way, and there's no confusion and normal teaching is taking place. Therefore, I am aware that by introducing education and education for health care, I have made it possible for Croatia to have a much healthier and happier generation in ten years than these today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19904	Thank you very much. Commentary of Honorable Representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19905	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't expect a different answer from you because it's in contradiction with everything that's actually being introduced by the module, the fourth module of this health education. But not only that, but in our country, and in your government, everything seems to be collapsing the institutions of this society. Because if that were the case, my Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic of Reuters would not have found out today what is actually going on with his first Deputy Prime Minister, he would have gotten it through the service before any Reuters or any journalist. The only institution that has not been destroyed, the only institution that is still healthy in Croatian society, is the family, and in this respect you ecldently violate certain laws, rights and conventions. So I will remind you of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly stipulates that parents have the right and freedom to decide independently about raising their children. The general declaration of human rights also says parents have the primary right to choose types of education. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Protocol 1 also speaks of this in the performance of its functions related to the education and teaching of the state that the right of parents to ensure education and teaching in accordance with their religious, philosophical and other beliefs will be respected. Also, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. It's not a question of health care, and we need sexual education. You were talking about three models. I welcome them. It's slow this quarter. It's how it's best to do it more successfully. I'm sorry, it's just for the end. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] I'm the father of five children, two daughters and three sons. So do I, like all the other parents when their kids come home from school, ask them what was at school and what was at class? I certainly don't want my daughter to come home from school tomorrow and say, "Dad, I'm not your daughter from today, I'm a man with a vagina." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19906	Thank you, too. Please peace, please peace. Thirty-third parliamentary issue and respected representative Martina Banic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19907	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Dear Prime Minister, we can constantly see that there is a brain drain in Croatia, an outflow of ideas, an outflow of projects. The only stable inflow that merits this government is the one at the Employment Service. This is where our government reacts infallibly because it drives thousands of people to the Stock Exchange daily. Every third person on the Stock Exchange is under 34 years old. The young are rejected by the employer with reason you are overqualified. In the last year, about 10,000 young educated people have left Croatia. In order to prevent this you offer a model of volunteering for 1600 kuna that degrades effort, money and time invested in acquiring knowledge and ability. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, how do you intend to provide an opportunity to stay young in the Republic of Croatia after college?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19908	Answer to the parliamentary question, the respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19909	Dear colleagues, all of what we do, which we talked about several times today, regardless of what I was asked to do here as in a car school or at some rate of 10 measures, I talked about them, and the finance minister twice more precisely. Whoever was listening could have heard. But these are fiscal measures and they are not what pleases us. But demagogue aside. So, 1600 kunas per volunteering, that is, for the traineeship, is a demeaning? I don't see it that way. I worked as a lawyer in court for free. I know many doctors who have done so. This is an opportunity for people to keep in touch with their profession after they graduate, simply not to rush as they say they are running, to participate in the game and to wait for a simple opportunity. Every one of us is waiting for a chance. So, to call this underestimating work I don't know if your first job might have been at the party center, mine hasn't. Up to 33 years old, 38 years old. So my job was first as a volunteer, i.e. a minimum paid trainee at the Court of Justice in Zagreb. No more than that. And then, along with a lot of people sitting here in your benches, I worked at the Foreign Ministry for 200 and 300 marks. And that's how it is. So let's not call things a wrong name. You've had your political exposés, so let me have some exposé, too, given that this is the last question, and I'll use my minutes here. Some obviously want to talk as little as possible and not give people space to say what they don't want to hear. Your predecessor is talking about the fact that I should have learned from the service about the verdict of the first Deputy Prime Minister. From work! Which one? Intelligence? The ruling of the Hungarian court. Are you aware of what you say? And secondly, if I didn't find out, and I should have found out from you, then those services are doing their job. And you left them. We didn't like them like that, we did! Do you understand the logical sequence? Yeah. You think you're right? So we haven't touched them, but fortunately these services aren't so bad and it's not their job. It's not their job to snoop around Hungarian courts. What I need to find out is I'll find out. What you... Do you mind? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's another minute and forty. Because this is the point of the debate in Parliament. She may be both rude and resourceful, but you're bothered by the facts, but God damn it, there won't be a team worse by the fact. I'll bring out the facts I believe in publicly, and you'll bring out yours. And you're not gonna stick up our complexes and treat our... So, just keep throwing out the first bench because it's the only thing you're obviously capable of. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Just take the congregation pensions and give me some Antesics, just you do it, and then still face someone here to give moral lectures. Don't do it, or let me speak, because look, I am embarrassing myself in front of the Croatian public. Isn't it in your interest for the Croatian public to see that the incompetent and unarrified prime minister has? Well, that's good for you. You should be in favor of me talking for five minutes, 10 minutes to make everyone despise me and hate me. And let me bid myself on it and assess how much it is to my harm and to the harm of my government and my colleagues who will probably tell me after this you're no good, or they won't tell me anything, I don't know. So, a little modesty, a little humility, and define the concept of haughtiness. I may be rude, but believe me, you're necessarily making me feel bad about this behavior with your guard and your insinuations, and whenever I try to be polite and wrong with the label, I don't want to feel as bad as any normal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19910	Thank you very much. Reply, i.e. commentary of honor, Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19911	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you haven't answered my question, of course, as you haven't answered a single question before. You asked me two questions, one thing I was busy on the party track was? I didn't. I volunteered as an intern for the ministry contest. That's one thing. The second thing you asked is, do we want an incompetent prime minister? Of course I don't want an incompetent prime minister. But I'd like to say something about young people. Since this government is very good at caring for young people to hire, local elections are near. I can help my colleagues from the SDP and, on their behalf, start a pre-election campaign with a sentence, we export ideas, not smart youth. You once passed that flossula as the 5th point of Phantom Plan 21 when young people in Croatia really believed you. However, if you are preparing a plan 22 for local elections, I ask you nicely to insert a point in which you will explain to young people why they are enrolling in colleges and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19912	Thank you very much. And now a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19913	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 212 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which says the speaker can only talk about the matter under the established agenda. I understand Mr. Prime Minister and his nervousness and what he said and put it in my mouth. I didn't say it, nor did I say it to those who I thought it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I didn't mean any other service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19914	Thank you, Your Honor. This is not about the topic of the agenda but about the current morning in the Croatian Parliament answers and questions about the current topics. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure and there's nothing else I can say. Next issue of 34th and respected representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19915	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs. Ani Mrak Taritas. Although the Law on Legalisation of Objects was implemented through many public debates, extremely high quality and you yourself were practically in every county, municipality, city in this Assembly is also very good quality by debate and this law, and now many calculators and other tools are available to calculate fees. But in recent days, various interpretations of the legalization fee have come back. For example, it was mentioned. how three or four times less money needs to be allocated to the house by the sea than the farm inland. So is that really what it is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19916	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question Deputy Minister Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19917	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, thank you very much for this question because I think this is a place and it's time to say a little something about compensation. So through the media, several variants of both written media and television have created a problem of compensation. What we need to say is that we need to compare the same situation. So the same building that is legalized in the construction area and that is legalized by the sea is 7 times more expensive by the sea than in the construction area. If we want to go further if we compare the farm with the same purpose in the construction area and the cottage by the sea then the cottage next to the sea will be legalized 21 times more. But if we compare the agricultural facility not to tell the shed as it was said in one media, so the shed declared an object of 2 thousand square meters high, so 2 thousand square meters and 200 times 10 meters and compare the cottage by the sea of 70 squares, of course, in which case this facility will cost something less than a cottage by the sea. So if we compare the same facilities of the same purpose within the building area and by the sea is 7 times more. If we compare a farm in the building area and a cottage by the sea, it is 21 times higher, so 21 times higher. What you said was that you only made one law that we tried to be operational, that it was simple, that the documentation was very simple to do in favour of it is the fact that within a year of the former law there were about 15 thousand demands, and in two months of this law there were just as many as 15,000 demands. In addition to this, the fact that my fellow architects working in private companies are actually saying that this moment is the main part of their work being legalized. But what we need to know... is the next thing we knew where we were fast and operational was not the law was a regulation but remains a problem of municipal compensation. The law allowed a year after legalisation, or after legalization, a man who legalises must pay a communal fee. The communal fee is in the jurisdiction of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, we on several occasions and have called not only to abolish the municipal fee but to think the same way about paying for the wars that we have allowed to pay in 60 wars or over 5 years. What we must say is that we can show one satisfaction. Some of the offices or cities that have shown themselves in statistics are quite poorly based on the law and the possibility of hiring trainees with 1600 kunas, so volunteers hired them, they will issue those solutions that are relatively easy to issue, and they have also kept accounts and communal contributions also made it possible to pay in wars. So the return from the field is also quite good. Just to conclude, we need to compare the same house, the same purpose in the construction area, and the most sensitive areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19918	Thank you very much. And a comment from the respected representative Marijana Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19919	Thank you for your response. With this, he has really removed many doubts, dilemmas, doubts that arise, and this is absolutely necessary because of our citizens, and the more they go with the application for legalization of objects. And it is also important for cities and municipalities and for Croatia to really get an orderly system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19920	Thank you, too. And 35th parliamentary issue and respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19921	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for Minister Linic. Dear Ministers, cash business data show a low income display that points to an apparent possibility of tax evasion and recorded cash-paid income in some activities, and a part of the entrepreneurs say that knowingly non-payment of taxes means their survival. Mr. Minister, is this an acceptable condition for an orderly economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19922	Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19923	Mr. Representative, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to implement the fiscalisation process. Fiscalisation is a series of measures that try to register cash traffic in the business books of each taxpayer. The government estimated that this situation in Croatia is unsatisfactory at the moment. 15 per cent of cash traffic does not indicate a real situation but is estimated between 25 per cent and 30 per cent. Incomes of individuals living from their work show that they are simply insufficient for the normal family maintenance process. Therefore, revenues from 85 to 110 kuna in the activities of cafes, bars, shops, restaurants simply mean that they are not shown in the business books of real estate traffic. Even lawyers, and there are over 2700 registered, show an annual income of 80,000, and their assets are far higher than they show for their shown income. At the same time, the latest findings with the lawyer show significant tax deviations and the solution issued that the tax must be paid. It's all the reason we're estimating that we have an evac in the cash business area when it comes to tax collection. It's not just a matter of income in the state register, it's a problem of unfair competition. All those who today say they will not be able to survive after the introduction of fiscal registers are unfair competition to any tax-paying economic operator, who pays his workers, who pays his contributions, who respects legal regulations in the protection of the environment, in sanitary regulations, etc. Therefore, we want it and it is the government's obligation to secure a loyal match on the Croatian market. Therefore, one reason is to receive and increase budget revenues, and the other is a loyal game. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, seeking to compete with neighbours in Europe in 2013, decided to further reduce the VAT rate from 25% to 10% for food and drink activities. Thus, the vast majority of entrepreneurs working in the area will now have far more competitive power, meaning lower rates and the possibility of economic activity without tax fraud. All of this has obliged us to approach the introduction of fiscal accounts and to assess that with fiscal accounts we will also have regular revenues in the budget, that we will have real traffic in the business books of taxpayers and a loyal match if no one can object to us to encourage and protect those who are irresponsible in paying taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19924	Thank you very much, Minister. And a comment, honourable representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19925	Mr. Minister, I'm convinced the government is doing the right thing by insisting on this. It's really socially unacceptable when an entrepreneur in a daily newspaper admits a few days ago that, I cheat on my own country, I don't pay taxes because I wouldn't be competitive then, I'd be threatened, etc. It is a shame that someone can speak publicly at a time when workers pay their taxes neatly and for a salary of 3,000, 4,000 and less kuna. Who's asking them? Those who actually go from 25% to 10% of VAT if they work normally don't see any reason to be afraid of fiscal cash registers and I don't see any reason to sabotage their own country where their costs aren't really big or threatening them. It's sucking, exploiting, destroying the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19926	Thank you very much. The next 36th parliamentary question and respected representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19927	I thank the President of the Parliament. The issue is for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds Branko Grcic. Dear Vice-President, it is recently stated that the success of withdrawing funds for projects financed from the European Union's funds has increased from 37% to 60%, which implies the creation of additional jobs in jobs related to the withdrawal of funds from these funds. My question is what is the total value of the projects being implemented and prepared and how do you expect to make use of the funds available from the European Union funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19928	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, respected Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19929	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the latest information on IPA's contractual assets in all 5 components shows that we are currently accurate at 58.5% of the contracted funds. Since at the beginning of the year when the new government came to the Bane Courts, we had 37% of the funds contracted, I really believe that this has been made very significant progress, so 20th and some percentage points or about 60% more of the funds agreed than before. In euro, it is somewhere out of 670m euros available, now agreed 390m euros, which is a respectable amount. When it turns into kuna, it's almost 3 billion kunas of project value. So far, 505 funds have been paid. So somewhere around 200 million euros is paid to contractors, service providers. So, all those businessmen who were in any way involved in the realisation of these projects. These projects that are further implemented, so 200 new million euros are under way and will be completed in about two years, according to rule N plus 3 which are currently being implemented significantly. However, what is very important at this time for Croatia is to say what is waiting for us next and next years. As is known next year, we have the first time using the 450m-euro structural funds, and then every year a billion to a billion and a half with a growing trend until 2020. It's a huge amount of money that you really need to prepare a huge amount of money for and in the people as you said, so in the frames that will do the whole job, and also in the money. So the money we need for two basic purposes, which is the preparation of very valuable, especially these large infrastructure projects and the money that needs to be provided to co-finance projects, which is somewhere within the range of 15 to 25% of the project value. I'll tell you what, since you asked that at this point we have identified projects in different areas worth 20 billion kuna. So, very different phases of project preparation, and what I can say at this point is that this is, for example, water supply in Osijek, water supply in Vukovar, the drain system in Poreč, the drain system in Čakovec, Bikarac, the second stage of the dump in Sibenik-Knin County,... So prepare a large regional waste disposal site in the north. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That it is the railway line Dugo Selo – Križevci na 5B corridor, that it is about the railway line to local Zaprešić – Zabok, that it is about the biocenter in Zagreb, at the university, equipment of laboratories and the Centre of Excellence at the University of Rijeka, about the Varazdin Technological Ark, about grand schemes for small entrepreneurs in industry and tourism, about projects to promote employment, education. So, a very broad spectrum, but I stress very concrete projects whose value at this point is 860m euros at high level of preparation, and of which there are even 80% of the EU funds' grants. All of these projects will be agreed at the end of the thirteenth, because earlier is not possible and especially in the fourteenth year so that this initial swing I hope to realize with more people and more money to prepare this whole story. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19930	Thank you too, Deputy Prime Minister. And a comment from a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19931	Thank you. My question was partly motivated by criticism both in the public and on the other hand, so on the investment of additional funds and the involvement of additional professionals in the area. It should certainly be pointed out that each kuna invested in this business gives three. That kind of work is almost gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19932	For the sake of the record, it was a comment by respected representative Drazenko Pandek. Next, 37th parliamentary issue and respected representative Zeljko Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19933	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. So my question is about the Croatian forests, or their restructuring. In their business, Croatia's forests have always earned profits so far, and it should be stressed that they are not burdened with the state budget, but that they participate in filling it. On the other hand, forestry has always meant existence for Gorski Kotar and its people, both in the past and today. According to my knowledge, there is a restructuring of the Croatian forests. I'm curious about how it's meant to be implemented, what a new organization in forestry brings us, and what is meant to be achieved by it, and what role does the new Forest Act play in all of this? How this whole situation will affect all forestry, the forestry of certain regions, and I am particularly referring to the Kotar Mountain and its impoverished population. Does this ultimately mean a reduction in the number of employees, and an even greater departure of the population from this abandoned area anyway, and with this in relation to and in this context I am also interested in the perspective of conditionally speaking... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19934	Thank you, counsel. Your question will be answered by a minister, a respected Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19935	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, Croatian forests are a company whose primary aim is to manage the forest owned by the Republic of Croatia in an environmentally, socially and economically acceptable way. I will agree with you that for many years the Croatian forests, which actually had a profit-making business, and also taking into account regional development, are supporting various local units of local self-government, communities, events, but also that social moment through ensuring the population warms up in something cheaper. Also, a little more quality analysis when we're talking about profit, that profit is actually symbolic because we're talking about a total turnover of over 2 and a half billion kuna. It was never greater than 1% to 2% by good analysis of the situation in the Croatian forests we actually came to the fact that Croatian forests were quite bad, inefficient and intransparently structured in the company itself, but so unfortunately it was their business. Even more unfavourable is knowledge if we compare them with societies owned by countries, whether new or old members of Europe, where we see that this efficiency, structure and way of functioning of state-owned companies and forest lords is much greater and much more effective. Yes, there is restructuring ahead of the Croatian forests, in fact there are three restructuring studies that have been carried out for 10 years. The first was Austrian, then Irish and the third was doing our Faculty of Economics where all three confirmed what I was talking about and said unfortunately that one system that has about 9,000 people is actually too big, too massive, not efficient, and in the structure is not as well-assembled as the structure but as well as the way the company operates. We decided to go into the restructuring of the Croatian forests, we started serious talks and negotiations with both trade unions, and our goal is to make Croatian forests, i.e. to optimise the business within the Croatian forests and create an efficient business. At no time do we say that the basic activities and basic functions of what are Croatian forests will be reduced in any way. When we talk about a non-quality and non-transparent way of doing business only in the Croatian Forests in 2003, there were under 50 employees, and in December last year when I took over the ministry 189 people were in the directorate. It is that disproportionate between the production and the people who are in production, which are in the basic function of the business of the Croatian forests themselves in relation to that cold drive, i.e. the red tape that has multiplied for various reasons. In this part of it, which is particularly important is the attitude towards wood growers, towards the state sector. I will only mention the importance and importance of this segment for the Republic of Croatia's economy. Over 7, nearly 8 billion kunas of total traffic, 2 billion and 800 are exports, about 500 million are exports of the final, or furniture of high-income products. This completely different partnership relationship between the Croatian forests and the new project, a new model that we have set all these months before signing will guarantee a much more high quality, more transparent and new price list of wood assorting companies in the Republic of Croatia, an efficient and high-quality, transparent rebate scale that will encourage the highest level of final in woodworking and multi-annual contracts. Something our wood growers never had, including... which seems to me now somewhere previously joined in the cluster very clearly showed their interests, but also all those who are high-quality wood growers and who export and thus expand and improve their business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian forests will be better, better quality, more transparent in a good way, there will be no link between unnecessary layoffs, unplanned layoffs, and even less to the outflows of rural populations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19936	Thank you, Minister. And respected representative Željko Mirkovic comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19937	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am pleased with the answer offered, and I hope that my Gorans are too, but all those who work or will work in Croatian forests and those who live from the processing of wooden varieties are also from these forests. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19938	Thank you, too. Lastly, 38th parliamentary question in this afternoon and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19939	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Yakovina, warmed up, so I'm not going to interrupt the continuity, either. I'm going to ask him one question. Mr Minister, it is known that significant efforts have been made in agriculture over the past 7, 8 years with the aim of increasing and improving agricultural production. Operational programmes have also been known to deliver results in each sector. I will refer, of course, to livestock farming because livestock was and should remain the feather of Croatian agriculture. These efforts have therefore produced significant results in livestock farming, increased milk production, and in some ways a significant number of stops have been restored. However, there has been a significant decline in livestock production since the beginning of this year. Which can therefore be shown in several basic data. More than 30,000 cows ended up in a forced slaughter. About 3,000 farms are closed. The number of milk suppliers therefore has also fallen significantly. If we compare not only the number of milk suppliers but also the quantity of milk per supplier is reduced. So there are, for example, data, they can now be listed in order that the quantity of milk delivered per manufacturer is in decline, so in May it was 4 247 kg, in June 3 893 etc., in July and August, so it just keeps getting worse and worse. It's similar with beef production. Beef is also in decline in some way about 15% compared to last year's period. Of course, pigs are in the same difficult situation, so we can count the same percentage as about 5%. So these are all data that speak of a very difficult condition. The question is, Mr. Minister, how does the government plan to help the livestock sector to preserve therefore livestock production in order to reverse this negative trend in order to preserve raw materials for the processing industry and, of course, quality food for consumers? Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19940	Thank you. Answer to the parliamentary question, Honored Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19941	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, that cattle farming, and especially dairy cattle, is currently very sensitive, i.e. exposed to very high risks, and I will agree with you that a couple of years ago has been invested terribly through capital projects, through operational programmes in livestock farming. Unfortunately, not all that was to be followed, which is that people who have invested terribly large amounts in raising farms are also provided agricultural land on which to produce food for their breeding herds. I will also point out, and it is clear to you that the actual payment of the part co-financed by the state has also invested considerable funds through these projects come at a charge this year, 320 million kuna means the current year 150 million, 2014. 70 and a little bit of a million-dollar system that's charged with budgets in advance. But we don't want to talk about it. It's standing here even though I'm going to fix you. In the first 5 months of this year, positive trends were, or nearly 6%, higher production compared to the same period last year. When you talk about the number of manufacturers of 95 were in 2003 delivering milk reference laboratory to Križevci, this year there were 12 thousand. So the trend in the decrease in the number of producers is as such and here but the quantity of milk produced is more than 626 million litres of milk production in the last year. And this year, in the first five months, we had an increase. Due to the drought, due to the reduction in part of the livestock stock, due to the problem, over-indebted debt above all the credit burden on our producers comes to a decline and we are trying to stop this drop through a series of measures we have offered. We have said very well and responsibly that those producers who have loans under operational programmes in HBOR have opened up the possibility of a line of reprogrammes of these loans starting from 12 to 24 months. We are also in cooperation with HBOR, HAMAG Invest and with business banks. Our producers are very pleased with the business banks in finding the model that part of the unfavourable loans they have for the purchase of machinery, throats and other for their farms are reprogrammed through the credit line we provided in HBOR, we are talking about conditions which are significantly more favourable for interest than for commercial banks within 10 years with a start of 2 years. We're also planning a budget for next year. Within the mass of resources that we have provided for support provided for sensitive sectors, and here we are talking about dairy cattle and breast-feeding cows and the bovine cattle that you mentioned, we have provided additional redistribution of 167 million to help the livestock sector which is really exposed to risks. What we must do together with the profession, with science with all institutions to raise productivity, we must produce and have enough land to produce livestock. The analysis also showed that our milkers, given the number of throats they have that should satisfy by... their throats are missing about 120 thousand hectares of agricultural land. That's why there's a new Agricultural Land Act, a land reform that will allow for such... And that's agricultural land. [[The speaker is not understood because of the quick speech.]] Another series of measures is any one we presented as such and our manufacturers at meetings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] This year in 2012 although it should have been paid only in 2013 the fee from the national reserve 50 limes per litre of milk we paid 5 wars in advance means in some way... with our producers. [[The speaker is not understood because of the quick speech.]] be taken into account in order to allow for more favourable imports of cereals or livestock for the needs of the manufacturer. [[The speaker is not understood because of the quick speech.]] So a whole series of palettes of measures that will help Croatian livestock, but above all structural reforms need much more connections with institutions and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19942	Thank you, too. Comment Commissioner Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19943	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said our producers were satisfied. Well, as they are pleased, I understood in that part that how pleased they were when they were protesting, the milkmen warned in wintertime and kept warning you. But your answer is in some way consistent with your actions and efforts to address this agricultural problem. incendiary. You say your situation is farmers of cattle is difficult but we can't help you. Your barns are empty they'll be empty and watch what happens now, and the empty barn you know what it means in the country and when it's empty they'll still get property tax that poor peasant. So what's he gonna pay for it from, Mr. Minister? So our farmer asks you for a solution, he asks for a concrete answer to say whether our dairy production threatens imported milk powder and whether our dairy production is just a mixture of that milk, he asks you to fix it. It's not agriculture you know well, Mr. Minister, come with a black limo in the summer to pat him down and say you see you're gonna die now, my dear farmer and I'm the one who's gonna nail the last nail in your coffin. You understand, that's the problem. So agricultural production is very difficult and responsible and our farmers are proud and I believe that they do not approve of these measures that you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19944	Thank you very much. Now two notices. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament inform you that you have not received answers to 19 parliamentary questions, so I ask the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give answers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the next 8 days. Second notice. The chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, schedules a session of the Committee on Legislatives as soon as we give a break at the Chamber Ivan Mažuranić no. 84. And in the end, we've exhausted parliamentary issues with this, so I'm currently concluding this morning, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19949	My colleagues and colleagues, we'll continue our work. We'll discuss one. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 189; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There's no need for that either. I'm opening a debate. We've only got one speaker reported. This is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The IPA pre-accession programme is the second generation of pre-accession assistance programmes approved in the Republic of Croatia and replacing CARDS, PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD and continuing project financing in the areas covered by these programmes but also opening up new areas in the management of human potential, regional competitiveness with a view to better preparing for the use of European Union funds. The IPA asset management permit of Croatia was granted to the institutions at the end of 2008 for the first four components, and at the end of 2009 for the fifth component. This agreement which is subject to ratification relates to IPA component 2 cross-border cooperation. The cross-border cooperation component plays an important role in the regional development of Croatia with the aim of promoting the creation of cross-border networks and partnerships and the development of common cross-border action to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment and strengthen social cohesion. The additional objective of the programme is to build units of local and regional self-government to manage EU programmes, and to prepare to manage future cross-border cooperation programmes. The total amount of funds granted to the Republic of Croatia and intended for projects of cross-border cooperation in the period 2007-2011 is 73m euros. IPA component 2 users are units of local and regional (regional) self-government, public institutions,... funds, institutions established by the state and units of local and regional self-government in the field of research and development, education, health care, nature protection, cultural heritage, tourism, private institutions established by companies in order to meet the need for general interest if they work on a non-profit basis, NGOs, economic chambers, agricultural, crafts and industrial clusters etc. Under IPA component 2 the Republic of Croatia participates in cross-border programmes of the Member States of the European Union. Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme, IPA cross-border programme Hungary-Croatia and IPA cross-border programme Slovenia-Croatia, cross-border programmes with non-EU countries IPA cross-border programme Croatia-Serbia, IPA cross-border programme Croatia-BiH and IPA cross-border programme Croatia-Montenegro, as well as transnational programmes for JI Europe and the Mediterranean. A ratification agreement concerns a cross-border programme with non-member countries, so with BiH. The cross-border programme with BiH has three priorities, the first creation of a common economic space, the joint development of tourism offer and the promotion of entrepreneurship and improved quality of life and social integration, the protection of nature and the environment, and the improvement of the availability of Union services in the border area such as the social cohesion of local communities and improving cross-border relations and as a third priority technical assistance. The annual EU allocation for this programme is 1m euros and will be divided according to top priorities, means that the first two will receive 450,000 euros, and the third priority will receive 100,000 euros. These are not particularly high amounts, but of course it is a pre-accession programme whose importance is most reflected in the acquisition of knowledge and experience, that the exercise is actually being prepared during which the amount will be much more productive and much greater to achieve other goals such as the development of employment, etc. What is also important in pre-accession programmes is that they, or their exploitation, are an indicator of the country's readiness for membership, show how much the country or its institutions are trained, trained to say so for the acceptance and exploitation of much more significant amounts. We can say that in the present period, here I can also say as a member of the former government that this use was at really high levels, some say that we have had the best use of all candidate countries, this especially in a situation where no country before us, and that is that we have implemented and prepared CARDS, PHARE and IPA programs of course according to different rules and different procedures. Special institutions of the ZDURH were established and established,... according to the ministries, procedures established, capacities produced, knowledge acquired, accredited enforcement bodies and we welcomed the end of the negotiations prepared. If that were not the case, negotiations would not have been brought to an end, or they would not have been completed, and neither would the use of these funds be great. I'll just give some indicators around these used funds. For example, the CARDS 2003 programme was used and agreed, so the percentage of the agreement was 97.68%, CARDS 2004 94.61%, PHARE 2005 86.97%, PHARE 2006 84.79%, as well as projects such as the renewal of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway railway line, the programme for water and waste water, the Regional Waste Management Centre Bikarac in Sibenik-Knin County, prepares project lists in the transport sector and technical assistance to the central financing unit, contracting and national ISPA coordinator. I will especially highlight the project that I said before, which was the reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway which was completed and which was located in the vault that I was leading too, to say so, and which was the biggest, and that was the most important that it was the largest EU project ever implemented in Croatia. As far as the IPA programme is concerned, it was agreed in 2007. 92.22%, 2008. 94.67%, 2009. 25.1% and 2010. 9.62%. The last time we've been witnessing, I'm going to say the same thing in this debate, that and we know how suddenly the percentage of IPA funds has increased, I think we should commend it clearly but we should say that the result of the use of these funds cannot come overnight and cannot be made in a month or two. There must be certainly one long work, one systematic work and one very demanding and long-term and complex procedure so that these programmes can be implemented. All the deals that have now occurred in 2012, should also be said that they are the result of work, systematic work in 2010 and 2011, thus resulting from the long-term preparation of complex documentation, especially when it comes to projects in railways and public procurement procedures that started in 2011 and completed in 2012. That's how it is, for example. The deadline for the IPA 2008 was 5.6.2. and 94.67% of the total allocations were agreed, and complete documentation was prepared for the negotiation of projects and all procedures were completed during 2011. It will be interesting to see what will be the percentage of the agreed IPA 2010 programmes, which are due to be negotiated in 7.4.2013 as this will be one measurable result of the work of the current government. I hope the percentage will be as high as our mandate. If that happens then this government will have reasons and arguments to say that in this part the use of these funds is successful. Furthermore, the operational transport programme in which 50% of the total allocations relate to 2 infrastructure projects on 31 December 2011 was agreed on 15.86%. At the same time, preparatory documentation has been completed, all controls by the European Commission and public procurement procedures have been launched for the negotiation of projects of which, when one contract is immediately increased by 25 per cent and more. The Okucani railway project – Novska worth 25.7m euros was agreed on on 11.5.2012, with an estimate of the bid starting on 3.11.2011. The contract was supposed to be signed by March and not just in May as it happened. And the team certainly slowed it down a little bit. The signing of this contract and the contract that went parallel to the supervision of works worth 1.6m euros signed in 15.5.2012 immediately rose from 15.86% to 40.33%. Thanks to the negotiation of this project, the total use of IPA rose to 39.4% to 49.6%. In 2011, it was also launched to arrange 3 projects for the preparation of technical documentation for infrastructure projects in railways and the dynamics of their bargaining was quite slow compared to what was the target in 2012. In the operational programme, the percentage of the agreed funds increased by 54.42% only to 55.88% and in 8 months of work because it was to be offered, to prepare additional projects in water and the environment, which has not been done so far. This programme made savings through public procurement procedures during 2011. Of the entire one-year allocation, so 16.48m euros and by the end of this year will be seen the success of this government through whether it has managed to complete additional projects... at the end of 2012, for saving which was known early enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the end of 2011, savings were created and there was no time for additional projects to be implemented, and such savings led to a reduction of the allocated funds in 2011 by 5.2m euros. We hope that, because of the same funding, it will not be reduced at the end of 2012, because the government has a year to do something, or to do additional projects. Anyone who deals with funds knows that the bargaining doesn't fall from the sky, because I said before, you can't do it in a month. The projects should be prepared. And that's why, before any self-thanks, we really suggest that this government make an effort, do everything that needs to be done and welcome its first results to be seen in 2013 and 2014 and that we will, and I hope there will be, because it would be bad if they were not there. If we do, we will be happy to follow and admit it as a constructive and active opposition. Finally, it is clear that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Cross-border Cooperation Programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19951	I thank you, too. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19952	We are going to vote at the debated agenda points. Final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia - Bosnia and Herzegovina under the component cross-border cooperation of the IPA Programme for 2011, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 189. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I lay down unanimously with 126 votes, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia - Bosnia and Herzegovina under the component cross-border cooperation of the IPA Programme for 2011 in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19953	We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Serbia cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 188. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative, Zvonko Milas, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, when it comes to such bill proposals, since it provides the right basis for the grant of funds for projects financed by the IPA programme, it is not a key question whether the Parliament will support such a programme or not, but how to better define it, or how to bring it forward as quickly as possible. As far as the first sentence is concerned, we definitely need to express the skills of negotiating and formulating by competent institutions, of course we are referring in particular to the Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. And for this second part, we showed it today when we voted on the agenda, so we're all about this law going into emergency procedure and bringing it in as soon as possible. Otherwise, disabling or any slowing would simply prevent the implementation of selected projects. So, the call that was issued just over a year ago. But in this context, I would like to mention that the European Commission signed this Agreement in April so that only 5 months after that, so in September this year it would also be signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The text states that changes and additions cannot be introduced at this stage of international contracts, so that urgency etc. is important. So in the context of this, I appeal to the Government to provide some way that the higher the speed of signing so that this House, when these laws come, might also give some of its suggestions and suggestions that could be considered, not to come before the end of the matter. It is clear at first sight that it is a specific form of legal act. Namely, here in this proposal for a law containing an Agreement on the financing of cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Serbia under the cross-border cooperation component for 2011 it is an integral part and we have three additions. So we have a programme of cross-border cooperation for Croatia-Serbia for 2010-2011, a framework agreement between the Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 27 August 2007 and an additional condition. In itself, this content is very demanding. So we have in one form four acts and one who has no experience and who has not met with management, so, that is, working with European funds is very difficult for him to cope with, so I think, if anything else, that at least the text of the law or the bill could be updated. Let's say today in 2012, we're talking about a law that is relevant for the location of financial resources for 2011, and we're talking about plans for 2010. For example, page 20 reads that the call will be published in 2010. On page 24, the delegation of the Commission's powers to the Regional Development Agency is expected in 2010, etc., etc. So it's about the activities that should have been done fat already, and we read about them in this text as something that's yet to happen. There are other examples of this kind and it would be good to update the text in appropriate form. The relative modesty of the funds allocated to projects financed under this programme shall be observed. It is therefore with interest on the ground and the willingness of applicants, therefore, to be minor. According to some knowledge in cross-border cooperation, it is generally able to finance slightly less, below 15% of the proposed projects, and there are much more quality projects. So it would be good for the most institutions to devote themselves in some way to lobbying, so providing a little more funds for cross-border co-operation for the Croatian side. Since Croatia has shown good experience, it is therefore very positive in cross-border programmes. It is visible from a high level of bargaining and very high interest on the ground. In this case, there is talk of financial assistance in the free funds of 800 000 euros for the Republic of Serbia, or a million euros for the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand why there was an imbalance in the allocations. It is a cross-border area, so it is a very, very sensitive area, and if there has already been some difference and I think it is directed whether these funds are equal or not I do not understand why this was not in favour of Croatia? Because Croatia is still a candidate who is on its way into the EU while Serbia is still far from it. So again, I ask the institutions to in some way try to make sure that these funds are equal, but not in a way that reduces Serbia rather than increase those funds. This programme is especially important for Slavonia and Baranja since they are acceptable areas from which projects can be financed, so Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavonska and Brod-Posavina so to speak. Forced areas and this programme therefore offers a good analysis of the programme area as part of the law. In short, to paraphrase the conclusion, so this area is rich in natural cultural resources, they provide good opportunities to promote the image of the area as a very valuable tourist center. But significant parts of the programme area are economically poor according to national standards, and the regional economy is highly dependent on agriculture, industry, and raw materials processing, machine production. So, about everything that is not competitive, or what is in the restructuring process. The projects themselves are moving somewhere between, in financial terms, between 50 and 300 000 euros and it is clear that one such project cannot solve or fix images, or solve the problem of the region. But every project financed means a lot to whoever it's approved. And perhaps, when we see that individual projects cannot be solved, I simply cannot encourage what is the essence, so what is the priority of this programme, therefore economic development of environmental protection, perhaps these programmes should be looked at in another dimension. So maybe we should look at them cumulatively. To make one joint analysis which they all individually bring, that is, what changes they bring in one common picture are the areas of Slavonia and Baranja. It is known that Croatia is therefore a beneficiary of IPA pre-accession assistance instruments for which an adequate institutional framework for the mandate of the previous Government has already been established. And it is clear that pre-accession policy has become one of the most important policies in the EU, but it seems that the principles of pre-accession policy, particularly its component, relating to cross-border co-operation and the observation of candidate countries through some prism, can also be frustrating as it is unfortunately shown in this bill where we have the Western Balkans written in a large initial letter Z. As if it were an organised whole of the united countries. It is clear to us that we of neighbouring countries cannot and should not flee, but on the other hand, it must be clear to us that we need to take care of our own interests. So we can offer neighbouring countries experience, but we must use it in a way that strengthens our political influence in the region. We can offer them a brand, so our people who have a lot of experience in implementing and implementing projects for adequate compensation that will benefit Croatia, people, of course and neighbours, and in this sense I think that the central level in addition to the financial assistance that needs to be offered by a specific type of assistance to the advice, in ways that will lead to better and faster implementation of projects to all under the same conditions, so that it is what is the point of cohesion policy, so evenly in terms of developmental terms. Cross-border cooperation is actually a preparation for so-called. territorial policy and structural funds, therefore, which is an integrally wider cohesion policy, so to join the funds, so to the social fund, the Regional Development Fund and cohesion. And it is very important how relevant this policy and territorial co-operation will be for regional and local self-government units at the time we become a member of the EU. It seems that most of the central regional, local budgets intended to invest development projects will have to be spent as an amount co-financed by projects originally funded from structural funds. What's causing them? So simply that there will be no more regional development policies, apart from structural funds, so separate from the EU in other words, we lose one kind of independence. And I think that's exactly why what I said at the beginning is very important that we get this kind of bill as soon as possible so that the representative body can consider it, discuss it so that the public can be introduced to everyone and find the best way to make them real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19955	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19956	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU Commission on a cross-border cooperation programme for Croatia-Serbia under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2011, with the Final Bill proposal, on which Mr Milas spoke a little sooner and for the HDSB club it is clear that it is acceptable but with certain remarks to be made. In fact, it is true that as there was an agreement in connection with the construction of cultural goods, the religious facilities that we did last year also seemed to support in summer, the amount of money for these programmes for the Republic of Serbia was significantly higher than for the Republic of Serbia. And now here we have a starting difference I would say for the Republic of Serbia the amount of 800,000 euros is 800 thousand euros, for the Republic of Serbia a million euros. NUC 3 regions or would say counties covered as a programme area of cross-border cooperation related to IPA projects are Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijem County, and the Brod-Posavina and Požeko-Slavon County are joined. While from the Vojvodina I'd say the sides are north-back, west-back and south-back area, but also in the winter and here we've also been encouraged to enter this associated area. However, it does not matter now which areas are covered by the possibility of cross-border cooperation. What can be seen is that, as in the draft law regarding IPA programmes with BiH, there is also the possibility of projects to protect the environment. On page 56, therefore, the ecological pollution of certain important sites (large settlements and industrial centres) is reported. We had just proposed today a break after which to discuss exactly the air pollution in Slavonski Brod and beyond in this area that I was now talking about in the area of these counties that I was talking about. When comparing areas from one side to the other to say Danube, then it is seen that in the far east of Vukovar-Srijem County, which bounces at the unemployment rate compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia, it is said that 18% depends on when the material is written and the Vukovar-Srijem County is close to 28% unemployment rate, right next to Vukovar-Srijem County is both Brod-Posavina and Požega-Slavonska. So these are really the counties that are involved and that should be included in these projects and programmes that are really on the tail or on the bottom of a scale of Croatian counties according to all economic indicators. It should also be known and I do not know whether to insist now or when it has not already been resolved over the past 20 years, and perhaps leave when the Republic of Croatia enters the EU 1.7 in this particular area I would say the dispute between the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Secretary of State, you all know that we do not have the control of the Croatian authorities over the carpentry government, that we do not have control over the so-called so-called so-called government. Kenji, these are the areas of Bačka cadastarski and grantovno written on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and these are large areas of land, so this is how I would say these projects and programmes that will skip these problems is a question of when they will come up. That's what they are. bilateral problems between Serbia and Croatia, but it is not clear to me that this has not been resolved in the past 20 years, regardless of the existence of the Sava, the Danube Commission, or I don't know what they're calling it, the problem doesn't move from a dead end. Here, under the term demographics, national minorities are also mentioned a great demographic poverty both to say regions of all the provinces and areas on both sides of the Danube, but they mention possible projects on the issue of national minorities. In the Republic of Croatia, according to the highest world standards, the problem of national minorities has been solved, with certain excesses here and there, but not as a general phenomenon, while in the Republic of Serbia they still share Croatians, Shokce, Bunjevce and more. Research has been carried out on this issue, unfortunately the official policy of the Republic of Serbia on this matter, so to say the shares, the division of the Croatian national being remains on its own. So that's a tie. Now there are projects here and I'm going to say in that sense, so I'm just wondering how they're going to and where they're going to drag these projects into that area. On the highway about the 10th pan-European railway corridor we also know well that the former state of SFRY, therefore, built a two-way or two-way line to Novska from Belgrade, clearly with the bounds drawn... And from Novska to Long Village, only one track. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here these days we're talking about a railroad recovery and improvement, and we'll be able to drive as much as 160 an hour, so I guess about 10, 15 from Novska to Okucani-Novska jell, and then back to 45, 50 kilometers later. It is true that the Tovarnik-Vinkovci railway was renovated also by means, so also on this 10th corridor, but until it is two-way, or two-way line Tovarnik-Zagreb, I will not tell the spine of that 10th pan-European railway corridor. Not only, therefore, from Long Sela as of now, to Novska, and from Novska to Tovarnik there are two colossals. That's not what you're thinking. He says he has a second track through Jasenovac, Sunja and Sisak. So go and see what that track looks like through Jasenovac, Sunja and Sisko. However, given that there is a need to cooperate with the neighbours and France and Germany, they have been at war, and they are cooperating, and that the funds are what they are, one million, one 800 thousand euros, and that now, given the level of the county, the county with these overseas municipalities or I will not tell the regions, I do not know exactly what they are called or with cuts, so that they are working together to make a difference again, but they have made projects that are as significant for both countries, i.e. the province of Vojvodina and the county in eastern Croatia, i.e. Slavonia, Srijema and Baranja, so neither the HDSB club will be against the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19957	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19958	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia - Serbia in the framework of component cross-border cooperation of the IPA Programme for 2011, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 188. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes... And unanimously? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I find that, unanimously with 124 votes, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia - Serbia within the framework of the IPA Programme's 2011 component cross-border cooperation in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19959	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. That's - 3. Final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia-Montenegro's cross-border cooperation programme under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 190 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Environment and Nature, and the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Proposal for a law confirming a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a cross-border cooperation programme for Croatia and Montenegro under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011 will certainly support the Croatian Democratic Community club. The aim of the IPA cross-border programme Croatia and Montenegro is to improve the quality of life in the cross-border area between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Montenegro. The programme was drawn up by joint efforts by both participating countries on the principle of partnership and by the Commission of the European Communities in... In 2007. and the programme itself supports the second component of IPA in a way that for each year since 2007, up to, here by 2012, IPA grants a total of 900000 euros from which 400,000 euros are intended for programmes and projects in the Republic of Croatia, and 500000 euros for programmes in the Republic of Montenegro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that, in addition to the funds provided in the IPA programme, part of the funds should be provided by the users of the programme in the programme area. This programme identifies the cross-border area between Croatia and Montenegro as a region for high quality life as one of the most successful European tourist destinations because of its unique and preserved natural resources, cultural and historical heritage and high quality of services. It is about Dubrovnik-Neretva County bordering Montenegro on land and at sea, and on the other hand with coastal municipalities in Montenegro such as Herceg Novi, Kotor, Tivat, Budva, Bar and Ulcinj, and Cetinje as a municipality not located on the coast other than Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the Republic of Croatia as an associated border, i.e. The neighbouring area is also Split-Dalmatia County and three other municipalities in Montenegro. This is a world-renowned tourist destination. Namely, there are two cities under the protection of UNESCO, which is Dubrovnik and Kotor, and three national parks. So, in Croatia National Park Mljet, and in Montenegro Skadar Lake and Lovčen. The area also has a natural potential for agricultural development, in particular the development of organic agriculture to deal with mariculture and the production of high quality food. In order to further develop this area, and which the programme itself provides, cooperation between local and regional stakeholders in the border area needs to be enhanced, cross-border dialogue, institutional relations between local administrations, and local and regional authorities are able to implement and manage cross-border projects. The fundamental challenges in this area, as in other programmes mentioned earlier, are to ensure that economic development is balanced between environmental protection and sustainable use of natural resources. It is also one of the objectives to create recognizable tourism products based on natural and cultural goods of the programme area and restore social ties in the cross-border area. Furthermore, this implementation of projects supporting this programme aims to increase and improve cooperation between institutions, citizens and civil society organisations in areas such as tourism, education, culture and the like. All of the above objectives shall be implemented through two priorities within which implementing measures are also envisaged. The first priority is to create favourable environmental and socioeconomic conditions in the programme area by improving cooperation in the common selected sectors and good neighbourly relations in acceptable areas. The second priority is technical assistance through the establishment and operation of the Joint Technical Secretariat of the Programme. However, when we talk about the weaknesses of this area, it is necessary to highlight those weaknesses that really prevent the quality of the development of this area, above all, poor road infrastructure and island isolation in this area. On the other hand, the lack of adequate treatment of waste water and sewerage, the lack of disposal of solid waste and recycling processes, water supply and waste water treatment problems especially during the summer season, the lack of joint programmes and procedures to protect against dangerous goods in transport through the region. If we are aware of these weaknesses that need to be highlighted in this space then certainly we should invite the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue the activities on the construction of the County Waste Management Centre in the area as soon as possible... The government has suspended the distances for eight months, and a prerequisite is necessary not only for the development of this space but also for the construction of the County Waste Management Centre is one of the criteria and obligations that we have made in Chapter 27. – Environment where it is necessary in both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Montenegro to close all illegal and wild dumps, including those legal dumps where waste is delayed and waste management is established through the County Waste Management Centre in the Republic of Croatia in Dubrovnik-Neretva County was a project... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We expect the government to pursue this trail and continue with all the activities necessary for the implementation and implementation of this programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the resources we will be able to use in this program will not be strong enough. Specific challenges for this area are increased environmental risks due to new road and sea corridors, the impact of pollution from the Mediterranean Sea and certainly further salinisation of rivers that threaten their sustainability. In this context, it is certainly necessary to call on the Government to negotiate on the implementation of the project of the upper horizons if the Government really intends to go further with them, is to include representatives of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County because we are aware that the realisation of the upper horizons will allow the Salinisation of the Neretva River in its lower course, and it is necessary, in view of any continuation of the realization of this project, to produce a quality study which should clearly provide an answer whether the realization of the above horizons will really affect the further salinisation of Neretva in its course. As one of the holders of the opportunities for the development of this area, the programme recognises the construction, completion of the construction of corridor 5C, so from Budapest to Ploč and the development of the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor, which should allow for basic communication between Southeast and Central Europe and which would bring the southwest and southeast of Europe together. This trail was prepared and sent to the Assembly a resolution on the principles of transport integration of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County as a function of establishing constitutional and legal equality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this resolution, we show the need to continue the project to connect Croatia's southernmost to the country of origin, i.e. with a quick completion of the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge. Of course, the scope of this programme is limited by the availability of financial resources and some of the issues identified as relevant to the development of the border area cannot be addressed through the measures and priorities financed by this programme, but part of these projects can certainly be financed in part through this programme. We can say that through the actions and priorities of this programme, the objective of making local and regional stakeholders as ready as possible to manage future programmes of cross-border cooperation as possible under the territorial cooperation of the Structural Funds. And finally, I would like to highlight several successful projects that have been implemented in this or that are being implemented in this programme, which are running in the space of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The first project is the traditional olive production project as part of cross-border cooperation, which was owned by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village with partners of the Association of Olives of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the Regional Development Agency DUNEA in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The second project is a joint promotion and an increase in the level of security in nautical tourism in Dubrovnik-Neretva County on the Montenegrin coast whose holder of the design of the programme was the Croatian Hydrographic Institute with the partner of the University of Dubrovnik. The third project that was implemented on Lastovo is the project Nature for the Future, which was owned by the Regional Development Agency DUNEA with partner Public Institute for the Management of Protected Natural Park Lastovo. The fourth project was business collaboration and skills training in the service of the development of adventurous tourism, holder of Croatia Mountain Rescue Service with partner of the Association for Nature, Environment and Sustainable Development of SUNCE. The fifth important project was the project Dubrovnik and Kotor cities and books, the holder of the City Library Dubrovnik. In total, these projects are up to a maximum of 400,000 euros, which I say are realised except for a project for cities and books with a total value of around 150 000 euros. In the first half of this year, the second call for the grant of free funds for this programme was closed and we are currently expecting the evaluation of a dozen new projects in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Therefore, the HDZ Club will recognise the importance of this programme for the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and, in part, the connected Split-Dalmatia County will support the adoption of this law, which confirms the Agreement on the financing of Croatia-Montenegro's cross-border cooperation programme for 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19961	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, state, pardon Minister and Club HDSSB will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2011. It is up to 400,000 euros, therefore limited by this figure, that is to say projects and programmes dealing with the need to restore the creation and strengthening of cross-border links with the goal of promoting good neighbourly relations and sustainable economic and social development of border areas. This legislative proposal also defines the programming areas on the Croatian side again NUTS 3 regions, i.e. the county is Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, and the neighbouring area is also Split-Dalmatia County. On the Montenegrin side, it is the municipalities, and that is to say the sea or coastal municipalities of Herceg Novi, Kotor, Tivat, Budva, Bar, Ulcinj and Cetinje, which are little said in the hinterland of these Montenegrin coastal municipalities. Neighbouring areas or associated areas are still next to them from the Montenegrin side of Niksic, Podgorica and Danilov town. Well, my colleague Bačić talked about this area, I'm talking about Dubrovnik-Neretva County really insulated for centuries, and we know how, and we know why, and why it came out then and politically to say my owning or splitting Croatian state territory, which then resulted in aggression on the Dubrovnik coast and the city of Dubrovnik in 1991, which we all know well. But there has been a war behind us for 17 years, and since there are a relatively large number of members of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro in the coastal part of Montenegro, it is good that this co-operation is once again very good between Konaval as the southernmost part, and then these coastal municipalities in Montenegro re-establish. Even the way it's proposed in this law. Not at least, but it's good that there's a certain amount of money that can help you, that cross-border cooperation. In addition to the 5C corridor that breaks out in Ploča, which starts in Kiev in Ukraine and through Budapest, Osijek and the Wednesday pass to Bosnia and Herzegovina to towards Metkovic and Ploča, the Adriatic-Ionian initiative is also something that I would say a little, not an initiative but a road that is slightly neglected, mainly from this government, and was drawn up and was an initiative to connect also countries that are either members of the NATO Pact, or are candidates for NATO's pact. Croatia has already achieved this, Greece is also a member of the NATO Pact, Albania is near or already is, so this road with the Pelješki bridge that would once and for all connect Croatian territory is very important and every government of the Republic of Croatia, and this corn should be thought and should know that this is the case. Let us hope that what was promised by our minister who was in Brussels, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs, and that it is said that Europe will participate in the Structural or Funds and help build this bridge on the mainland of Peljesac, and that this will be achieved. If he won't, we'll see, he'll show very soon and I'll say the near future. About the economy and the projects that rely on each other clearly that the geographical position and the economy of one end and the other end are very close and can co-operate. However, I am more concerned about something else that I was saying, and when I spoke about cross-border cooperation and projects with Serbia, or Vojvodina, which is that the question has not been resolved until the end, it is clear that someone would not have misunderstood me quite safely and reliably Croatian state territory, so the peninsula of Prevlaka... , but there are certain agreements that I can not say to activate like those agreements on large and small skating and that we have a problem and tight relations with Montenegro. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we are entering the European Union again without solving certain border disputes with the countries with which we are bordering, and we will need to establish the Schengen border in 2017, so man wonders where the Schengen border will be, when we know the details of this agreement that is signed and which speaks of the Cape of the Ostr and the peninsula of Prevlaka. Well then also if there is a problem with demarcation at sea such as that with Slovenia, we will lose a relatively large amount of their state territory. But it's not the subject of today's debate, so I wouldn't go further into it, but it should always be kept in mind. The HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19963	Thank you very much. No more reports. Does the proposaler's representative want final? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19964	Final proposal of the Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia – Montenegro under the component cross-border cooperation of the IPA Programme for 2011, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 190. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a cross-border cooperation programme for Croatia-Montenegro under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2011 in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19965	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is – 4. Final proposal of the Law amending the Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 187 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and you received reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? He does. Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19966	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honored parliamentary representatives and MPs. This proposal proposes to amend Article 128. The law on police, in a way that the words entered into force on 1 January 2013 are replaced by the words entered into force on 1 January 2015. The proposed amendment postpones the entry into force of the provisions of Article 21(1), (2), (3). The law on police who are entitled to a net amount of severance to a police officer who ceases his service for the purpose of obtaining the right to a disability pension because of an injury to work, a professional illness to a police officer who, in accordance with a special regulation, ceases the public service to acquire the right to an old age pension, and to a police officer who, in accordance with a special regulation, ceases the state service in order to obtain the right to early retirement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The police law is proposed to streamline costs and necessary financial savings. By implementing the provision of Article 128 of the current Police Act and of these provisions of Article 21 of that Law, they would enter into force on 1 January 2013, in a way that the need for the payment of significant financial resources would arise, for the payment of severance payments in 2013. In addition, the current way in which the compensation is calculated under Article 51 of the collective contract for civil servants and subsistence workers would be paid in severances of 3 budget bases, with corresponding contributions and levies, amounting to an average of 14 and a half thousand kuna per employee. If we look at the estimated number of workers scheduled to retire, which is a natural outflow in the Ministry of the Interior, the 500 workers gross amount for their severances would amount to 7 million 250 thousand kuna. By applying the provisions of Article 21 of the applicable law, which prescribes payment of 10 average net salaries per employee in the Republic of Croatia for the period of January and August, that is 5 thousand 408 kuna, with corresponding contributions and contributions, the average payment per employee would be 77,000 kuna. So for 500 employees, it would be necessary to provide an amount of 63 million 530 thousand kuna, which is 8 times higher than the current method of accounting. It is also prescribed to determine the amount of the severance payment could encourage a significant number of MIP employees to retire, which would trigger even greater financial commitments that the MIP does not have at the moment. I would also point out that, even in the adoption of the law, the provision was not made immediately in the budget and in the projections of the budget which were made of course, these funds were not overlooked at any time, so that the obligation was made to make the year 1.1.2013 serious amounts for severances I must say 7.5 thousand police officers in the Republic of Croatia or a third of the composition would have the rights or fulfil the conditions on a variety of basis of these three that I counted to be able to retire. Here's so much for the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19967	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. We're going to a club debate. The first is the club of Croatian Labourists and in the name of the club of counterpart Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19968	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is in accordance with the law and in accordance with Croatian practice to pass a law that will not oblige us but will oblige someone else, so this law is passed, that is what I want to say at the beginning. So the law was passed in 2011 to apply in 2013, so if someone else comes, they might get burned on that bill, and it's easier and then we bring in a change and we won't now apply the provisions of that law. We'll apply them when? In two years, it might get better. And first it's unserious and this second one is unserious. Although only a few hours ago, until word of the verdict broke, Mr. Radimir Cacic, the president of the Croatian government, Zoran Milanovic, was generously defending myself and when connected to this law, he irrevocably bought 64 new vehicles for the needs of the MUP. Everything that happens in Croatian society and especially in the police is said to be double criteria. The other day, Mr. Milanovic said by defending the purchase of the vehicle "cars are needed, spent and taken new. It's the cost of operating like electricity, like coal and I don't know what." Today at the debate, the Prime Minister said the following thing I didn't understand, so I asked some HDSSB colleagues and they didn't know how to answer me either, and that said Mr. Prime Minister that the service of a car cost 180 thousand kuna seems to me, 150 pardon, 150. Yes, over 100,000 kuna. I don't know if they're changing the engine and the hood, then it's a new car? I don't know what costs so much or can it just mean they have too expensive cars? We're a poor country and we can't have cars the way they have in Germany in Switzerland I think they might be more modest in Sweden or in Qatar. These cars may be designed for protected persons, or escorts, to protected persons. We may have too many protected persons in Croatia. As far as I can see, one of the most protected people who should be the most protected person she's walking around town and nobody's protecting her, and that's Mr. Chief of the DORH. Mr. Bajić is a peaceful pity and says he's not afraid of anyone because everyone outside is the ones who should be inside so he's not afraid of anyone. Can Croatia afford so expensive cars whose service costs so much as a middle-class car? Is that possible? That's blasphemy. They're not words of pride, the procedure is arrogant. When the prime minister said that getting a car is costing a business like electricity, gas, coal, I don't know what, I'd carry on like a cop's uniform, like their belts, like shoes, like light bulbs. I did not have the opportunity to ask the question of Minister of Health Stojić which is essentially similar to that of his last name. How come we have money for expensive cars and we don't have for the most basic needs? Police patrols don't have the money to replace light bulbs on official cars, so each gives several kunas to buy, but it's probably neither the minister nor anyone else here who's in the Assembly submits a report not to boast. Just as the Minister of Health does not deal with the catheters that, for example, need a 22-year-old young man from Slavonski Brod, it seems to me from Sisak, because he remains a result of spinal cord surgery without normal urinating function. Did you happen to have your eye on the officers who were protesting the other day? If you did, then you could have noticed the shoes coming out, that her colleagues were telling her that but you won't tell her about the cars that the Prime Minister was defending you, it's not for you, the Prime Minister needs a car whose service costs 150 thousand kuna. Have you seen the belts that look like? The socks were fucked up like they were from the time of Autro-Hungarian. And what the government saves on, it saves on workers. Who will pay real estate taxes that government members tell different stories every day. It's called modern-day test balloons, and test balloons are released when you have no attitude, when you don't have a solution, and you test how this wandering will be reacted to by the people. And the cops are, of course, the workers that are being run upside down. 500 of them every day from Zagreb travels to work say unionists from the police to cities outside Zagreb, and 500-thin police officers or more or less travels from Varazdin, Karlovac or some other cities in Zagreb. Why? Do we have any extra money? Why aren't there any reconstructions inside the police? Unions say money is being thrown at various other unnecessary costs, but they are being denied something that has been prescribed by law so far. True, the law was to come into force, so now we're going to move that deadline in two years. The finance minister says we don't have any extra money. It is absolutely certain that at this point in time, the figures presented by the police minister, Mr Ostojic, were difficult to pay off, however, would have been far convincing that he had brought in some calculation, that he had made all possible savings and that we would not boast in various areas of the other state. For example, the difference between what police officers and what they should be getting from 1.1.2013 so far, it is quite certain that most of them, as always, will do when they decide something, the Parliament is just a voting machine, to vote as it should in 2015. There are no severances, but there are, for example, all kinds of luxury in different directorates of agencies and state-owned companies where party-like companies... buy expensive cars because they could never afford it for their own money. But if the money is folk money, if the taxpayers' money comes upon privileges. The lady who sat in Plitvice Lakes Director's chair ordered an SUV worth 600, 700 000 kuna, where you will ride more joy in such an SUV. Every day we hear that workers are surpluses, they say the police have 2000-2500 surpluses but are not excess ignorants, not all of them party-like people who, when a change occurs in Parliament, puts them in charge whether they know how to do the job or not. This amendment to the law is another story about how the government treats workers, and I repeat, police officers are workers. The same time you talk about it, the savings are said, I will repeat it a hundred times, that not a single imposition can be given to banks, to large capital. It all comes down to the back of workers and, of course, it's not hard to ask who's crazy around here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19969	Thank you. It's the SDP and colleague Franco Vidovic's turn. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19970	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal to amend the law on police, i.e. amending the provision of Article 128. The law on police which is proposed to streamline costs and necessary financial savings, and in connection with the application of Article 21, The law of the police. It was clear after taking responsibility for the state's management that one point of reluctance would be the provisions of the police law adopted in March 2011, with a sea of objections. The very procedure for the adoption of such an important emergency law, an explanation on the public scene that it is a law required by the EU under Chapter 23, and the draft law itself did not bear the code of the PZE and the urgency of the procedure is not justified by the reason for compliance with the European Union in accordance with Article 160. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have already been explained by other particularly important reasons in accordance with Article 159. The rules of procedure were hasty, slightly irresponsible. The comments of the opposition at the time that there are no important newspapers in the law that would lead to the professionalisation and depolitisation of the police because the Law on the Police and other regulations so far has been resolved, that it does not say that the Police Act is one of the criteria for closing chapters 23-Justice and fundamental rights are left without any echo with the authorities at the time. A series of objections that were then made to the bill, and now we are coming back to respect these remarks as a boomerang. We leave to the new government orderly finances, there's no fear of skeletons in the closet because the closets are clean and airy, a sentence repeated as a mantua by members of the former government to hand over responsibility for the government's management. Out of these clean and airy closets, each so turns out to be a cowardly egg intended for the new government and inserted into the polling vantage point. When it comes to police law with all the other grudges that stand, so I'm looking at you, Mr. Schuker, I'm looking at you, a coward's egg is a controversial provision that we want to change today, and we want to change it because in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior there is no money in the current situation and that's the only reason. It's not right for the state to make a commitment through a law for which it had no cover at all. That's not the attitude of the state and the government we stand for. It is not right to cross the boundaries of the real and possible, to give employees the rights that cannot be realised at this time and that we are now looking for all together by prolonging the provisions. It is not appropriate for the whole law to apply from the date of adoption except for part of Article 21. The law of which is the deadline for application on 1 January 2013 and this particular part speaks of increased financial obligations of the new Government. Maybe there's an answer to why I'm looking at you. Up until now, a retired MIP employee has been paid up to 3 budget bases with corresponding contributions and contributions, representing an average gross of around 14 and a half thousand kuna per employee. And these are rights and severances for which money is provided in the budget and for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia guarantees respect. A border that won't move, sure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Instead of an average gross of 14 and a half thousand kuna of severance by an employee who retires, the newly created financial burden on the budget amounts to an average of 127,000 kuna of severance for one employee. If we know that the estimated number of employees in 2013 who qualify for retirement is around 5 hundred, it is not difficult to calculate the total financial burden resulting from severance payments. On the calculation of the severances which are in force the total weight intended for severances shall be 7 million and 250000 kuna. Article 21 is replaced by the following: The Police Act of 1 January 2013 would raise the mass to 63 million kuna and 500,000 kuna. That's eight times more than the current way of calculating, and all of that might not be a problem. The real problem arises when the coward's egg that former Minister Karamarko left to the new government, which is lying in a clean and airy closet in the meantime, becomes stammered. As many as 7 and a half thousand police officers on various grounds have the conditions to retire on 1 January 2013. And that really changes the whole picture. Let's multiply this by severance per employee resulting from the application of Article 21. The law and we'll get a sum of 952 million and 500,000 kuna. That amount is already a problem. And this raises the question of the political responsibility of the former minister and his team, because how to experience these facts. Like we didn't know? I believe you knew about everything I said here, you should have known. A well-intentioned interpretation would have been if you'd bought an electoral body, but that's politically irresponsible, too. A number of other reasons that come to mind, but none of them really hold water for me, except that it was deliberately left as a hot issue that the new government needs to solve, and clearly, both the government and the minister record negative points. Because you were aware there was no money when you proposed a law like this. That's why there's been a prolonging. And let me remind you, it was in March 2011. Croatia has already been in a crisis and recession together with the entire environment, and your move can only be interpreted as a politically irresponsible adventure and an attempt to save a ship that has already been well-versed. But what bothers you is that you didn't deal with us, your political opponents and your rivals, you've already played with the entire police staff corps. I am not saying that police officers did not deserve severance, I am not saying that police officers are not in constant danger, I am not saying that they do not suffer the sun, rain, snow, heat and cold by protecting all Croatian citizens, their property and guests of all of us. I'm not saying that they and their families don't deserve a better relationship with the whole community, better wages, bigger severances, but I do and I'm sorry that I have to say this money Croatia doesn't have. She's never had one before, and I think we need to be realistic and say, given the situation, the question of whether or not we're going to have it anytime soon. At a time when people working in the private sector are left out of work, when the crisis is destroying the tissue of entrepreneurship that is fragile in itself, when the government is making efforts in all fields to fix, improve the image of the Croatian economy how to raise the rights of all of us who are still dependent on the budget. I don't want to use phrases, I don't want to call for belt tightening, but I call for the understanding of all of us who live by the budget, especially us who are able to decide about ourselves and others. I want to call for solidarity and unity, and I must say that, despite everything, I am happy and happy that my wife who works in protest gets a neat salary as hard as it was for the restrictions we had to reach out to, as much as she and her colleagues and colleagues have opposed it, and yesterday, when I was preparing this topic, I also spoke to some of the acquaintances who work in the police. Their attitude is no different from my wife’s attitude and the simple language of the people is: No matter how late the wages are, it’s not great, it’s not great, but we’re pushing anyway. And in this situation, regular pay also gives great security, and I think that's what we're all aware of here. For all these reasons, I also call on my colleagues on the right to support the proposed amendments to the Law on the Police, i.e. the prolonging of the application of the article, because this would indeed be a sign of the maturity of all of us. The SDP will certainly stand by this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19971	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19972	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So apparently one technical change of law, however, one technical change of law that goes far, far deeper from the presentation of SDP representatives and opens some other stories. And as for the kittens and the skeletons in the closet, I think if anyone in this country can write closets, then I could write what I found in 2004. But when it comes to kittens and skeletons, then you should finally count them and say it's paid and that's because it's illogical to cut the budget's spending side by not knowing 3.4 billion, and then say you've still paid a lot of skeletons. There's just that guy who finished two classes of economic school knows it's just impossible. Because if you're planning regular expenses, you've been caught up with a lot of skeletons, then those expenditures have to go up. But I wouldn't deal with it. I'd rather move on to something else, which is something that we'll have to agree on politically at some point, which is that certain services in this country definitely have to be depoliticalized and professionalized. There are primarily police, Tax Administration, Customs, various inspectorates because simply Croatia does not have enough quality or educated people to change any political nomenclature to keep these people changing. And what is a key question and what has been achieved with this Police Act whether or not some of them agree, but you tried to change that law and you failed to change it because you got the pucks and the red light turned on from Brussels. If you could have changed that law, you would have changed it, but you couldn't, because you've been told to stop a little bit, so you can't exactly agree on the party circle, etc., if you've agreed to something then that's something going on. As for severance, see if you feel that given the difficult economic situation of inability to pay off, so why cancel them, reduce them. You could've cut them down. Maybe it shouldn't be 100 and so many thousand kunas, it could be 50, so once they're better economic times, they're going to increase. However, the law is not prolonged very interestingly on 1.01.2015. When you add up a few years then you will see that 2015 is also a very interesting year, and it reminds me of some law on wages in the field and others that came into force in 1.01.2004, and the elections were in the 12th month of 2003. I mean, I've been in this assembly a little while, as a minister, as a representative, and thank God I still have a good memory to do, so I always remember this kind of pearl when someone throws me a ball and I say it clearly. But this law is basically the result of everything we discussed this morning. And the result of the debate in the adoption of the budget. So when the budget was adopted, it was simply said that this budget was as unsustainable and that it would not be able to respect all the rights that were given under this or those laws. And that simply if we really want to, actually, if the ruling nomenclature wants to keep the budget within these borders, then they're going to have to start playing with some rights. And that's what's happening now. However, you knew about these rights and the moment you took over power and you allegedly had everything in your hand, on some big screen. You knew what to do. You're probably among other things, so you've got people in the MUP, so not all people are being lured into the MUP, they're all HDZ's. So they could have calculated how much these severances cost, and when you're making a budget, you should have said we're going to have to change the Police Act because we simply don't have 63 million kunas to pay the severance fees to those cops. Then it would be on the trail of a serious concern, etc. However, all because of the false consolidation of the budget. And this you will see 31.12. that this budget does not drink water for a million reasons, that all investments in education, health, etc. have been stopped. and that's the only place that's been swept up and that you're going to break both deficits and budget spending is being passed this bill. Because look, if that's the problem 63 million kuna at 116, or 117 billion how much is the spending side of the budget then it's hard for us. However, why did police not also consider a new law on the salaries of police officers where those working in the field and in difficult working conditions, who do very complex jobs and in economic crime and who have certain coefficients to be rewarded with, and those who are ordinary officials, should have paid as well as all the clerks in this country without addition. So they could have provided funds to pay off these severances. However, what we cannot agree with at the HDZ Club is that people who will retire on the basis of reduced ability, disability or something like that will not receive compensation in 2013 and 2014. They won't get it. And do you really think that with this kind of economic movement where now all economic analysts, both in Europe and in the world, say that next year, Croatia will be in a position of 1.01.2015. to provide no more than 63 million but far more money? You won't. And that's the basic delusion of this government when it comes to some kind of fiscal policy that he thinks he's going to be able to do some things at some point. Unfortunately, the economic crisis has brought us back very low with the revenue side and we must return to the expenditure side of the budget accordingly. This is nothing but eye-smoothing. It would be fairer to say gentlemen leave and you will have a severance fee of 10, 15, or 20 thousand kuna, and in some future times those who will then retire will have more severances. And we're not passing this law until 1.01.2015. I immediately tell you as a man who knows something about finances that you, not you, but you will not be in power then, but whoever is in power will not be able to pay it, because there will be no money in the budget. And if it's irresponsible politics, that's where you attacked the president of our party as former minister that he brought something irresponsible. So you have fiscal estimates, you have a budget, he's probably seen on some items the possibility of pinching, reducing expenditure and paying off the severance money. Do you really need to buy all the new cars or at these moments do what a bunch of businessmen do with leasing houses because today the Prime Minister is unfortunately in a very funny way trying to explain what it is to buy cars, it's an operational cost, and now I would like to ask him what it means in public finances operating cost. There's no operating cost, that's business costs. So if someone in the company can, they've been lying for 4 or 5 years and they see that it's bad for him, they don't need a new car, they need to talk to the Leasing Society to get that Leasing extended for another year or two, so why don't they do that in the ministries, agencies and so on? Well, in that way, maybe he'll burn the money. But the thing is, the budget is so tight that he can't bear one bit of cost anymore, let alone something else, and he has to have sex. And I'm glad that in the report on the amendments to the Police Act, there will be this kind of beautiful political pamphlet of the SDP club, but behind it all is a whole other story, and that is gentlemen that you've been playing hard at the moment when you've been making the budget, that you've had the wrong estimates, and that at this point you're not the problem in 2012, your colleagues and colleagues are the problem in 2013, because it's the rights that you can't just set aside overnight, you have to deal with those whose rights belong to you, you have to agree, you have to do it. I repeat in 2012 is behind you, your real problem is in 2013, but I repeat, my colleague Vidovic if you are already talking about some rotten, such, such eggs, about skeletons I could write novels, at the end of the day both Brussels and Washington and the IMF and the World Bank have recognised the modified deficit of what I inherited in 2004. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club won't even go crazy with this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19973	Thank you. We have a replica of our colleague Frank Vidovic on your display.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19974	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, first workers to retire get severance, and it's not the point that they won't get severances, the severances will get, it's just a matter of calculation. We're talking about calculating pensions, that's the first thing. Second. You say you found something in 2004. This is 2012. We're on the verge of 2013. Why are you putting us back in the past? The current situation in the entire country was not generated by this government, it was not generated by the people led by Croatia at the moment, who took responsibility for Croatia, generated by your party, you were the government. They didn't work out for you, I'll admit, international circumstances on the hands of the crisis and everything, but you're the ones who generated this situation. I don't know where you got the right to hold our pucks, especially you who say you've been here in this assembly for a long, long time. Well, I'm here for the first time. And I don't see what the problem is. What am I supposed to keep quiet if I'm here for the first time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19975	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19976	Well, look, colleague Vidovic, the right to speak in the assembly has been given to me by voters, not you, because you probably don't think anyone on this right and these in the back would ever speak in this House. But I didn't even call myself in 2004, I just told you in the context of what you were saying, but the truth is what you're saying is you would have left severances at some level, and tried to find the means to pay them off, but you didn't do it. However, you are constantly forgetting that you were laughing to sign your president and the full leadership of the SDP request for a referendum, and that request for a referendum is being broken today, because at that time you thought that you would collect political points, and today because the two articles in the Labour Act were not adopted, you have problems in the budget, today the question of whether Minister Ostojic will have enough money at 12 months for salaries, Minister Jovanovic, Minister Dr Ostovic, Minister Kotromanovic, and that is clear when the budget was passed, and that is only because you went to collect cheap political points and ran to sign a referendum, because then those two articles that were said to be discussed in the new situation in collective agreements, today this government would be in a far better political situation. You can't get away from that. One totally guilty political assessment. But also what you're proposing here, when you've suggested, let's keep the severance of 10 thousand kunas, 15 thousand kunas, so let's let people get something, so today, tomorrow, when you increase this amount according to it, but say that 100 thousand kunas can't be paid, and you can buy 60 or so cars is just funny. But I'm saying the argument and the number is the strongest weapon, no political pamphlets or running to sign the referendum, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19977	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19978	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to say, Mr. Schucker, of course, that the severances remain, which I read at the outset, and they remain exactly the same as you have not changed in two terms. According to this, the pensioning police officers are defined by a collective agreement, and I told you how much they amount and it belongs to police officers who retire, and now we get to what's most important. Of course, if you were me too, you'd be very happy if the police officers at the M.O.P. could get severances not only 10 but 20 or whatever you want. But at this point, we need to talk about projections. And the incorrect fact is that anyone when the law was passed... signed it in the projections of the budget said that the funds would be secured. That's not true. And that's what those who remember the passing of that law exactly mattered to say was not overlooked and left as one beautiful thing to realize. I repeat, as minister, I would be very happy to be in a situation where police officers get far more than 10 average salaries. I need to look at a few sentences that were first of all not about the right acquired, it's about something that was written that wanted to be put into law and what he wanted to be assigned to police officers. Right now we're coming up with a provision that should have been amended by the Police Act. You mentioned that the EU opposed, and it is true that their recommendation was not to change the law on police, and then it happened to us that this was another of the new things that were actually seen what had not changed. Well, among other things, the article of a law that does not exist anywhere but only in the Law on the Police, which is that police pay is also a well-received job experience and salary supplement and basic salary. This is the only law on police as defined by this provision, which is located elsewhere in regulations such as the MORH in particular, so they have five salaries this is defined in the Law of the Police, that is why a delay is required. As for the negotiations and talks that were just at the time when we talked about amending the Police Act, then we proposed and negotiated and had a public debate about how this article couldn't survive because it wasn't the means, they weren't, they weren't ever envisaged, and no one ever had an idea, and it wasn't about small amounts, it was about big money. As long as we have a relationship at the MUP that 80% go to pay, and 20% at all other costs, I would agree with my colleague Vuksic, we have a problem. And that's what we want to change that cops have better equipment, that they invest more in development and get to the point that we can spend that part of the money on quality stuff. Now we're coming to mention it may not be a topic, but I'll also mention buying a car. Of course there's no car shopping just for these reasons I'm talking about, and there's no money for that. That's why you're going to the lollipop. But I'm glad we're still talking today about something that happened five years ago in far larger quantities. Same thing. So today the same cars of the same class are far larger quantities obtained. And of course I will continue to try and fight that police officers have quality equipment, so among other things, cars, and do their job in the highest-quality cars and I defend operational licking very easily, which is less cost than repairs of the cars that you have left behind. This section of around 64 vehicles is a two-year combination since we are at the end of this year and there is this demagogue provision about not buying cars. This isn't about buying a car, it's about operating leases where you've been cutting costs for years because we don't get anything but paying for the lease. In the same way as last year when there were twice as many cars planned, we'll get 700 cars for police officers, I repeat twice as many, and in a year behind that, our plan is 100 cars unlike the 1400s we had three years ago. And we believe that in this way we will succeed in reducing the number without reducing the efficiency of police work itself. What I want to point out, which I am glad to see today is that the conscience and the desire to give people 10 salaries etc. My question is why has no one ever done it before? In eight years of office, no one bothered to make a decision, a regulation or anything, so that all those who left all these years, and about 500 each year, why didn't they get 10 salaries? And these must have been people of volunteer and defense from the beginning of the war. As far as money is concerned, I have to say that the MUP has a situation in which, of course, in these situations, measures and all the other things I'm trying to say, as strange as it sounds, that both a reduction in the number of cars and a protected person among other things, that I'm not talking about using, that I'm not talking about all the other savings that are going on, and that there are savings among other things, and in unnecessary education of people you can't hire, in situations that happened to us that the ministry just ran out of that money. Believe me, as Home Secretary, first of all, I have to worry about that basic thing, which is that cops really get their pay. What's good to hear in Parliament is the difference between monthly salary, the average monthly salary in the MUP in particular in two months 6 and 7 is 47 million kuna just because in the 6th month 297 million kuna in the 7th month 250. Why, because we respect the basic collective agreement, because we have three holidays. So much for that. Every cop costs $18,000 a year. And it's not true that we have extra cops, there's a $2500 number mentioned. This year, we received 183 police officers from the 7th generation who remained, waited two years, were not employed. By the end of this year, we'll have another 400 officers in the Border Police Department because we need to meet the conditions for Schengen and under all these conditions, of course, we need to watch, it's true, every kuna and what we have to do. It's not just a question of this, and I'm glad Mr. Shucker and I hope it's going to be your club's attitude, and I'm extremely glad that you supported what I've been saying for a long time, and that's that it's just the cops who are on the street, the ones who are really at risk of living that they have an unfavourable job experience. It's very nice to hear from you, and I hope you'll do it again in moments when we get to the realization of the same, and that there won't be any dispute over what it is that I see we have a consensus, which is that unlike the law that prescribes it right now, we're just going to agree that we need to change that. It means that under the existing law, I told you that the only pay that was defined was for the police and the only law that regulated it was the Police Act. Just a few more sentences about the budget. To repeat this about the severance, it is a valid three severances as I have pointed out 14 500 kunas, these are the money that has been defined, so at this point every police officer gets them, and among other things, the 86 that requested departure this year. About all the other rules that are mentioned here, I just have one more detail to say, which is that the question of minus and everything else has been mentioned. We started with 343 million kuna minus in this year, 150 million kuna of debt for payable printers and the rest, which means 500 million kuna less truth is that we're short for 250 million kuna for salary, but for the reason that we haven't changed the terms of the basic collective contract. I told you what it looks like, only three holidays in the 6th month. And this is what I have to say to the Ministry that all the savings that were involved were just in a way that we tried not to compromise efficiency, and I believe that when we file a police report that we would be able to agree that there was no change in that as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19979	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19980	I think it'd be enough on my side for an explanation. I've said the biggest part about this. I repeat, I would very much like to, and in 2015, we all have the funds together, it's not my money that's common money, budget and everything else, I would very much like the cops to get 10 severances, as I would like all those who retire to the same legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19981	Thank you very much, Minister. The Republic has a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19982	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the minister reiterated what he said this morning at the current morning, that the reason for amending this law is the lack of funds in the budget, funds you cannot secure. The other thing, Mr. Minister, when I was talking about getting a car I didn't even take it as something bad and something I didn't need but I just said if it's such a problem then you can talk to the Leasing House to get that Leasing extended for a year. The other thing, lying like this or something is nothing but, that's what financiers like to say so-called. the time-limiting of costs. So the cost of a car when you buy it is the cost of one year, when you buy it on the Leasing then how much you're leasing you drag it around for 4 or 5 years, and that way you have a smaller spending side of the budget. So what's crucial, and that's that without structural changes in the MUP, and I wasn't talking about the benefits of a work internship, but I was talking about pay, and I said that it's not logical that some managers have a salary supplement the same as those people who work in the field, who do very responsible and complex jobs. So that's what this is about, nothing else. The expenditure side of the budget of any budgetary user cannot be changed, cannot be reduced without structural reforms, and this government has made no structural reform and therefore you have a fiscal policy problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19983	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond? Replication response, Minister Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19984	Mr. Representative, of course you're right that it would be very simple to actually buy cars in one year at a expense in one year, but you forgot the other detail, which is that... Okay, then I'm sorry, maybe I misread it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll just say one thing, we've defined ourselves for this the same way you did five years ago. Because the assessment is correct, which is that operating leasing instead of being in one year is working for five years, the cost may be better in one year but the variations are next, which is that we don't have the costs of repairing those same cars. This is what this is about, so we haven't changed anything other than what we've significantly reduced the amount of car in the same class compared to some previous periods and thus achieved significant savings. And as for the additions to the salary of the benefits of the benefits, I'm going to repeat, the police law restricts it, it's going to have to change serious things in this part that I'm going to say repairing the situation now, which is that the benefits of the work and the additions, the correct additions to the weight of doing the job, have cops exactly thanks to the work that they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19985	Thank you. It is up to HDSSB and counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19986	Madam President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. This is about these changes to the Police Act. We see that the previous HDZ government has made a promise, expanded that promise. Now that that's up, now you're actually prolonging that same promise again. You're prolonging what exactly the predecessor noticed, prolonging it in the pre-election year, or in the 2015 election year. And that promise comes down to the fact that when police officers retire, they will have more severances than they do today. Now let me just go back to that text myself. So, it's about to be increased by 12 times, 12 times in gaining the right to a disability pension, 10 times in gaining the right to an age and 6 times in gaining the right to early retirement. This ratio, ratio of the amount or ratio of the amount of the severance is very similar in most of the system used in the Republic of Croatia. We, as one social society, either favor the most or solidarity with teams that exercise the right to so-called. disability pension. They exercise the right to a smaller amount, those who retire an old age. I think this is how it was in the previous law, and you are now continuing to be a typical deviation of our system that does not respect and acknowledge work as a category. So, I don't think there's a reason, isn't it the most valuable, and isn't for this society the greatest gain of the one who's done the whole working life? Did he do it as a railroadman or did he do it as a cop or as a soldier or as anything else? In which is a larger gain for Croatian society and a police officer who went into disability pension than a full-time police officer and went into retirement. It's a typical deviation of this society that's been dragging away from the times of communism and we as a society can't possibly clear ourselves up. In all segments, even here she is present in this bill here. We cannot accept the fact that whoever gave the most for society and who worked the longest in the community, regardless of what job he did, that he still needs to be favored. And now as far as this amount of severance is concerned, so you're assessing at this point the state doesn't have the means to pay that amount by a new law. But what remains unclear is why are you prolonging it? Why didn't you predict some of the ratios that the state could pay in the following year, that is, these ratios that are now worth it. And on what basis is your assessment of GDP growth over the next two years that GDP will grow so much and it will be possible to pay more and more severances to police officers in two years than is possible since 1.1.2013. All indicators speak of either the fall in GDP or its stagnation. Therefore, the economic power of the state will not grow over the next two years, and if it grows by the most optimistic forecasts it will practically grow for crumbs. On the other hand, we heard that almost unsustainable demagogue about regular pay. This demagogy independently of which the law and part of the public sector has been discussed is constantly coming from the ruling months, which is how it is however good it was while receiving the wages. It's like paying social aid, it's a social category. Well, it's about pay! It is no humiliation if a man receives wages. No one needs to thank someone for getting paid. Well, that's not why he has his head down because he works for the state's salary. And who should he be grateful to? And it keeps going on and on and on. When it comes to railways, let's make small wages, but thank God it's a matter of work. For cops, for soldiers, for public service, for teachers, for educators. They're small wages, but they still work. Well, I mean, what are those? On which basis they rest such a burden and what they tell us. That we should be grateful for what we have, we can do or what we do, which is a job. I think the prevailing opinion is that in the HDSSB club, we also think that Croatian police are worth, quality and very, very solid mainly when it comes to the basic and traffic police and that these people are doing their job, doing it well, and that most serve the pride of both Croatian citizens and Croatian states. So, mostly basic, traffic and special police. Of course, when it comes to certain services, such as the CRIME Police or those services dealing with economic crime within the police, that none of us can have any particular reason for contentment because we haven't noticed here, because these services have more or less blended in with those results that the entire repressive apparatus has shown and the judiciary ultimately in solving the problem of economic crime or political economic crime if you want to and so on. I have visited a number of police stations and police administrations in the Republic of Croatia, the fact is that these people work mostly hard, work hard, work on shifts and that the conditions for working premises, editing, interior, means of working in a very, very modest state in most police administrations and police stations. These are old loose chairs, some crumbling benches, unpainted walls, old tapestries, semi-decomposed cars and really the conditions of Croatian police work are not exactly at some envious level, and means of work. We will support every measure and what will go towards improving the working conditions and resources that the Croatian police have at their disposal. In this case, this coward's egg that you've got and the coward's eggs you're handing over to the HDSSB's counsel club will be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19987	Thank you very much. Three replicas to your exposure. The first is Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19988	A colleague of Đurovic's that the basic problem is that the coward's egg that has been obtained is passed on to someone or to yourself, what you have noticed, that it is in the election year. Some rights for the election year have been transferred. Is that an accident or not? But these days, Prime Minister Milanovic said he was replicating the world crisis projections that would take five years and said that he had forecasted that the crisis, or recession, would last longer before everyone else here in the parliament and in his remarks. If the recession is going to last longer then it shouldn't have been here in 2015, but it just had to be said we're ending it because we won't, we don't want to fool anyone. He's not himself, but he's not the other one. We don't want to be politicians. The police are working in poor conditions and these bad conditions are not in these 9, 10 or 11 months these bad conditions have been inherited. They inherit from year to year. And if the police have, if they're working on bad terms and they have low wages, they're absolutely certain that no one can be happy, that citizens can't be satisfied about it and that first of all they need to do to help the police, the basic cops have the conditions they deserve. But that's certainly not going to get them fooled by this prolonging in 2015, the rights that probably if we trust Mr Milanovic, come on, we'll at least believe in it for a moment won't be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19989	Thank you very much. Second replica of counterpart Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19990	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Đurovic, since I already see one and the same thing on two, three occasions, is that this authority is not ready to provide the compensation just to read to you what I said: "So far, the MIP employee who is going to retire has been paying compensation in the amount of three budget bases with corresponding contributions and donations, which amounts to an average of around 14.5 thousand kuna per employee." And these are rights and severances for which money is secured in the budget and for which the government of the Republic of Croatia guarantees respect. A border that won't move. Secondly, as far as demagogy is concerned about getting paid, I believe that you and I live in the same country, that we live surrounded by the same world to see what's going on around us. Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italy can continue a series. Getting a secure salary unlike the people who work in the private sector in the public sector makes us about 250 thousand in one way or another. I'm saying for us, we're working too. Geting a safe salary, believe me, means an immense amount of people who really live off that pay. And it's no demagogy, it's a simple reality, it's a state of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19991	counterpart Drazen Djurovic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19992	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, that's demagogy because people work and get paid. So they're not getting paid, people are doing their job fair work hours and getting paid. In the environment of the Republic of Greece, Spain and Italy are also countries of Benelux, both Sweden and France and Norway, the Federal Republic of Germany is closer to us than Spain, and it is also for more Croats than it is for vacationing in Spain. The Republic of Croatia reportedly has 280 millionaires, the Republic of Croatia has a beautiful sea, it has beautiful mountains, the Republic of Croatia has its own economic industrial potential, and in the Republic of Croatia it cannot be a privilege or an honor, or I don't know what the merit of what a man does and that's why he receives the salary. Because of course teachers have to work. Because these teachers need all of us just as much as they need that pay. Therefore, it is not always possible to bid on the fact that protest workers are doing that is a particular privilege, a fact that they do. So they can work and I can't not work. Their wages can be reduced if there is a need for a reduction, this or that type of harrases can be introduced, but someone's work cannot be converted into a form of social assistance in the public sector or treated in such a way as to treat it more and more frequently when it comes to public sector work regardless of what part of it is spoken by members of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19993	Another replica, dear colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19994	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurović, you have well noticed these demagogue flossules. I've heard from some privates when they say so I have to pay 200 people a month. Similarly now the state is acting, it gives, and these people don't actually make a living. Well, these people have earned it, no one gives it to them, that's what it's all about. Give and earn. That's what it is, sir. I don't know his name. But, Mr. Djurovic, you were also talking about equipment, clothing, clothing, the state of the police car, I don't mean these cars for guards, pardoned protected persons, protégés, as they are called, I don't know, but I'm talking about police border, basic and everyone else. Here's the government's decision since 25 September 2005, it... which was a government meeting in Slavonski Brod to build the Slavonski Brod Police Administration, and that wasn't the government's agreement, it was the government's decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it's not respected by the former HDZ government, now whether the decision still applies to this government and I don't know, because in us however the government comes, it changes the decisions of the former government. Now let's see how and under what conditions the Slavonese boat police department works in rented rooms, private, private persons, and then you'd see what it looks like, exactly what you were saying. But to return to these wages given or earned meals. I saw myself with my own eyes, and I couldn't believe the solutions of certain ministries that say that people have, so the solution that they have the right to do so, I'm not going to speak now which rights, and that the basis of that is the cash compensation and the extension that will be paid when the state has the money. Have you seen such solutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19995	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19996	Mr. Grubishic, let's open it up like this. Let's say what we really think. So I'll say what I think. Yes, Croatia needs production, Croatia needs really a producer of jobs, but let's be honest in companies up to 200 employees as many as they are normally employed by a minimumer. Is there any such parchment? There are, as a rule, all employees are employed at the minimum of their qualifications and generally these people receive additional salary on their hands, not in one, not in 10, not in 100, but in tens of thousands of Croatian companies. And let's be honest, so let's just say that the real sector salary display isn't really a realistic display of the wages that are actually paid in the real sector, because billions of kunas are paid in the real sector right now, and that money goes black and pay in the real sector is bigger than we do in accounting and as a state. And not from one, two, five, ten, but from 50, 100, 300 or 500 employees. Look at the construction sector, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19997	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19998	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. The Croatian Democratic Community and the club on whose behalf Mr. Shucker spoke clearly said it would be against this law, and I join it and will be against this law. I don't have anything to do with the police, I'm not a cop, and I'm glad I have nothing to do with the police, but I think I have something to say about this bill anyway. Ministers, six months ago, you made one statement that I will quote in full: "By choosing between Croatia's interests, which is the priority of joining the European Union, and possibly showing the guards and insisting on amending the Law on Police, we will follow the recommendation of the European Commission and implement the existing law." They said and denied after six months, today we are witnessing amendments to the Police Act. And then we've been listening for five months, and I know that now we're going to have a replica and answers that it was about personnel, human policy, etc., but the law is the law, and for me every article in the law is equally valuable. It's the law of the police. And then I say five months we've been listening to the story we're Democrats and today the prime minister said we've conducted public procurement properly, we've put people out of the system, we didn't want to politicise, we didn't want people close to SDP policy, etc. So, of course, when this European Commission has made it clear to the well-intentioned advice, do not touch that law. That's not what they're saying. That you wanted to do it, but you shouldn't have. And what we have after that. Today, indeed, in reality and the law on police is being implemented, as it says, and everything was good until about two months ago when the Minister of Finance started warning his fellow ministers at the Ministry of the Interior you overstepped, you broke the budget at the Ministry of Education, you broke through the budget in the Ministry of Health, and you gentlemen went ahead and banged the workers' rights because most of these items or most of the funds are being spent on their material rights and wages. And of course after such a warning comes this kind of law, and then it is explained that the cost in one year for 500 employees is 7 million kuna under this law, which is supposed to start to apply in 2013, even when it starts to be worth 60 million, etc., and the question of 60 million kuna is problemed. But that's not the problem. The problem is in that second section you were talking about ministers, about 7 and a half thousand people who can go after their pension rights. There's a problem for the whole country. And of course the government would be consistent, to continue its policy, which I call the policy of jumping into Croatian citizens' wallets, and for a full nine months 10, 11 how long it's been since the very constitution of the new government, and you've perfected it to perfection. There are two ways you can jump into a citizen's wallet. The first way is to take what he already has paid, some other income in a way to raise the price of food products through higher VATs to raise his electricity energy energy energy, heating, fuel to raise his taxes and you took what he has. And another way is not to give him what he follows by law. You're this way to some police officers who've earned their terms out of the hands of 100,000 kuna. It's not a small sum and of course they'll be unhappy. What's the message you're sending them? You who have done your police work neatly and have earned your terms that you can retire, you who are obliged to guard the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, the ministers of some, you who first stood on the defender of this country, you who are obliged to be available 24 hours a day, you who must be just on the spot, you who must perform the service throughout the Republic not only where you live, but are obliged to go where they send you, you gentlemen have become part of the controlled deficit and the failed economic and tax policies of this government. That's what you've become. And you can also rebel and you can come to Mark's square, you can guard yourself but that cry falls into oblivion. Because what you want based on the proposal of this law can be obtained in 2015 in the pre-election year when the government will be more merciful and the state and state in this country will be prosperity. Now I'm asking myself, and maybe to all of you, so whoever wants to answer, to understand the transparency of your explanation why there are no 60 million kunas. I ask the question and how does it have 60 or 80 million kuna for advisors in highways? for monetizing Croatian highways? How is it possible that within the same government we have 5.6 people who will advise the government on how to sell Croatian highways? For them, we can spare 60 million without a problem, but for you gentlemen, the police officers are gone for you. Now I ask the question is it because of a minister who can't fight at the Minister of Finance for his employees, for his officers, or is it really a policy that sees different or different people in different ways? Here's an example of the Croatian railways. I appreciate both Croatian railways and these people are doing a responsible job but they can get an severance fee 200 thousand kuna to leave the system. Correct me if I'm lying. There's 200 grand for them, and that's not the problem with this country. That's what you're taking credit for if I'm not wrong. So on one side we have those who can't get 100 grand because that follows them by law and that's the problem. It's a big deficit we don't have a chance and on the other hand we have 200 grand for the railroads just some of them get out of the system. That's how you explain all of your policies to all the restaurants. Gentlemen, you are not credible. And of course why can one maritime minister secure that money, and the Home Secretary can't? Here's the budget for this year is 4 billion 146 million kuna. Only for wages almost and material donations of three billion. So can we find that 50 million inside those items? We can. That's no problem, but we don't want to. And that's why cops object because these 7.5 thousand are unhappy. We have received new leaders in the competitions but at lower levels the same follows over-emphasis. We have in the system people who have higher education for which it is simply impossible to find even the right place to prepare him at a local station. What do they suggest? Let them travel to the county center where I can find him inside the service such a place. He will take almost another salary daily on travel expenses alone. I hope you don't do that, Minister, but it's part of the system. And then we come to the story of cowardly eggs. And in 2015, what if 7.5 thousand people remain until 2015 waiting for their 100,000 kuna? Then who are they going to? Some new government. Are we going to pay a billion kuna in a year without a problem? Shall we keep hoping? Gentlemen, this system must be solved in a way that guides the system must be penetrated. There's no problem with the law that's the problem with other policies. And the biggest problem is what I said that these officers were unfortunately interpreted as part of a controlled deficit and the failed economic and tax policies of this government. And there are no cowardly eggs but only a little goodwill, the minister's ability to find the best way to fight for his men, to fight for them. And not to leave them there to the administration and say that this is 15 thousand kuna, you better give 15 because there's no 120 grand because there's no one, and there's 200 in the other ministry. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u19999	Thank you, too. Now we have a whole series of replicas on this exhibit. The first came from a respected colleague, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've done a fine analysis of how everything can be pulled out of the pockets of citizens, workers, etc., we've seen it in practice and it works great because the state is going by force and then it can pull whatever it wants, it's always standing a pendrek in the background, and now it's coming out to those who wear that pendrek, who hold it. Instead of discussing here the ways in which the Ministry of the Interior will rationalise its business we are again discussing by logic the worker is the cost, these are workers at the Ministry of the Interior, the worker is the cost and we need to reduce that cost so that we give as little money as possible to it, to the place of cost. And there's a situation that the minister knows perfectly well as an expert in the system where there's a possibility of major savings. Hundreds of police officers living in Zagreb travel to Karlovac, Jastrebarsko, Dugi Selo, Varazdin, Sisak and so on. Dozens of police officers from Karlovac travel to Zagreb daily, travel expenses are paid. If only someone put those two databases on a pile where who works and who lives, maybe they'd find a way to save bigger than the one that's going to come true here. Besides, let's not talk about saving. We're talking about seductions. Who saves it when it's gone, what it saves, saves it when it's there, now it's cut, and in Europe they don't call it a bending policy, they call it a cutting policy, they call it a poverty policy, they call it a poverty policy, they call it a poverty policy. Well, let's call her that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20001	Thank you very much. Second replica, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said well that in some of the public companies that are poor, severance payments have been paid in large amounts, but I have always seen that picture on Jelačić's salary, there are trade unions, and Mr Milanović and the SDPs are running after him who will sooner sign the request not to change one or two articles of the Labour Act with which no rights have been lifted but simply giving the employer the opportunity. It is a state in one form and another, that in the emerging economic situation tries to negotiate with trade unions something that can be paid off at that time. And then when we said that 80% of the budget is something that is set out with certain rights, on this side of the Parliament it was a laugh, a laugh, etc., and today all the problems of the Republic of Croatia because you see that everyone is talking about some new taxes that the whole state is shaking off and then someone says today we're going to open a public debate. I didn't start talking about that tax either I or no one in this assembly but the minister said so, and then the Prime Minister and the logical thing is that the people who went up there who didn't know how they were gonna pay for the electricity, how they were gonna pay for the heating of some extra tax story on something that they'd gotten their whole life miserable now, and to the cops who were many in the Homeland War, they simply counted on going away in 2013 to retire, that they were going to get something. So the electricity was collected from them, and the price of gasoline went to them, and the price of food went to them, and everything. And as we behave here today, we here today with political pamphlets want to convince each other of something. If we'd all thought alike four years ago, maybe we'd all be in a better situation today. But look, you can't say that something hasn't been said or done, there are documents, there are suggestions, just unfortunately sometimes politics is ahead of reason, that's what's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20003	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20004	Thank you very much, Vice President. That's exactly what I was thinking when we jumped into their wallet in one way and took what they had, so at least we gave it back to them as one fair fair policy in another way. No, but we take them there first, and then on... we take another 100,000 kunas that a neat man has earned and we say no. Well, then there's nothing for it, so we can at some point say there's nothing left to do. It's not for teachers, it's not for teachers, it's not for healthcare professionals, it's for nothing because it's become the biggest expense. As well as an explanation of entrepreneurs, we freed you 2.5 billion kuna on a health contribution, and of these entrepreneurs to the country itself, 500, 600 million, that's the story. We're all alone, but we're all ourselves and now, and now we're all alone again. Of course, if it wasn't until the 11th month and whether it was seen that politics was a failure, that there was no 0.8% growth but a 2% drop, that it was creating certain dubiosis in the budget, that it started to yell at all those because this story wasn't from the 2nd and 3rd months, if we had it then we'd know it was some kind of plan, even 21st, it doesn't matter, it would be a plan. You learned that in the 10th month, 11th month, and that's why we now have an amendment and an addition to the law. You all expected some kind of growth that didn't happen, and I repeat again that these officers are unfortunately the victim of a controlled deficit and the poor economic and tax policies of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20005	Next replica, dear colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20006	The money actually has and you've been talking, just misaligned that money. For one, there's money for severances, there's no money for severances. For example, there's money for counselors, there's no money for workers. The SDPs didn't make a mistake when they ran to sign what you call it at Ban Jelačić Square a referendum proposal, a union request that we Labourists have collected for ourselves. It's a neoliberal rhetoric that you can sell to anyone you want. It's the only thing they did right back then, but now, unfortunately, they've turned the board around, so they gave you a hand and you said you were right. There you are, yes. ... I'm not replicating you, I'm just looking at you. [[You can't hear it.]] You're looking at me too. The redistribution is actually a key word for neoliberal capitalism, but the redistribution is also a key issue that we are talking about tonight and that law. Just now, colleagues and colleagues Vuljanic spoke earlier about that in my opening presentation I spoke there was money and in the police just give a little reorganization.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20007	Next up is a replica of a colleague of Mladen Novak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, clearly, my colleague Boris mentioned the severance on the Croatian railways, so normally I can't resist not reacting to that. The difference is that this is about severances relating to people who meet the conditions for retirement on this or that basis. It's not like that on the railroad. But you mentioned a figure of 20,000 kuna and that's true. Do you know how realistic a worker can get on Croatian railways? I'm not just talking about that physical worker maneuver, I'm not talking about the traffic guy, I'm not talking about the engineer. Let's say one reference, half of it. And the other half, or the top part, is reserved for those personnel who are politically taken care of because they were all on coefficients, because that amount can only be achieved by multiplying the years spent there with the salary that the worker made. So let's say again a special group of people who have been well rewarded so far. I wanted another piece of the replica, however, taken from me by my colleague Vuljanic. You told the Minister you wouldn't come up with that idea that people were traveling there to make a pay addition based on travel expenses. Well, that's what you do. It's done, but it's against their will. People would rather be at home somewhere closer than losing half their working hours on a trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20009	This replica is answered by a respected colleague, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20010	So I can agree in this part with you. I listed that severance and its height because for me, severance is from the state budget, severance from the state budget, and it has no different name than severance. Now, if someone's gone, we'll see it in those railroads, because they're just looking for volunteers. Because it's not easy to get out of the system regardless of the 2,000 kuna. The question is, what's gonna stay in the system? Whether we'll have fifty-year-olds out of our system, sixty-year-olds, or 30-year-olds leaving us. What kind of labor do we have left in that part that stays? And it's not easy to find today in restructuring a volunteer to leave, because people are aware that this salary that is still paid and comes is much more valuable than a one-time severance that goes away in a year, two days and needs to be found new job. But this is about something else. This is where the rights were acquired. The law was supposed to come into force. He's postponing. They say it's a coward's egg. The same government, I guess, I hope it'd be good for everyone to survive by 2015. But the way it started, I'm afraid it won't. It's a pre-election year. Then we'll give you 100,000, but then it's another time. If it is, maybe it will. Why hasn't it been postponed until 2014? Why didn't we postpone until 2020? And that's the question. Why 2015 exactly? And it's being forced like here's the answer to the replica. We could've done it by 2020, and we're all calm, at least two governments in a row on this. But that's not it. I say, it's up to the minister to sit down with the minister of finance and fight for his men. Because that's what ministers do. We know how to create a budget. It's gonna have to be fought for the money, for the 100 billion that go through the budget annually. They don't care how they spend it, through three ministries, 20, 25, through 18. It's just important to find the best way to explain why it's necessary. This is the easiest way. We cancel, we move, and we've all solved the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20011	And the last replica of a respected colleague, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20012	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't mean to really call anymore, but you just offered me. So you're saying cops are the victim. Who? Whose victim? So what we're trying to do, I'm going to tell you again, is what's real, which is possible. We don't promise anyone the villages of Podokin, we don't promise towers in the clouds like some of us did before. That's why we're discussing this today. That's a fact. What he's trying to do, so if you want the finance minister you're talking about is rationalize the costs, is rationalize everything that can be rationalized because it's simply necessary right now. You've had power for eight years. The consequences of this government of yours are we read them every day in the media and when you talk about jumping into the wallet of Croatian citizens believe nothing worse than black funds to jump into the wallet of Croatian citizens. And with that, the SDP never had anything to do with God.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20013	The replica is answered by the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20014	Look, I'm saying we can talk about this in a lot of different ways. I could now answer this last answer in a way that you are the mayor of a town where a group of citizens gathered recently and buried the city as a result of a successful policy. What's in it for us? Nothing. So they buried him. It's just a failed city. But I'm talking about being a problem. Because we've reduced this to 60 million kunas in the 100 billion budget. And then I compared it to other ministries where it can be seen that a severance of £200,000 can be paid in the same government, in this same country. Well, this isn't the budget I don't know of the Republic of Slovenia, Austria, this is the Croatian budget for all equals. And then you explain to us that this is the only way, that it's rationalization. And I quote these advisors you're giving them, they're going to be 5, 6, 10 you're going to give them 50 or 60, I see by competition maybe more than a million kunas for counseling. So do we agree that this is cost rationalization? Shall we agree on that? And now I wonder if your wife will vote for you in the next election? The one who's an educational worker. He won't. You took their two salaries in 12 months. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20015	We're continuing an individual debate. It's my dear colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20016	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. I would first say one principled remark that applies to all the laws that we are discussing and in which it is actually manifested inadequacy, and especially in this example. We generally have laws where the amendments or amendments or new laws, where there is no analysis of the existing situation, where there is no information about the debate, where there is no assessment of the expected results, where there is no indication of the views of those who are interested and who participated in this debate. Why am I saying that? Because then the whole debate is fictitious, that is, it goes with partial interests or knowledge or information about us that we are discussing. Here in this thing I got, and probably another, the union position of the Ministry of the Interior. And they simply say that the incorrect data the ministry is exporting. The following is claimed: that the amount of 127 thousand kuna which should be paid on average is incorrect because the net salary of 5400 etc. That I didn't read the numbers at 54 grand and some kuna. So this amount has been increased by over 37,000 kuna. In other words, it shouldn’t take 63 million but 18 million kunas, or 19 million kunas, to pay what is required. Whether these figures are correct or not, it should be in this material, it should be an indication of the Ministry, and on the other hand I take them as relevant information precisely because it means that those who object or whom they relate would be satisfied with that amount. On the other hand, it is argued, and the ministry has failed to analyse that it has implemented rationalisation or where it can be saved, and the union here proposes several measures that could save and reach those funds without burdening the budget. It has already been said here, and this is also said here, that there are a large number of police officers who travel to work 50, 100 or more km daily, and there is the possibility of moving them closer to the place of residence that they have already asked for, but they are not allowed. Some of them receive more than 6 thousand kunas per month for travel expenses, so that if it was reduced by half, it would save those 18 million kunas that needed to be saved. Or, on the other hand, an example is that one part of the police administrations work on shifts 12-24, 12-58 hours where both part or part of the police administrations would be organised in such a way that they would be saved monthly with this two-term work would be saved at the cost of 7 days, in other words 30% of the transport costs would be lower. Or it's also said that I don't read any further details about the equipment, about buying equipment where it's mandatory to give in bonuses to go to Vartex and take over where it's claimed that they're not adequate or that they're not adequate for most, and that people would agree to a smaller amount if they get it cash, means 30% less. So here's a second version of this story that we don't have the Ministry's position and answer to. So that's one thing. Secondly, there's a lot of talk here about cowardly eggs, but I don't understand something here if it was a coward's egg last year, so why don't you lift that provision completely and say it's not right and done. No, it's left behind, it's prolonged for pro futuro, but there's still talk of a coward's egg. These two things just don't go together. Therefore, it must be very precise in other ways, i.e. obviously it is and I don't think it's about privileges, that it's about the rights of these officers to have that severance and that there are in the existing ones based on these examples, I have no reason not to believe it, enough space to gain savings that can be paid. Now we come, in my opinion, to a key problem where the biggest mistake is our future. I will not speak in categories of work but I will speak in categories of human potential because in the information age, and I believe that at least we have heard that we live in some kind of information age, is knowledge, quality, experience, professionalism what is paid and what is worth. We systematically simply cut our chances for the future. Here we are not rewarding, and therefore we refuse future interests to start working in this system. A week ago, two of us had the opportunity to hear the announcement that at the FER, if I don't cheat on 60 electrotechnics, because there's no more room for them, I know from personal experience that there's no way in the Faculty of Philosophy that there's going to be an extension of a scientist's profession, that they're going to be able to get a job, we're witnessing that in elementary and high school, we're cutting teachers' salaries, so it's just those professions that educate people with knowledge or those professions where we need people of knowledge that we're just systematically destroying. There is no way that with, then, we can progress and any programme of Croatia's development, and that's the tragedy in which this law is contributed and this solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20017	And the last individual debate, dear colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Most of my debate is actually spoken by my predecessor from this union letter, and unfortunately, we are left in one ignorance, because in fact, in the end, we are not even sure which of these data is correct, whether the one that we have officially or the one that the trade unions are presenting, and I doubt it would be so easy to deal with the truths or half-truths. My colleague Vuksic was about to make all the views of the Croatian Labour Club, so I wouldn't add something too much, and I'm also the last speaker to cut it short. What provoked me the most in this debate is precisely these stories about cowardly eggs, plantings, non-substantiation, I definitely would not agree to that cowardly egg because in a way, that's something you knew, your representatives were there when such a law was passed, therefore the law is public, not secret, so everyone knew about it, but I'm asking myself if you knew you couldn't pay for it. And if you knew why you didn't say it in the election campaign so that people would be aware, they'd have a hard life, we'd take away what belongs to them. Normally no one can expect that in an election campaign to be announced by people we'll take from you. But it's not even correct to move the same thing because it's now their cowardly egg, and at the same time make a coward's egg different, so you serve not in the pre-election year but in the election year. I can also agree with you that in 2011 the same election year, the same story. So it remains what we said long before you're all the same. Now I can't resist, too, my colleague, Boric, mentioned on several occasions the railroad, so I don't want to mention those railways to him. That's not the point, my colleague. You said that privilege is today a public service, or a work in a public enterprise. 5, 6 days ago, I received a memo from all HZcarg workers that by the end of the year 880 people go out of the carig, and in that same memo the following year is going bankrupt with the simultaneous cancellation of all work contracts. I'm not sure that's a privilege for those people who work there, plus the conditions in which they work it's a disaster. Speaking of terms, I appeal to the ministry, to you ministers, really people who have been in these protests, I don't know if you've even looked at them, but these are really uniforms, these are uniforms that are really frankly poor, but it's the same picture and opportunity when tourists come here, and they see them, and for that reason they should do something about it. I don't know how accurate they are, if it's more like a joke, if it's true, but I've heard these officers say that sometimes they don't have any fuel in the vehicle to go out for an intervention. And if it's a joke, it's a bad joke, but if it's true then it's a real state of chaos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20019	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on this exhibit. First of all, respected colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20020	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Novak, I wasn't talking about privileges when I was talking about railroads, so I wasn't talking about privileges, I was comparing two ministers. The Minister of Maritime Affairs can find money for severance, no need to change, the Home Secretary can't find the money, we need to change the law. That's what this is about. And all the rest of this I say to me is that 60 million is not a problem, the problem is what we and the minister said in seven and a half thousand people who can leave the system. But it will not be resolved by this law either, but there will be new injustices where people, for the same working hours or for the same internship, will have some less pensions than those who may have retired five years ago, which is nothing new in this country, means that people who do 40 years of work have less pensions than those who have worked 20 years, etc., etc. It's just an attempt to take care of something because in the state of improvisation that we witness every day means that we're always shutting down something, that there's no clear goal, no clear plan, we happen to find out in the 10th month that we don't have any money, and then it responds to the laws, and that money is there, in a way that it's gone, but here we leave it to someone in the inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20021	The replica matches a colleague named Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20022	I didn't think that you thought it was a privilege to work on Croatian railways, either, but a generally safe job in state-owned companies. However, what I want to point out is that we do not have more safe jobs in state-owned companies because as far as HZ applies to both HEP and Croatian forests and Croatian waters, all this is going to be a kind of restructuring. Restructure by Croatian model always means firing workers and usually in some slightly larger numbers. What is with this second part you mentioned which you said absolutely agree but what I do not like in general about the state of Croatia is the ministers you said just before that there was no talk about firing in the MUP, but I remember your speech or the media transmitted it from September that if I am not wrong, there are 2 or 2.5 thousand extra people in the MUP. The Croatian Railways mentioned 5 thousand people in HEP I don't know 800 now speak in mind but there is psychosis, nothing is certain, you are all threatened, be happy if you have a job and you don't have to expect pay. That's what's wrong. Can't be someone grateful for getting paid for his work, so that's insane. And I absolutely agree with my colleague Djurovic. It is expected that these people who do well fat work at their jobs are grateful if they get paid at all. Well, that's something that's meant to be, you have to be paid for what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20023	We will now hear the final word of Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20024	Mr. Vice President, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20025	I apologize, excuse my colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20026	Nothing's too late. It's been a rough day. But I'll do it very briefly. You said it wasn't good what the uniforms of Croatian policemen' uniforms look like because of tourists. Maybe that's good, tourists think it might be our historical uniforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20027	I now call on Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic for the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. First I'm gonna start at the end, and that's making fun of the uniform, I hope it's not good, no, no, that's what I was gonna say. It would be good to stay away from those words about semi-decomposed cars and all the other things because, let's just say, it doesn't occur to me to refer this criticism to those who bought those uniforms, when they bought them both under conditions and why they look like that. Because I'm really going to repeat what I told you before, and that's what I'm interested in is not spending only 20% on the development of the Croatian police, we're doing our best to get the best possible conditions and that these people are just saving up what they're made of on luxuries and the different variations are right for them. But I think it's much better for me to talk about it as just before that criticism about the Crimea Police Department, and I have to get up and say on their behalf, which is that all parts of the police act in accordance with the law. He wouldn't have separated them if the basics were good, if the border was not working, if the Crimea police hadn't. Besides, I don't think anyone else and the citizens of this country needs anything but... the actions they're doing. As for the coward's egg, I didn't use that term. I'm going to do one more important thing, and that's that I'd like to be a minister who can't pay for it, but in the state budget, funds are being provided to get not 10, but 20, or I have no idea how much money. So when can we do that and why are the deadlines kind of made and placed? Then when we are able to make a reform, then when we can make a reform, then when we can make a different organisation within the police, then when you agree with me, it won't happen that collective agreements are actually an incentive to live in one place, and in another, that there's a difference that a man gets a job in Zagreb, then he better change his place of residence faster to win certain travel expenses and besides maybe he's doing another thing, and that's probably going to charge for everything the police have done. I'm sorry there's no counsel on Shucker, so he might be able to answer that if we ignore all the stories about the savings we've had, that's why 696 million kunas of traffic violations have not been charged by the police in the last three years. I'm only talking about what didn't go into obsolescence, and before that, a billion that wasn't charged. It's something that's certainly accurate, and it's been charged in the last three years of these 696 million kunas in the IRS 19. So we know what these relationships are, and then we know where they might very easily find savings and variations. About the numbers, when I inform you, then I ask you to tell you to the end, and that's the story of the untaxable part. This means what the MUP says exactly here, and then we get to the non-taxable part, so the union thinks it's a state anyway, so there's no need for the MUP to look at it that way or it's a figure like that. What is not competition in mathematics, the truth is the next thing we're talking about next year about 2013 budget projections and something that can't be done, whether someone knew or didn't know. Just before you mentioned the Law on the Police which was in January and February precisely the subject of the talks and as such sent to the EU Commission for an opinion. That's what's important. At the same time, we proposed that these provisions be removed from the different regulation of the issue of severance, which is that the Minister of Home Affairs, in accordance with the financial situation of the budget, makes a decision on the amount of severance, and at least to make it the way it is in the collective agreement. Therefore, it is not true that it was not spoken. Because when someone says someone broke out 100,000 kunas and you're not gonna tell them that you didn't talk to your finance minister that you agreed in 2003, 2004, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth or eleventh so you don't kill 100,000 kuna people. Then why didn't you calculate them and pay the people who retired back then? Therefore, there was no law, which means that there was no law, you don't think it could be provided with the means that counterpart Boris actually suggested, and that is with your system sitting down with the minister and arrangements. Therefore, for me, the budget is brought by the Croatian Parliament, not by the Secretary of Finance and by another minister who then negotiates these matters. We still have a lot of things to save, solve, do, precisely with the goals that I've seen from today's debate, which is that we all advocate that cops have the highest quality working conditions, that they have not only their own salary but also quality equipment. So in that sense, you have to understand that when choosing between interest and some rights that are not actually acquired and what is necessary for taking place because the budget that you mentioned from 4 billion and 130 thousand kuna, you forgot that it was down by 340 million kuna, and that it was in the budget projection that you should go further down. Do we have a smaller number of people, no. 183 this year, by the end of the year, another 460. As far as all the savings are concerned, I'd just mention that we had exactly what we've changed now. Remember that Commissioner Car was from Zagreb, worked in Zadar, that the Commissioner of Prša was in Osijek, is now in Zagreb, that Mr. Tulušić was the chief in Split, now in Zagreb, that two of the most positioned persons in the rank of the Secretary of State who should be covered by Vukovar and Zadar lived in Zagreb, and there is no more, and that is exactly what we are particularly looking at. And in this situation around the border police and everything else, it's not that it's going to be a cost that this ministry has just for the sake of a bad schedule, and that's how it's going to be for the schedule of border police officers entering the police at the end of this year. What I'd like to mention, and I think it's important that I explain first of all, and that's the debate that was then conducted on the Police Law, that I discuss between this point and this point. And in order not to turn out to be a minister who forgets his words exactly I said that by putting it in front of the guard towards the European Union, you have absolutely quoted it here, but you must also know that this part of the European Union has not said anything, and now you see that it is not saying anything. But it's true that because of what hasn't changed the law, we've lost extra civilian supervision of the police, no control of the lists, without all those measures that were proposed right in that law, and I believe that tomorrow we'll agree that there are still some things that should have changed there. As for the final sentences I think we should go to support all of this, I'm going to do it again, as minister, I would be very glad to be able to work this out. We have to save money, we are looking for a variant of how to close the budget for the next year, on the one hand, the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is to reduce the deficit between the other and our portfolio. And lastly, I think it's important enough to tell you, 4.5 million people in the country where I lived, which is Norway has 8500 cops. Croatia currently has 21,000, will soon have 21500. Here's just so much about numbers and something to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20029	Thank you, Minister. Now on this final word we have four lines reported. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic is the first to report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, since the end of Croatia, 4.5 million Norwegians are likely to be 8500 police officers in Croatia. It's about the end. As for the beginning, you wouldn't be Mr. Shucker's defender, but if there's something wrong in the work of the police and that could have been solved, which the French solve with the general amnesty the president takes when he's elected, it's petty traffic violations. No Croatian president, no Croatian government has reached for it, I don't know if it has constitutional powers. Minister, people will be enslaved in prisons if it takes a month for 300 kunas of pointless traffic violation to be punished. The road marking criteria in Croatia per county are completely uneven. You're driving around Croatia a lot and I'm driving and many of us are driving, and you know very well that county police administrations have classified speed limits differently, and that police waiters are always in places where there's no need. Of course, it's because people drive faster there. And that in Brod-Posavina County, Vukovar-Srijemska, Virovitica-Podravska, Požega-Slavonska, signs of limitations have been placed in quite different ways of the same type of road. Or each had its own county chief of police administration and each had its own criteria of how fast to drive in some county, and no one in the Republic of Croatia is of... restrictions, and a policeman stops where there is no reason to drive. And we have really tens of thousands of unnecessary punishments, and it just needs to be solved by some amnesty that these poor people needlessly don't drag themselves around as defendants for petty traffic violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20031	Minister Ranko Ostojic answers on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20032	Mr. Representative, first of all, I feel bad if you tried to label Croatians or citizens of the Republic of Croatia in one negative sense by comparing them with Norwegians, I don't think it's appropriate, and I can see that you've never even been to Norway, so you have no idea what it looks like there, and perhaps you could be helped by statistics on the number of crimes that are happening there but well. That's one part of the story, and that's not to say bad about... And everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, as far as the jackal is concerned, I would still ask that if you always report anything that goes against the rules. Don't speak in principle and generally, because I believe the police are doing their job exactly in a way that tries to reduce the number of traffic offenders and the deaths. I'll just tell you one thing that at this point there are 8% less deaths in traffic than there were last year. It's something you're trying to do. And thirdly, I object absolutely to your words that an amnesty should be made, because then before that should be explained why those to whom the fine has been charged, those 19 million kunas, and who has decided to release 696 million kunas of others... And don't ask us, from the police, you Parliamentarians who pass the laws so we don't enforce the laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20033	Second replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20034	Thank you very much. So I get the feeling that the minister misunderstood me when I was talking about the items of the budget and comparing it with some other items of the budget. Minister, you can't talk about rationalising all the ministers in a row while you're setting aside 60 to 80 million kuna for consultants in the monetization of the highway. It's called unbelief. And that's the fact that the state budget has. And then I saw it as the minister's ability to resolve the issue through the state budget in the way he believes it to be just. We are witnessing that there are ministries that have fought for certain energy centres, for certain agencies, etc. And I see it as a minister's ability. And that's why I said, and it's unthinkable to me that you've now answered me in part of the budget agreement that what I expect you and the finance minister will agree on budget items for this year. Well, I don't know how to do that. Well, I don't suppose Minister Linic puts everything and one item of his budget together for you, each minister individually. Well, of course, every minister submits certain requests, and then, in some ways, it's in conversation and alignment. But I'm thinking that you may not have taken up enough for your employees and that this may be the most elegant way of not solving this problem. And then I say, I say 100 billion no matter how you spend it. But those who know clearly can do it better than those who ended up without their law acquired the rights that were left without them today through the amendments and additions of this Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20035	Minister Ranko Ostojic answers this line too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20036	I don't think we got along really well then, and that's what I'm gonna do again, and that's the Parliament that brings the budget. Of course he's talking to the Minister of Finance but not the way you suggested, and that's someone to deal with. The variant is next. You have a plan, you have guidelines, and you have a budget situation in which you will just exceptionally manage to make those procedures necessary, but do not reach out to how in the second resort. Of course there was no change to the Law on Police, of course there was no reform in which we were able to reduce the number of executives, of course there was no reform in which tens of thousands of calls were removed which took place due to the unfair adoption of regulations under that law. And then of course we're in a situation where we're short on pay. And maybe it would be good if, given that Mr. Shucker is here near you and often quotes to write novels about what he experienced in 2003, maybe to answer this difference in interest, and then we could easily agree on that, to see what that amount is, and I can't agree with you in any way that 100 billion kunas don't matter. It's important, every million kuna is important if it happens in a situation where this needs to be secured, reduce the deficit and finally get to the point where we start paying back our debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20037	Third replica of the esteemed colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20038	Mr. Vice President, a few things here that the minister has said in my opinion again are partial statements and partial data. The minister said that people who used to live in one city worked in another and that it was settled. He's listed a few examples. Here from this union position it's said that there are demands, a large number of requests that are not granted. I don't dispute and I believe that's exactly what you said, but this House had to be shown how many other positions there are and whether they could be saved. And that would be an honest answer. On the other hand, if you say the laws are binding, then this law was still valid, and when you were doing the budget and according to the provisions of that law, you should have predicted everything that's being said, and not having it in mind is what we're going to change it. It's simply not respect for laws and legal provisions. Or you should have said in the beginning we're going to change that law, so that's why that item is going to be that way. So that's what the key is. Second of all, you had here as many as a thousand and a half or two thousand police officers on the strike. Why there is no conversation with them and why there is no explanation of the attitudes that are or are not accepted. And it's about people, not something else. So I think that's how you just don't act. On the other hand, this is simply with Norway and the number of officers one partial data that means nothing. How many Croatia has borders? How many officers you have to have at the border, and how many Norway has its geographical areas, because of geographical and other areas [[Intruder Stazic: Time Mr. Tudjman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20039	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20040	Here's Mr. Representative, first of all, it's been discussed with the union, of course, but there's no point in saving, and for that reason, you don't have an explanation of the savings because today is neither the law nor the conclusion of the savings, nor the money we're looking for to find. Because we'll have every reason to talk in the other part when it comes to the budget. Then let's see what we can do together to give the cops, which we're willing to do. Secondly, you really should have been absolutely right to predict but it wasn't done when the Police Act was passed. Then it's not written anywhere that it's going to cost the state budget that much and that much. At that time, it was not said that the state budget would have so many and so many million kunas. That's not what happened. I'm talking about passing the law in 2011. The proposal to amend the Police Act has just said why and explained why it can't go through. No projections have ever been scheduled before for this kind of money to pay off these severances and what's important, I'm going to beg you, Mr. Vice President, can I speak or?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20041	Go ahead. You're the only one who's talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20042	As for numbers and Norway, absolutely no partial figures. I hope you know how much the country is concerned, how big it is, etc. We have 6,000 border police officers, but so we don't compare to Norway, then here's Professor. Tudjman I'll just tell you in Austria 596 cops, 316 in Germany and 226 in Austria. You see interesting differences, twice as many. We should therefore consider that the best way to raise the quality or pay of police officers would also be in their efficiency. In the sense that there are fewer and that they are better paid. In a better organisation to work, to have better quality conditions would help us much more because then we could talk not about severances but about their salaries that would be far better and bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20043	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20044	I don't know who said before, one of my colleagues, the minister misunderstood me. I was misunderstood by the minister. Sarcasm or wit or anything you want is sometimes more critical than some mortal seriousness, and what I said was funny, and God forbid I was making fun of cops or their uniforms that even their colleagues didn't understand. I used to make fun of, if you'd like, bad policies. And bad policies came to such uniforms. So there wouldn't be an instruction if the police were laughing here. And one of the greatest delusions the minister has been repeating all along, which is that the Parliament is making a budget. The Parliament raises its hands for the budget, and we know where the budget is made. Why don't you tell me when Parliament turned the budget in any direction? I mean, that's what it is now that you're making fun of us. Now you're making fun of us for the Parliament's budget. Well, that only rises, the position raises its hands and the opposition lowers its hands. And that's it. We're like traffickers, here's when we mention the railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20045	Minister Ranko Ostojic answers on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20046	Here's Mr. Vuksic's esteemed colleague you say yourself... we may have got it all wrong, but I was going to say that it might be good to ask why cops are even protesting in uniforms? I think that's the real question, so maybe we could talk about it a little bit. But it's one of the things that's bad for me too. Because the Law of Public Gathering speaks of how it must be handled so that when you don't distinguish a cop from the others, that would be another question. What I think is much more important than this last part of yours, as you say, is the particularization I really need to ask you why you're getting paid. I think you can say that you're bringing the budget up and down and telling yourself and telling me that I'm making fun of you. I'm sorry, Mr. Vuksic. I've been sitting here and I've fought a lot of times for some things, no matter who's serving me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20047	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Notice, we start tomorrow at 9.30 minutes and we will discuss two points of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and another point of the Bill on Local Elections. We've got a lot of reports, it'll probably last all day. Get some rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-14-0.u20048	Final draft law amending the Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 187. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 85 for, 32 against and 5 abstentions, the law amending the Police Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I suggest we go to work on the established agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. Now it's on agenda 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, First Reading, CZ No. 184 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. in the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law shall apply. These are articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to submit an additional proposal? Representative of the Government Minister of Honor Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
