ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7981	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work at the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. We continue to work on the agenda, and on the agenda: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 76 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for action into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7982	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Following information on increasingly frequent pirate attacks on merchant ships in certain areas, e.g. Adenic bays, northern and western parts of the Indian Ocean and information on the efficiency of boarding armed escorts on ships, it was necessary to consider adopting appropriate amendments to Croatian legislation in accordance with the International Maritime Organisation's guidelines and recommendations. According to the International Maritime Organisation, 266 pirate attacks and armed robbery of ships and 270 attempts were registered during 2011. According to available data, no ship with armed escorts has yet to be hijacked. The armed escort is mostly boarded in ports before entering an increased risk zone and is disembarked upon departure from such a zone. It should be pointed out that this measure is only one of the measures that is more precisely the last in a series of preventive measures which, based on a risk assessment, the shipowner takes to prevent pirate attacks. In this respect, particular care should be taken of the rights of the seamen, which is also laid down by this law. Similar legal solutions have already been introduced in some EU countries such as Great Britain, Greece, Denmark and Norway, although it is outside the EU. In some countries, it is also considered whether to make appropriate regulations such as the Netherlands and Italy. The reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows, the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 29 September 2011 is that the Ministry is responsible for preparing amendments to the relevant regulations and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety and Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports which regulate those issues. This law creates a legal basis for boarding armed escorts on Croatian state-owned ships as well as a basis for the adoption of sub-legislative regulations to ensure that legal persons providing the services of boarding armed persons for security protection on commercial ships of Croatian statehood meet specific conditions in accordance with the recommendations and guidelines of the International Maritime Organisation. And within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, the minister will pass a regulation on the conditions to be met by authorised legal persons. The costs of boarding persons for armed escorts on board are fully borne by the company. The text of the final draft of the law in the section relating to the boarding of armed escorts was drawn up in consultation with prominent legal experts, the Association of Shipmen in International Navigation and the Maritime Union. Furthermore, this law stipulates that the provisions of the laws relating to ships apply also to fixed coastal facilities, but in the manner laid down by technical rules. Amendments and additions to technical rules should take into account all the specificities of fixed selected objects and their similarities and differences with respect to ports and ships. In view of the need to comply with the technical rules, this provision of the law shall enter into force from 1 January 2013. This law also lays down questions relating to identification cards for persons and vehicles carrying out a specific activity or being kept continuously or occasionally in the area of port or port operational area in such a way as to prescribe who has to have an identification card, an obligation to carry a card, a responsibility to issue an obligation, the fulfilment of general special conditions for issuing a card and the authority to verify compliance with general and specific conditions. And within three months, the minister will pass a regulation on the conditions for issuing identification cards, issue procedures, content and appearance. This law also complies with the General Administrative Procedure Act in the section relating to the Board of Appeals. It is proposed to pass this law by emergency procedure for particularly justified reasons, maintaining the competitiveness of Croatian shipowners in international navigation on the global market. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7983	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate first. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the last few years, we have witnessed an increasing number of pirate attacks on ships especially in the Gulf of Oman and Aden Bay. Pirates attack ships on strategic waterways and oil crossings from the Middle East to Asia between Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. By 2008, piracy in this area was a local problem, but at that time there is a globalisation of the problem due to the threat of international security and the EU Council approves the concept of crisis management to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1816. In mid-September 2008, the EU Council decided to set up a co-ordination centre in Brussels with the task of supporting offshore reconnaissance and protection activities carried out by Member States in the waters around Somalia. An option has been developed for a possible EU peace operation that will make available to interested members in cooperation with the transitional Federal Government of Somalia the means to prevent and combat piracy and armed robbery in Somalia's waters. The decision also defines the mandate of the EU Peace Operation, "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta", which includes the protection of ships under the flag of the World Food Programme, including the belonging of members of the operation on board ships, mainly when they sail the territorial waters of Somalia, the protection of merchant ships sailing in the area of operation, the coastal control area of Somalia, including territorial waters in which there is a risk of maritime activity, in particular transport. And taking the necessary steps, including the use of force, deterring, preventing intervention to end acts of piracy and armed robbery in the field of operation. The operation plan and the rules of action were approved by the EU Council Decision of 8 December 2008 and was also set as the date of launch of the EU peace operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta. In order to protect trade and other ships in the Gulf of Aden, EU NAVFOR Atalanta is working closely with other countries present in the region. Cooperation between the EU and NATO alliances is of paramount importance. There is also a parallel NATO operation of Ocean Shield and cooperation with bilateral partners in the field of Oman, Egypt, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, China, Japan, Malaysia, the Russian Federation and India. The European maritime forces operate in the zone south of the Red Sea, the Aden Bay and part of the Indian Ocean, including the Sejela and also the Republic of Croatia, through the decision of this Parliament of 10 April 2009 to participate with five officers in Operation Atalanta. On 23.3.2012. The EU Council confirmed the intention of extending... Operation Atalanta at the coast of Somalia is hereby extended until December 2014. [[You don't understand.]] At the same time, the Council also extended the scope of the mission so as to include Somalian coastal territory and internal waters. The Somali pirates remain a serious problem in maritime transport. It's true that military ships patrol part of the Indian Ocean where Somali pirates are less successful. It is also true that on many ships, security guards sail to protect crews, cargo, and ships from pirate attacks. But it is obviously not enough when pirates continue to seriously threaten international maritime transport. Statistically, there was a decrease in the number of pirate attacks in 2011 compared to 2010, but it was small shifts because last year the number of pirate attacks was 439, and the year before 445. There's something better about kidnapping because 45 ships with 802 sailors were hijacked last year, and a year earlier 53 ships with 1181 sailors. In order to increase the success of hijacking ships, Somali pirates do not only operate in Somalia but also threaten the Ottoman Gulf and even reach the coast of India. Since military ships patrolling part of the Indian Ocean cannot protect against pirate attacks, all ships passing through the area are asking for help from agencies offering their guards. In order to avoid legal encroachments resulting from the introduction into a country or port of a maritime security agency, some maritime security agencies are using weapons ships that are floating outside the territorial sea of a country, or international waters. There are already 12 such floating warehouses in the Gulf of Aden. In order to simplify the procedure for the employment of maritime security agencies, the Baltic International Maritime Conference, the Association of Shipmen whose fleet is 2/3 of the world's capacity and which protects the interests of its members, issued by the end of March this year... a standard contract for the employment of maritime security guards with or without weapons on or without ships of the merchant navy. [[You don't understand.]] As already more than 200 security agencies are working on the border of the law or outside it a standard contract... It will try to help solve many misunderstandings and avoid problems, both for shipowners and security agencies arising from the disorganisation of international transport caused by political disagreements between countries. [[You don't understand.]] The contract will seek to eliminate those maritime security agencies whose goal is not professionalism but solely profit. And this is a practical framework in which the Croatian government proposes these amendments to the law. A 2011 survey by the restoring ministry showed that as many as 88% of Croatian seamen pleaded for an armed escort, and 40% of respondents said they already had a vessel on foreign vessels on which an armed escort was present. Let us remind ourselves that 230 Croatian sailors have already experienced pirate attacks. At its session of 27.4.2012, the government referred to the Parliament procedure the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, which creates a legal basis for the loading of armed escorts on Croatian state-owned ships. In view of the increasing frequency of pirate attacks on merchant ships, in particular in the Gulf of Aden, northern, western part of the Indian Ocean and information on the efficiency of boarding armed escorts on ships, it was necessary to consider the adoption of appropriate amendments in Croatian legislation, and in line with the guidelines and recommendations of the international maritime organisation. According to available data, no ship with armed escorts has yet to be hijacked. Armed escorts are mostly boarded in ports before entering an increased risk zone, and are disembarked after departure from such a zone. It should be pointed out that this is also only one of the measures, more specifically the last in a series of preventive measures taken by the ship's risk assessment to prevent pirate attacks. In particular, the rights of seamen should be taken into account, which is also governed by this legislative proposal. Similar legal solutions have already been introduced in some European countries, Great Britain, Greece, Denmark or Norway, which is not an EU member, and in some countries it is being considered or in the making of an appropriate regulation, such as the Netherlands and Italy. The legislative proposal also addresses questions relating to identification cards for persons and vehicles carrying out certain activities or shall be kept on or on a permanent or occasional basis in the port area. The conclusion is that this Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports helps Croatian shipmen in the first row in their efforts to maintain competitiveness on the international market by protecting the goods they carry. These amendments create a legal framework for the adoption of sub-legislative acts which will regulate the conditions to be met by legal persons providing the service of boarding armed persons for security protection on ships of Croatian nationality. It is also important that armed escorts on board ships should be informed in advance of Croatian sailors and, if they do not wish to board such ships without any negative consequences. We must not allow ourselves to continue to repeat the situations we had in the case of my fellow citizen Mate Luša from Brodarica near Sibenik who was even trapped three times by pirates. Fortunately, every time it ended well for him. I believe that his family and numerous other families are in agreement with this law and therefore the SDP Representatives' Club will support such an amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7985	Thank you. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7986	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, My fellow esteemed representative Vidovic very comprehensively explained the SDP's position and thus presented a whole series of data in support of this law. Right away in the introduction, I will say that the Croatian People's Party club will also support this Act, because in our area, from where we come from, my colleague Vidovic and I, and many other representatives in this House, there is one that can and does not have to live, but it must be sailed. The problem that led to this change and the addition of laws in the world's maritime world is almost as old as maritime. Since the time of the organised transport of goods and goods by maritime transport, parallel to that activity has been established, the activity of ships which are under current international law has been established... She treats territorial waters as armed robbery, if it happens beyond that, she's piracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The difference between piracy and piratery in the world's maritime history of piracy was classic armed robbery and piracy had its own political mentorship and that was it. And for the same reason almost how long this problem lasted was also the practice of armed escort ships in such a way that the crews of ships were combined from that sailor's part of the sea, to an armed escort, like the English merchant navy tradition until the 19th century. Often, merchant ships themselves were partly armed. It has also been practiced in recent times in times of threat and reduced safety on the waterways to organize convoys along with military escorts. So, a series of ways were found to protect crews of ships, but also cargo and ships themselves from the threat. Somehow after World War II in the international maritime public, the world’s public prevailed over thinking that weapons should be removed from ships and almost succeeded in escalating piracy in these areas over the last few years. West and North Indian Ocean, Aden Bay, the Arab Sea. There has been an escalation using some new tactics and a method of raiding ships that are very difficult to control with classical military patrols. The number of raids is enormously high. This resulted in, among other things, an increase in the cost of insurance which is a significant share in the costs of maritime activity, i.e. maritime transport, insurance companies carrying out ship, crew and cargo have significantly raised their premiums on these shipping routes. The World Maritime Organisation's reaction is consistent with all international conventions and provisions... The Conventions on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea followed the way in which fully legitimate protection, armed protection of merchant ships, was allowed again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In parallel, the International Community launched what counterpart Vidovic stated very comprehensively and a whole series of military presence measures in the area. However, it is evident from the very data presented by the World Maritime Organisation to the expert public that there is much more effective protection on the ship itself. More than 260 attacks recorded in 2011 were recorded exclusively on ships that did not have an armed escort aboard the ship itself. What are the important things in this law to pay attention to? What is prescribed, and which is important, that the company that owns the ship is not allowed to board any armed protection but is solely for the protection which is licensed and which is authorised. It is a very important detail that the use of the armed forces for the purpose of protecting the ship cannot be carried out without the consent of the ship's commander. One of the fundamental quality of management in the maritime sector is precisely the role of ship commander who is on board a higher authority than the ship owner himself, which is not the case in other activities. Namely, even when the ship's owner is boarded on board, the last executive is the one given by the ship's commander. He has full responsibility and in this case he still has powers and that's good. It is equally good that the legislator has provided for and made the necessary evaluations of the plans for the behaviour and obligation protocol also no less important for each crew member to be informed and to be announced to board an armed escort in order to have the free will to decide whether the ship on which an armed escort is boarded is still staying or will leave him at the next port. What's also new is the recognition of this problem and in the context of the motionless so-called. Water facilities, i.e. let's be direct about platforms for oil and gas research. In fact, shortly before this practice, unfortunate practices that occurred in the Indian Ocean were recorded and threatened by oil platforms especially in the Nigerian area, and in these episodes some of our oil platform workers came into a situation where their safety was threatened. And it is therefore good that this Law has touched that question. Similarly, the issue of increasing security and harmonising safety rules in the hands of open public transport of international importance has been touched, the introduction of identification codes for people staying in the public transport port area of international importance. An amendment has also been submitted to this Act. What we think is necessary is to comment on now. The proposal for an amendment is to amend and read in Article 3(1): "To implement protection measures in accordance with the risk assessment of pirate attacks and armed robbery carried out by the ministry. Let's not make the ministry a commitment that the ministry can't really serve. I'll explain why. In addition to all the measures established on board by international law of the sea and maritime practice, one of the essential safety factors in maritime transport is the interconnection of all the commanders and crews of the ships staying in the aquariums, intensive communication and exchange of essential information for the safety of navigation is a much more operational and much better solution which is stated in the law itself. Security conditions, whether due to this kind of threat or any other threat at sea, can be changed in minutes and hours, not just in days or weeks. Putting this kind of procedure on the ministry's burden is very impractical because when a sudden situation is changed in an area during the holidays or weekend, regardless of the competence of the people sitting in the ministry, this is a very slow course in maritime life. It is not to be overlooked that people who command and sail on ships are nothing less in their profession and this matter with due respect and than people who sit in the ministry, ultimately in the ministry of responsible places, former commanders of the Trade Navy sit. That is why the HNS Club will not support this amendment because we believe that the solution provided for in the law is better. After all, what is there to say? This law is important in view of the topic it deals with, but when it comes to our relationship, the policy attitude towards the maritime economy is not an important step and in any case is not revolutionary. Because we have witnessed the last 20 years of systematic collapse of the maritime economy and it would be good if, besides this law, changes to other laws, amendments and additions came very quickly, new legal documents that the ministry updated the regulations because, with the blessing of high policy in Croatia over the past 20 years, we have ruined the Croatian merchant navy and brought it down to the rest of the remains today, there is a threat not from armed robbery but from the difficult conditions of business and in the case of passenger carriers in maritime transport on domestic lines, when it comes to all other private and small Croatian shipmen. It is time to deal very seriously and very systematically with the activity that was once competitive and while it was being taken into account that the amount of foreign exchange inflow should have been brought especially in the early 1980s as recorded by the tourist activity. Perhaps few representatives in the Croatian Parliament know about this combination and this information without any underestimation today. Therefore, it is very important to pass laws and laws in an urgent manner when the interests of the maritime economy sector are at stake and for this reason the HNS club will support this law, and for those reasons we do not agree with the content of the amendments that colleagues have submitted to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7987	Thank you. The views of the Croatian Labour Party will be brought closer to us by the distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7988	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor. I've been told before by two respected MPs who are both from that part, so it's hard not to have respect for that debate now, and in any case I appreciate it, it's still something I take for granted when I talk about the railroad. However, it should be borne in mind that it is, without alluding to anything else, that both of them are from the ruling coalition and normally present the positive sides of this bill. However, I think the order is familiar with the representatives and the general public and with the other details. Among other things, when a proposal for this law was discussed, that is, amendments to this law were found to be a bit of a risky law, and I definitely agree with that opinion. Why is he risky? It's risky because whenever there's a weapon, then there's a certain risk and it increases with the amount of weapons. The greater the weapons, the greater the chance of armed conflict. The fact is that colleagues here have always mentioned 5 countries that have armed ones, which use such a solution with an armed escort, but there are other maritime countries that have developed maritime companies, but I haven't heard that they use it. On the other hand, let's say to risk water, the international community is trying to stop some military forces from this trend that's happening. I think it's small and the board itself has been used a few clumsy formulas, so among other things, it's said that if a ship is armed and pirates find out, that's what it shows to them with a normal fire exchange that they'll simply retreat, because it's mainly about such a group of people. It reminds me of those performances of Zeljko Pervan before the war I'll come to barricades around Knin and tell him to be normal, go home, what you're here for. And then if he won't do anything, then I won't deal with the savage, and I'll leave us. But there's no leaving here, there's both of them armed and now there's a third party showing up. I fear that if there is a more serious exchange of fire between the international forces responsible for the protection of these ships and these pirates, and now there is another third option to include the ship itself in this so that there may be general chaos. I don't know, I really don't have any contact with these people, but I think as soon as someone's ready to take up arms and force someone, there's something with the weapon that there's a very high probability that they'll use that weapon. Now, given that, at least from the information I know on unarmed ships, there was no, I don't know, liquidation, there were no killings in terms of some resisting, in this case I clearly note as a possibility that something tragic might happen. Now I ask the question, what is our responsibility in all of this, or what would my colleague Baranovic say when we talked last week about sending our unarmed members to Syria, if it's going to protect a human life, if it's going to save a house or if we're going to do something wrong, in the main sense, you know, so I'm asking, if we're going to jeopardize a human life with this, did we do a good job? Just this as thinking, I believe in people who have experience from that branch, but I also know there's a risk, there's a danger, and what's best of all on the board I've heard and other people who have let's say from that branch close to it so they've brought out significantly different attitudes. The second part, which is already a colleague of Baranovic, is the second part of my debate that my colleague Baranovic has already mentioned, and concerns our proposal for our amendment, which is why Croatian Labourists went with the amendment. First, in my opinion, it's illogical for us to transfer that obligation to the shipowner. The shipowner may say for financial reasons that he did not, that his assessment was that there was no, there is no particular danger and therefore give up the engagement of the security forces. Likewise, when we mention the ministry's obligation, given that our amendment is going precisely to be the ministry's obligation, I think there is something called diplomatic lines, diplomatic ties that are definitely more available to governments, or ministries, and these channels, and that is another reason why this obligation would have a ministry. Kolega Baranovic noted that there is a common flow of information, i.e. exchange of views among shipowners, or captains, ship commanders in these areas, definitely they remain and no one intends to ban it or to disable it, but it would remain clear because of the details that there are diplomatic channels here, diplomatic links with which some information can possibly be reached, perhaps even planned, in some period when it is expected that ships will sail into that disputed zone, that a certain country will carry out some military action that ships cannot, the commanders of other ships can't know, and these paths of diplomatic ties will suggest ok, don't go what they're going to suggest, it's already closer to that branch. Definitely, these diplomatic ties are not available, at least not to the extent available to shipping companies, i.e. those ship commanders, and that is one of the reasons why I think this should remain, i.e. to accept the amendment of the Croatian Labourists, that this obligation should nevertheless be originally at the Ministry, by not moving in any part of it from shipowners, or shipowners and ship commanders. I know that, given the strength ratio in this House, that definitely this law will pass, as it is, but I can't appeal to your conscience again, think about it one more time, there are different opinions, although we haven't heard them here except from us from the opposition, there are different opinions as to whether this is safety, whether this is an increased security or an increased risk. Also, if, not if, surely, you will pass this law, I urge you to reconsider this possibility for the ministry to be the one that makes up the risk assessment. This has made nothing impossible for boaters or commanders, they remain that, but it is absurd for me to have Croatian citizens sailing on those ships, so lightly the ministry is transferring it to shipping companies. It doesn't matter what private companies are, it is about Croatian citizens, and my opinion is that both the Croatian government and any Croatian ministry must take all actions, all the measures available to protect Croatian citizens no matter where they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7989	Thank you. For the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative, Franco Vidovic, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7990	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, esteemed colleague Novak said in his speech that he was not sure what would happen when the third party appeared, approximately in the possible exchange of fire. There's no third party, so there's only two sides. There is an international community, security guards who now sail on ships and which Croatia, by this law, is seeking to regulate on these lines. So now we have one legal vacuum, people are boarding those ships anyway, protecting those ships. Now we have a legal vacuum, this is just an attempt to bring order into that segment and nothing else, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7991	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the distinguished representative Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7992	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. So the essence of the law as Mr. Antesic himself pointed out, is right here expressed on page one, that with the following information about increasingly frequent pirate attacks on merchant ships in certain areas, for example. The Arab Sea, the Ardin Bay, the North-West parts of the Indian Ocean, and the efficiency of the armed escort loaded to ships as a deterrent, consider the possibility of boarding an armed escort on ships of Croatian state, etc. So if all this is in line with the provisions of international law, and there is no need to doubt that it isn't, then why not support one of these laws? The right to self-defense is legitimate in the event of an attack and something like that. Clearly, what Mr. Antesic pointed out is that this armed escort must be on the cargo of the shipowners, or on the company's burden, not on the state. Although when it happens, let's say some hijacking ship makes it clear that it becomes a country under whose flag that ship is sailing either consular or other relations of our country. On the side of five of this law, it is said that the company is responsible for any ship that will sail to marine areas where there is a high risk of pirate attacks or armed robbery of ships to create and assess the risk of pirate attacks and armed robbery, then define and implement measures to protect against pirate attacks, co-operate with international forces, protection in risk areas, and that I do not now highlight all other provisions of this article. Maybe we should just be more specific when we get on a ship in the event of that threat he can use a weapon. It is clear that I do not expect that the Croatian merchant navy when we almost destroyed or questioned the wartime become now the Navy. An armed escort, as the legislator or legislator himself points out, should be subordinated to the ship's commander. But speaking of these dimensions of this piracy, mostly with that horn of Africa, but we heard about the endangered platform in Nigeria, I can't understand, for example. that international forces with all that technology are unable to "break" I can't destroy, prevent these armed Somali gangs, pirates, pirates whatever we're going to call them. Every movement is monitored from space, and there it simply happens to be a 200-, 300-metre-long, seized ship and then simply missing any intervention by international forces. It is absolutely necessary to support this law although we all agree that this is not only Croatia, but this may be primarily a pair of excellence international topics. I think as it is in front of the HNS club, we should also point out here that we should also talk about the restoration of the ship's industry, which is almost decimated by the destruction of Croatia Line, we should talk about domestic shipyards, to start rebuilding those domestic fleets, so that in a few years we don't run out of boaters and jobs more precisely without a fleet and without ports and without a shipyard, we don't lose the industrial character of our coastal sites. I'd rather talk about the fate of the shipyard than about this law, even though I consider the law absolutely logical and above all necessary. Right, in this international mission that someone mentioned before Atalanta, if I am not wrong to call it and Croatia gives five officers. So we must be absolutely interested in the success of this mission as well as any other world where Croatian soldiers participate, above all, in Afghanistan, although I think that mission has failed. In 2011, 45 ships were hijacked, 53 ships were hijacked with 1181 sailors. We have up to 550 attacks a year on certain ships under various flags. According to the International Maritime Organisation, a total of 266 pirate attacks and armed robbery of ships, and 270 attempts, were registered "at global level during 2011" and a total of 266 pirate attacks and armed robbery of ships and 270 attempts. According to available data, no ship with armed escorts has yet to be hijacked. This is what should certainly be underlined and what is certainly the character of this law. What's equally important is that in some way we might regulate that sailors who, for example, don't want to sail such routes don't want to have to board those ships, more specifically not to be subject to any sanctions if they say no, we won't sail on such a one-way route. Although I agree with that one, I don't know the tale of the Dalmatian, the coasters, the Istrians, it doesn't matter that "Living doesn't have to, but it has to." Freight insurance premiums on the team and such routes are always significantly higher. Armed escorts will be further hit by shipmen, and many of them at this time of crisis, when they de facto work without any gain can also face problems, and then companies generally switch to sailors. Here and there we can read this or that ship I don't know by this or that flag on which they sail and the Croatian sailors are stopped at that port because no port services have been paid and then the home state, our consular departments or embassies must again be included here and in some way try to "from such wrecks" save our fellow citizens. After the collapse or better said I would say surrenders, if I am not mistaken Diabu, Croatia Line to those Libyan mechanics or as they are called or French anyway, yet several companies in this country have been singled out as those who can continue to present the form of the Adriatic orientation of the Republic of Croatia. I mean here on both tanker sailing and the Atlantic navigation on Losinj sailing clearly on Oily sailing, etc., etc. What we should expect when the state meets these companies to at least order ships in domestic shipyards. It is safe for these companies to order ships in domestic shipyards so that at least one Croatian shipyard can operate at full capacity. Finally, let us bear in mind the fact that in the early 1990s we privatized Croatia's fleet with no idea how many hundred or more, 150 ships, that one ship is roughly new on the market, worth 50, 60 million dollars, that some co-owners of these companies when it turns into their shares are owners of two, three or not. How, how? What they had in the '90s so that we could go here today if we submitted the property card to find that it was a hundred or more million dollars. Let's at least get those boaters, if we save the failed Croatia line or the abandoned Diabo, at least they're doing business somehow. And by the end and by the end, we will clearly support this law, but be careful with the privatisation of the Oilman. Between the state and private investors, and even the workers I choose the state, I trust the state more because the state can still stand behind something, the worker can only guarantee by his work. Okay, there are good examples, privatization of some small shipyards, let's say one "Technomont" from Pula, but I said it was a neatly run shipyard, a little bit, etc. I regret the "Kinglevica" but perhaps one day there will be a theme here about the fate of Croatian shipyards. All in all, I think this Law on the Safety Protection of Naval Ships and Ports is a useful law and I think that if the claim made in this explanation that no ship with an armed escort boarded has been kidnapped is something that should be absolutely persistent. Maybe some details just add up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7993	Thank you very much. I now call for the pay phone of Honorable colleague Igor Cesek to introduce us to the position of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7994	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. First, we need to clarify some features of piracy, and piracy is, by some legal definition, an illegal act of violence committed for personal purposes by passengers or crews of a private ship on the high seas, against another ship or against persons or goods in care. So piracy is an illegal act. If we are looking at statistics, colleagues before me have already mentioned that in 2011, the number of pirate attacks compared to 2010, but the Somali pirates in the number of attempts to hijack ships were more active in last year or in 2011 than in 2010 with 237 attempts, and in 2010 with 219. So in 2011, more than half of the attempts at hijacking ships belonged to the Somali pirates, and they probably now form the largest pirate group. Why is that? They are most popular because, because of the indecision of the international community, pirated occupation has a great future for the misfortune of those who will meet sea pirates somewhere at sea in their lives. Namely, the number of inhabitants of the Earth is growing, the crisis is increasing and poverty is increasing, and the unemployed and hungry have little choice so that anarchy, theft, robbery, piracy and other actions are the future that will be difficult to avoid. In such difficult political and economic circumstances in which Somalia is located, acts of attack and robbery of ships begin, initially mostly towards fishing vessels, in the territorial sea of Somalia and third neighbouring countries, which take away caught fish from foreign fishermen, extort the payment of fish catch fees and take things from the ship to supply poor local communities. Unfortunately, however, the object of the attack is soon to become merchant ships, especially those with food from the World Food Programme with the purpose of taking away food. Since the attacks were initially largely taking place in the territorial sea of Somalia and third neighbouring countries did not respond in a timely and adequate manner to the growing problem but only to take selective actions to safeguard the smooth passage of convoys, ships to individual protected routes, especially those with humanitarian aid to Somalia. In such a situation without the danger of arrest and punishment, the objective of the pirate attack is gradually directed towards the abduction of ships regardless of their size and purpose, commercial and fishing yachts, the capture of the crew as hostages and the demand of high ransom amounts in exchange for their release as a more cost-effective goal. Ready... pirate attacks do not require large financial investments, and the expected gain is enormous, so the practice of piracy becomes a desirable interest in the poored population at the survival border. [[You don't understand.]] The attacks spread very quickly to the Gulf of Aden, the Indian Ocean, affecting the ever larger area of the open sea. They focus exclusively on extorting the ransom by hijacking ships and crews that run through the Suez Canal through this sea route. The consequences are directly borne by crews and shipowners who, by paying the ransom, release the crew and ship, and do not harm the interests of any country in particular directly. The attacks are becoming increasingly organised, more frequent, more brutal, causing major damage to the entire international community because it is a very frequent maritime road with more than 33,000 ships a year that sail this area and which binds more than 20% of the strategic raw materials of world trade. Because of the lack of any control and no danger of arrest, punishment, Somali pirates enjoy a safe haven in the territorial sea and on the mainland of Somalia. The issue of the ransom should also be mentioned as one of the special features of Somali piracy, which has also attracted the attention of the international community, i.e. the governments of individual states lately. In fact, the aim of the Somali pirates is not to rob cargo, fuel and take ships, although it was also in a smaller extent, where the taken ships were later used for further robbery, but were directly targeted by hijacking ships and crews and holding them hostage during the negotiation of the ransom payment. Although for understandable reasons it is difficult to find out the exact amount of ransoms it is known that they initially moved on average of several thousand US dollars, while today on average it is between $2m and $3m, although in individual cases it has already been paid and significantly more. The pirates are estimated to charge over $100 million annually and each pirate makes between $10,000 and $15,000 each. Therefore, this proposal for a law is not bad, but I should, however, like Article 22, which states that the shipowner must ensure that all crew members of the ship are informed of the boarding of persons for armed escorts prior to their boarding or prior to the boarding of persons for armed escorts and that they are aware of the applicable regulations, measures and procedures and must be given the opportunity not to board such a ship, or to take off from it and to ensure their return to their place of residence or to the next appropriate port in which they may continue to sail. In the event of the use of the possibility of refusal to board or to request landings referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, seamen shall not suffer any negative consequences and that is a good thing. It's a good thing and it should be respected. However, I came across an article given by the union president, the secretary of the Croatian Maritime Union, where they say they are not against armed escorting the ship under the Croatian flag, as well as boarding armed escorts on the ships themselves, but believe that if the task is taken over by private security companies, the risk of violence is increased. According to the union, protection jobs should be performed exclusively by specialised members of the Croatian Army or the police. They also point out that the priority should be to allow the pirate to board the ship. So maybe we should think about the law a little bit more, not the emergency procedure. We in the HDSSB would probably be in, like this we'll be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7995	Thank you. We'll hear more of the HDZ Club's views now. They will be presented by distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7996	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports for the first time regulates the issue of safety protection of ships against pirated attacks and armed robbery, and how the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor has begun to address this kind of law, including the preparation of the wording of the law itself, will support the adoption of this form of law. Pirate attacks on ships must be as old as trade and sea navigation, so the Phoenicians are mentioned in the Mediterranean as pirates, and even the great Julius Caesar was once captured by pirates. The most cruel in the Mediterranean were barber pirates. Also known are English, Malabar, Chinese, and other pirates who pillaged ships throughout the world’s seas and oceans until the 19th century. It is legally necessary to distinguish piracy from piracy by which piracy is an illegal act of violence, detention and robbery committed for personal purposes by crew members or passengers of a private ship. But as the oldest profession at sea, the pirates, based on their powers, stop and rob ships, and after heisting with the sovereign in equal parts of the prey. On our shores, the piratery was held until Napoleon's empire. For a long time, piracy and gestation were considered to be just a historical category, but today's reality has seriously denied us. The occasional individual smaller forms of piracy and armed robbery in the recent era appear in the Malacca Strait and on the coasts of Indonesia and Guinea Bay. After the second phase of civil war in Somalia, frequent pirate attacks on merchant ships along the coast of Somalia occur. The fall of President Bara's regime and the collapse of the government ceases to take effect by state institutions including the Navy. Foreign fishing vessels then unauthorizedly began fishing in the rich territorial sea of Somalia. The Somali fishermen began attacking foreign fishing vessels in the first place for the protection of their territorial seas, which later turned into pirate attacks of great proportions. A number of international organisations during 2005 In the first place, the International Maritime Organisation and the International Food and Agriculture Organisation expressed concern over the growing number of pirate attacks. The attacks began along the coast of Somalia and gradually spread to the Gulf of Aden, the Arab Sea and the Indian Ocean. Some attacks have been reported 1200 nautical miles from pirate bases in Somalia or 600 nautical miles from Muscat and as many as 100 nautical miles from the outer islands of India. The intensity of the attack is also related to the following statistics. During 2010, 4185 sailors were attacked by pirate ships, and 1095 sailors were captured. According to April this year, pirates have captured 209 crew members and 7 large ships. During the four - year period, 3,500 sailors were captured, unfortunately 62 of whom died. Many sailors were exposed to torture and torture, and after release they were treated for traumatization. Stable and sophisticated acts of pirates seek and receive ransom, paying $238m in 2010 or nearly 5.4 million in ransoms per ship. Shipowners avoid passing through the Suez Canal, and ships point around the Cape of Good Hope towards the east, sailing at a distance of about 400 nautical miles from the East African coast. The Suez Channel administration lost over 600 million US dollars in 2010. The budgets of prominent world institutions, particularly the German Economic Institute, estimate that world trade lost between $7 billion and $12 billion in 2011 because of the damage to piracy in the Indian Ocean. What is the international community doing? After a terrorist attack on the Italian passenger ship "Akile Laura" in 1985, amendments to the SOLAS Convention under both the IIA and the set up of ISPS to regulate the safety protection of ships were adopted. In 2004, 16 countries signed a regional agreement to fight pirates and armed robbery for the Asian area. In 2004, a task force in which about 45 warships of numerous maritime states, 3 auxiliary ships, 4 Navy aircraft with a total of 2,000 soldiers are operating today, overseeing a large part of the sea space of the Arab Sea and the Indian Ocean. In 2008, an EU NAVOR service consisting of military officials controlling ship navigation, giving instructions for navigation, forming convoys and prescribing navigation routes is established. It was just two or three days ago that these forces destroyed one of the pirate ships in Somalia. In January 2009, an IMO-sponsored meeting was held in Gibuti, where the so-called Movements of the code in which countries have committed to joint action to combat pirates through mutual information, the establishment of national activities coordination headquarters, training of ship's passive defence crews in such a way as to limit the barbed wire, the infuse of fire-smurder attackers or increased duty. Since all the measures listed did not provide for the expected results in the fight against pirates by IMO Resolutions 1405 and 1406 of 2010 and 2011 for the first time IMO provides for the possibility of boarding an armed escort on board ships, calling primarily for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea which, in Articles 1, 100, 105 and 110, provides for the fight against piracy, the right to self-defense, the right of a warship to stop on the open sea and bring a pirate ship. Based on such a position and recommendations from the IMO, no such ship has been attacked recently, although certain security issues have been raised on foreign merchant ships during shipping in endangered areas. Armed escorts are provided by various international companies recruiting demobilised soldiers and officers, marines and others. As I said that the previous government participated in the preparation of this Act in one part, the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor will state here what we did in the period 2009 to 2011 in accordance with the Gigutti Code of July 2009 the Government made a decision on setting up a headquarters to coordinate activities in cases of threat of Croatian ships and Croatian sailors in international navigation. The headquarters consists of representatives of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Home Affairs, Defence, Union and Maritime Affairs whose aim is to coordinate activities to protect over 13,000 of our sailors and 40 of our ships in international navigation. The headquarters has on several occasions coordinated with NATO forces, the families of sailors and shipowners in the event of a pirate attack on foreign ships and in the case of an armed robbery that took place on our ship "MOKOŠICA" on an anchor in Guinea. In collaboration with the Maritime and Shipowners Union, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Development organised several national and international gatherings that discussed how to protect against piracy, including our pirates. On several occasions, ministry staff and port captains participated in seminars organised by EMO and the European Maritime Safety Agency to discuss practical measures to protect ships from pirate attacks. As soon as the IMO recommendation was made, the possibility for the flag state to allow the boarding of armed escorts on ships The Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached its conclusion that, in cooperation with other competent ministries, the Ministry must immediately approach the preparation for the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, which is here today in front of us. We stress that a number of EU Member States have made such a decision. During the preparation of the law, a number of working meetings and meetings were held at which the following issues were firstly discussed: firstly, the ship's right to active self-defense, in which all law experts must give a positive opinion. Second, the ship's commander's responsibility vis-à-vis the members of the armed escort board, with the agreement reached on the absolute command responsibility of the commander. Third, discussions were conducted on the level of risk in the event of an armed escort being boarded in relation to current passive protection without escort. In addition to statistics indicating that no ship with an armed escort has been attacked so far, it is agreed that only the shipowner and commander ultimately decide to board an armed escort for each individual case. And fourthly, it was agreed that the shipowner must not take any action towards a crew member who refuses to board a ship on which an armed escort is boarded. With regard to the conditions to be met by companies providing armed escort services, the possibility of boarding members of the Croatian Army on board ships has been considered, which is impossible in the current legal conditions. It should be noted that representatives of individual associations from the Homeland War have also expressed their readiness to set up an armed escort company, which may well be needed to consider. We stress that foreign companies are charging for an armed escort of several tens of thousands for a period of even less than one day. In line with everything I've said, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of such a form of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7997	Thank you very much. One minute ago in 10.37, it was time to apply for an individual debate of 10 minutes. And the first for the debate was reported by the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7998	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Here we have heard a few thoughts about whether it is necessary to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, or whether it is necessary to allow armed escorts to board ships. Like most people, I believe most people here, you'll agree that guns are not and can't be the best solution to solving problems. However, the practice of ships flying the Gulf of Guinea, the Gulf of Aden and until recently the Malay Passage has shown that the peaceful, passive fight against piracy has had no effect. According to some data at this time, 17 ships with 300 crew members have been kidnapped. So 300 people were captured and captured today because there were no armed escorts on their ships, and the international forces involved in the ocean shield and Atalanta operations were unable to prevent the attack on those ships. In such a situation, the U.S. Government has found that the best practice for the protection of ships is to board armed escorts. The end of such attitudes, the end of such data and what respected colleagues said that no ship on which an armed escort was on was successfully kidnapped I don't think we can and should have doubts about whether this law supports or not. Namely, I am coming from an area that can be considered maritime, where one of Croatia's largest shipping companies must be protected. Unlike some other countries, the Republic of Croatia is unable to send its warships to the Gulf of Aden. Although the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are involved through 5 officers participating in the Atalanta mission in the protection of maritime routes, we, as a state, are unable to send warships. But even if we did, these warships aren't able to stop 100% of the attacks on merchant ships. And that is why we are obliged to allow those ships to be boarded by the men who will protect those ships. Would it be better if that wasn't necessary? It would be. 50 years ago, 60 years ago when my grandfather sailed the idea that he was going to attack you pirates was almost unimaginable. We only thought about pirates as we watched movies, laughed, admired, and some of us, perhaps as children, wanted to be pirates because it all seemed romantic to them. But today it's all just not romantic. It has become a professional profession today from which, as we have heard from our colleagues, a tremendous amount of money is earned. And we have to fight it. So on that side, I consider this home's duty to support this bill. Another question we have heard in the debates so far is it necessary for members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to board these ships? I don't think so. It's about private ships that will decide whether or not to engage protection. So any shipowner will decide after assessing the safety risk whether it is necessary to engage whether a Croatian or foreign company dealing with professional protection services and then board it and pay compensation for it. I don't think the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are and should be the ones to provide such protection. As I have already mentioned, and that has been said by colleagues before, we fulfill our duty in a way that we participate in the Atalanta mission. Would it be good to get more involved? That's what we need to discuss and consider. But just boarding members of the armed forces on board ships, I think it would be wrong. Here's what I'm going to end up with and I'm going to repeat that I think this is a law that needs to be supported anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u7999	Thank you to the esteemed Peggy Grbino. Next in line for the debate is Honorable Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8000	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Act on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, which is the legal basis for cooperation between state authorities, port authorities, shipowners and other natural and legal persons responsible for safe protection for detecting and endangering and taking preventive measures to protect Croatian state-owned ships in international navigation and ports in the Republic of Croatia open to international transport. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Safety of Ships and Ports shall be adopted in order to enable shipowners to engage an armed escort during navigation through areas where the threat of pirate attacks is threatened. It is important to note here that Croatian sailors must be informed to engage an armed escort on board ships, and they may or may not have to board such a ship without any consequences for them. A survey was conducted in which 88% of Croatian sailors declared themselves to be an armed escort, and 40% of those surveyed were already on foreign ships carrying an armed escort. Therefore, since there are increasingly frequent attacks by Pirates on merchant ships in certain areas and information on the efficiency of boarding armed escorts on ships. Some amendments should also be adopted in Croatian legislation, of course, in line with the International Maritime Organisation's recommendations. According to data from the same organisation in 2011, 266 pirate attacks and armed robbery of ships were registered, and as many attempts at attack were made. Also, according to available data, no ship with armed escorts has yet to be hijacked. When we talk about an armed escort, it should be said that it is most often boarded in ports before entering an increased risk zone, and is disembarked upon departure from such a zone. Croatian experts in international law of the sea also argue that there are no obstacles to boarding ships with weapons of escorts, nor is it contrary to international conventions and Croatian legislation. It should be noted that this is not about arming ships and crews, as we have heard from colleagues here, but only about boarding an armed escort while the ship is sailing areas where the threat of pirate attacks threatens. What is also important to note is that all the costs of boarding persons for armed escorts on board are fully borne by the company. Similar legal solutions already exist, i.e. they have already been introduced in some European Union countries, then in Norway, and in some countries it is being considered or it is also an appropriate regulation. This law also stipulates that the provisions of the laws applicable to ships are also applicable to fixed coastal facilities, but as laid down by technical rules. The amendments and additions to technical rules should, of course, take into account all the specificities of fixed coastal objects and their similarities and differences with respect to ports and ships. This law also regulates questions relating to identification cards for persons and vehicles carrying out a specific activity, whether continuously or occasionally, in the field of port or in the port of operations in such a way as to prescribe who has to have an identification card, mandatory carrying of a card, the authority to issue, the obligation to comply with general and specific conditions for issuing cards and the competence to verify compliance with general and specific conditions. Finally, this law complies with the General Administrative Procedure Act in the section relating to the Board of Appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8001	Thank you, Reverend Habek. It is time to hear the debate of the distinguished representative Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8002	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since I come from the most coastal island, yet Korcula has about 550 sailors, we have about 800 sailors on the island, 3 shipyards and 3 maritime companies. So it's quite significant this law for sailors sailing on our ships. Piratery in the past was not unknown, the concept of piracy even in movies, won the sympathies of ships and us individuals. International... piracy is far from what was in the past, and the numbers of attacks by hijacked, murdered and missing sailors, ships, cargo alerts us to alarming situations. [[You don't understand.]] An unstable country like Somalia, a country of West and East Africa that has become an oasis of pirates in the coastal part of thousands of kilometers that use international open sea freedom and riots in the territorial seas of their own country. Fear and trembling bring instability to the world's most important maritime trade routes. My colleagues were just talking about the victims so far in 2011, 2012. I can only get some information that in 2008, we had 306 attacks on ships, 51 hijacked ships, 774 hijacked sailors, 42 injured, 6 killed and 38 missing. In 2009, we have 406 attacks on ships, 56 hijacked ships, 746 hijacked sailors, 56 injured, 8 killed and nine missing sailors. In 2010, we have 489 attacks on ships, 57 hijacked ships and 1209 hijacked sailors, 30 injured and 2 killed. When we see on the economic side what it is, it's that we've had losses in the assessment of payments, between $7 billion and $12 billion a year are the payments and economic losses of these companies, these companies that work. Despite the actions of the IMO maritime states, IMO organisations of maritime states communities and military efforts, primarily America and NATO, which were primarily driven by a strong interest in the preservation of ships and cargo. In 2011, 30 NGOs and governmental organisations around the world put the focus of the protection interest finally on the seafarers and their lives. Why sailors? We must take care because 25 thousand of our sailors sail on our ships seas around the world. While some advocated a peaceful model to prevent the threat of violence, others felt that paying the ransom encouraged and helped to expand pirate activity. Uniquely, if pirates get a ransom job, it's good, it's worth my while, and I need it to continue. That's what opponents of the ransom are hard against the payment. The second debate was due to competent armed escorts and a far-reaching round of interventions of military ships and trial of pirates. This is the international law of the true fiasco, in fact, the arrested pirates remained a judicial problem for all, and most often because of the legal provision they were extremely free. The authorities in Somalia refused to judge at all, and the Westerners feared that pirates would ask for asylum in the countries in which they were tried. It's all an event that worries us all, and I think the government has made the right decision and that care for the safety of every single one of our sailors who has turned out to be the most important place yet is now the protection of the seafarer means human life. We see today if we don't have escorts, what's going on? There is a ship that enters these crisis areas and its only defense that we have seen many times and read that these ships with hundreds of meters of horned wire will be covered, their decks and command bridges. It was the only protection. Well, I think this is the right thing to do, and I think I'm personally happy to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8003	In this debate we have reported one replica, the distinguished representatives of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Marelic, I agree with you that we need this law, but I'm curious, you're saying this is a very significant law for our sailors. I know and it's been said that there's been a lot of conversation with ship owners because they're still protecting their property, but sailors are protecting something even more important, their lives. So I'm just wondering how many sailors were involved in the creation of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8005	You called your colleague Marelic a little late. We'll hear another individual debate. It will be presented by the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister. I will also support this law, but let me because under the given conditions it is still some newspaper that is being introduced on our ships. It seems to me that maybe we should talk more carefully about something that's news on our ships, which is that weaponry escort. Every armed escort requests in my court personally that such an armed escort be looked upon with caution and caution, so I would like to respect, of course, all these conditions which are why this is happening on our ships if we are obliged to amend this law or we should send this armed escort. I'd like to say first that perhaps with that caution, something else should be done. First of all, I know that in these dangerous areas, our ships are being driven. It would be good if Mr. Deputy knew how many of our ships in those areas are flying annually. Is that 5, 50, 15 of those ships? I think that, in the light of this law, it should also stand to know what the risk is and how many boaters it is. It is also interesting to say in Article 22 that, of course, the minister, with prior consent, will allow the boarding of persons for the arms of escort ships of Croatian state during sailing to dangerous areas where there is a high risk of pirate attacks. This knowledge of the ministry must make what decision is related to the previous debate seems to me to be colleagues from the opposition who were saying that maybe that amendment should be adjusted a little bit to see why this is being made by the shipowner. Because you see here before submitting that request, Mr. Deputy, it says that when a shipowner makes a risk assessment, and he does that assessment, he must include safety and safety conditions on board, the previous use of all practical self-protection measures, potential abuses as possible of firearms and related injuries or deaths, potential unforeseen accidents, liability issues, if that happens, potential escalating situations and, of course, compliance with international and national law. So that's what a boatman does. There aren't as many employees as I know people who understand safety assessments. The safety assessment is, however, provided by some professional people who have been involved in safety assessments in their profession. Right away, I'm associated with probably ex-retired people who worked in security services. So someone professional should give that security assessment based on what the minister then seeks and allows to board an armed crew. And I think that it should be in the law somewhere not to be done by a clerk in a company, but that it is done by really experts, since it is especially necessary to include the emphasis on the potential abuse of firearms and related injuries or death. If that happens, we need to be really careful and sure that's what professional people did. It is also good that over these armed men and an armed escort, the commander has the power and the possibility that I will say it harshly, commander. So the commander must also pass through my court some kind of security training when he has to assess that fire is being opened to something or someone, to potential danger or not, no fire is being opened. So the commander must be educated, which is the situation when he orders the armed escort to open this kind of fire, which may potentially be dangerous to the crew for which the ship's commander is responsible. And that's why it seems to me that maybe one way to define it is by being an armed escort. So, on the assessment and here we're talking about who needs to do this risk assessment, I think we should also introduce an institute of professional people of some kind who are dealing with it, depending on how many people are likely to be on that ship. What does an armed escort mean? It's not defined here, is it one, two, three, five people. How many people are involved in an armed escort? Is it some kind of military formation, so it's a platoon, so I know how. So maybe that should define that it's two, three, five, I don't know how many people. And of course, what seems to be in my court is that the law should also lay down what weapon it is, which means armed escorts, with which they are armed, light weapons, heavy weapons, which are armed, by chance, by accident. I think that should be defined by law, that it's an easy weapon or a termology of that weapon as different as it can be done, but a consistent assessment of the danger and that kind of weaponry should be. You'll probably bring that with a rule book. It would be good because of the sensitivity and potential danger to the crew of the ship itself that we can define it by law to know in advance that it is an armed escort composed of three professional men who are armed and so, the weapon must, of course, be locked down. It must be written somewhere that you cannot walk with these weapons on board, that the weapon should be locked until conditions occur when the captain or commander of the ship can order that weapon to be used. And I'm not drawn to the fact that this amendment is confirmed, the law is passed to enforce the law. If the company thinks it's too expensive for her, that law doesn't have to be implemented as far as I'm concerned. He's not gonna put an armed escort on the line, and he's gonna take his chances. I think it should be defined that when it is estimated that the area of ships under the Croatian flag and Croatian shipmen must have that armed escort, it must be put into law that they must, because today it is all a matter of market, a matter of price. If the shipowner assesses that it is too expensive for him, and in these conditions in which he may be too expensive, he will put the safety of the Croatian crew at risk without paying. So it would have to be said somehow that he must pay, that under these conditions in which unwanted consequences of piracy or piratery may occur, he must have an armed escort. Here's what I think maybe these things should be made a little bit different in the law to make it more accurate and just by being more precise, which some things will be known and safer for the crew of the ship on which that armed escort is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8007	Thank you, dear Luke Denon. Now another five-minute debate on behalf of the HNS club and distinguished representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here is some final summary of the subject which was imposed by the debates and the thesis raised in the discussions of the distinguished colleagues who spoke about this bill. A fundamental dilemma is going through a few discussions, whether or not the weapons on board ships, whether the Ghandievian approach might increase the level of safety of Croatian sailors on those ships or we will protect them as this law suggests. I somehow regularly, and probably all of you, experience the first good morning at the entrance to the Assembly of some self-secretful quiet people in black suits. Some of them have their earphones discreetly behind their ears. I doubt that in a drawer or under a suit they hold a carnation, perhaps on May 1st, yes, but surely at their work they have adequate means of protecting this Parliament, the people who are in this House and the property of this Parliament. A similar situation is across the street, but not only would someone not think only politicians in this country are protecting themselves. When you enter banks, those serious, big banks then you see one, two, three, four, as many security guards depending on how much money is in the vault and how many clients visit that bank. Basic police patrol armed with the aim of protecting property and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And talk about it in this situation that we've been informed of by international institutions like IMO I think is unnecessary. This is a completely clear situation and a fully clear bill based on international law, which among other things was written by Croatian experts on international law of the sea, and in this law, as one of the fundamental rights, the right to self-defense was incorporated. What's going on with the ships that were taken? Does the state possibly pay the ransom, has such a mechanism in its laws and the budgeted funds? No, I don't. Unfortunately, the answer is no. In the event of the abduction of a Croatian ship under the Croatian naval flag and seamen boarded on that ship, other than diplomatic channels that will attempt diplomatic methods to resolve the matter, the matter solves the company, and fear suffers from the families of the seamen. Armed protection of people and property is today in all segments of society a completely normal and normal thing. The issue of numbers, types of weapons on board, the number of security guards depends on the security assessment, and ultimately on the characteristics because it is not the same to protect a ship that has 20 thousand tons of load capacity or a super tanker of 350 thousand tons of load capacity. A 300 - metre - long ship must surely protect much more guards than a 150 - long ship. These are the things mathematically and technically that I don't think this law can answer. They will respond to the practice and assessment of professional people, which will build on the basis of this law on security assessments of the protocol and protection. What was the subject of the amendment and the issue of creating a security assessment by the ministry, you know when Titanic sailed towards the santa, no ministry sent a telegraph warning to the Titanic commander, his colleagues sent him, more of them. And how fortunate that, in the consciousness of all the sailors, the postulate that is now under way, professionally, when your colleague warns you to take this seriously. Had he understood the warning he received in time in real time, the last one would have received even hours before the Santah conflict itself, the 1500 people who drowned in the icy sea would not have lost their lives but would have been very unlikely to have a tragedy. Unfortunately, he didn't listen to them, and some warning he'd been waiting for diplomatic channels through some kind of assessment of people in offices, without the intention of underestimating anyone, I don't think it's a practical method. Seafarers function as a pack, protect each other and have their information exchange systems, assess and allow them to protect their lives and their property and their existence in accordance with international law and this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8009	Thank you. Mr Zdenko Antešić would also like to address the debates brought forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. At first, I would like to thank you for an extremely constructive discussion and valuable advice that will certainly help to produce a regulation that will be necessary for the application of this Law. But allow me, I owe you an answer to a few of the dilemmas that have been shown here. Here is primarily Mrs. Ruža Tomasic, who asked if they were, who was consulted in the making of this Law. Here they can answer this, that when the law was drawn up, the issuers from this area were consulted, and the shipowners' association in international navigation and, of course, the seamen's unions, so that the law, as the HDZ Club's representative, has stressed, has not been working since yesterday. So this is one long period of law making. He has recently come to the final stage so that he has passed me a broad discussion and discussion and I think a relatively satisfactory solution has been found in the context of this situation. There were many, or sufficient objections to Article 3. A law defining security, protection, procedures, etc. So here are all these questions I think are in the articles, in Article 3 and they are further below the articles that are marked by the number 22. So 22a. up to 22f. are more or less defined answers to all the questions that have been asked here. I mean the procedure itself, the process of making an assessment of the threat, the issuing of passes, the consent given by the minister of course. Finally, however, he gives the minister in charge of the maritime area with the agreement of the interior minister. So, in any case, state control was put in place, so the competent ministry would avoid any misunderstandings. Also, here is the article 22f. It's defined even the type of weapon, so it can be used. So, perhaps it is worth looking back with a few words on this amendment to the Club of Representatives – Labour Party. I think he, that this amendment is quite different, sets the whole concept of this law in order for the assessment of the threat to be done by the ministry. We think it's not good, and Mr Baranovic gave the best explanation for it. So I think the people of the profession, or the seamen or the companies sailing through certain seas, know best where the greatest threat is and according to their needs, of course after the pass is given by the minister. At the end of the day, it's still the state. And I think this is a much better solution and a better quality solution than to do this assessment of the people of the ministry. It was still a question of what, of course, the number of ships of Croatian nationality covered by this Law. Here's the answer. Therefore, the use of Long Branch and tracking databases of the European Union found that in the period, here is, in particular, from 27.3. this year to 10.5. this year because this is the maximum period where the data are stored. The movements of the ships of the Republic of Croatia, in fact of the flags of the Republic of Croatia in the territory of Somalia, have been observed. Therefore, the Gulf of Guinea and Singapore area are continuously monitored by 52 ships. So 52 ships, a total of 52 ships are being monitored based on this database. Now, once again, thank you for your valuable suggestions, and I think the adoption of this Law will raise the safety of our sailors to a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8011	Thank you, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate on the text of the law, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8012	We're moving on to a statement on the points we discussed this week. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 76. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Laburist. I would ask Mr. Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antesic to come to the pay phone and declare himself on the amendments, first of all, to the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go. Legislative Committee, amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8013	Thank you very much. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8014	You can do it again. So the amendment accepts first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8015	Yes, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8016	Amendment to Article 7, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8017	An amendment to the Advocacy Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8018	No, no, we're still on the Legislative Committee. We have an amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8019	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8020	The same thing is accepted. Then we have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8021	The amendment of the Labour Labour Party Club does not accept, on the grounds that this amendment suggests that an assessment of the risk of pirate attacks or armed robbery be carried out by the ministry which we believe is not a good, or proposed solution to which an assessment of the risk of pirates and armed robbery is proposed to be done by companies, i.e. companies owned by ships and we believe that this is a better solution than that of the ministry. And the simple ministry is not possible, it's impossible to make such an assessment that it would be objective and correct because it's actually done in the field of the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8022	Thank you. Declaration on the amendment or the indication of Mr Novak's government on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8023	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy, fellow MPs. We continue to believe that it is necessary to declare that this amendment should be made known by the Parliament. It is, however, the safety of Croatian citizens, and as far as the whole world is concerned, it is several crisis points. The ministry certainly has diplomatic channels at its disposal that can obtain more reliable data that are important for risk assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8024	Thank you. Who's up for the amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes with 104 votes in favour, 4 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8025	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 85. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Ms Tamara Obradovic-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8026	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 85. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Ms Tamara Obradovic-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8027	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We're going to discuss clubs. And no, before the workers want to take a word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the HNS club and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8028	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected deputies, colleagues and colleagues. In energy, domestic legislation is largely already in line with the EU acquis. The relevant Electricity Market Act regulates the possibility of obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer if the manufacturer in the production facility simultaneously produces electricity and heat in a highly efficient manner at the same time as using waste or renewable energy sources for the production of electricity in an economically appropriate manner that is consistent with environmental protection regardless of the power of the production facility. The electricity market law is laid down for all buildings for the production of electricity, the granting of energy approval. The adoption of implementing rules in the area of renewable energy sources, which has been applied since 1 July 2007, has spurred a strong interest from investors in the construction of electricity-generating facilities from renewable energy sources. A large number of potential investors have reported their projects to gain the status of a privileged producer of renewable energy and cogeneration. In order to simplify and improve administrative procedures that will allow for a simpler and faster implementation of a larger number of small power plants projects and to achieve the objectives set out in the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the revision of the process and incentives for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and cogeneration has been made. Given that the existing regulation is not adequately taken into account the size and purpose of production facilities and for all plants the same conditions and procedures are prescribed by the adoption of this law supplementing the Electricity Market Act allow for the exception of the energy approval procedure and the procedure for obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer for simpler buildings, for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and cogeneration in the way that this is addressed to other units of larger power. The additions to the law therefore opens up the possibility of significant simplification of the procedure and retains all necessary technical elements of safe and reliable installation and use of such resources as are prescribed by other legal and sublaws both in the energy segment and in the construction segment. As a result of the small production unit of a solar power plant integrated on roofs, small domestic wind power plants, mini cogenerations and the like as electricity producers will be able to be connected to the network in a similar way to which the electricity consumption is connected. Their production will be purchased by the Croatian energy market operator at the prices set out in the introduction of the government representative and by the incentives from the tariff system. It is therefore possible to exclude the participation of the Ministry of Economy and the Croatian Regulatory Agency from the process of obtaining the status of a privileged producer of electricity for small producers, thereby significantly reducing and simplifying the whole process. Since the purpose of the adoption, as well as the implementation of the Law on Supplements to the Electricity Market Act, is generally accepted, the concept of simplifying procedures for simpler, i.e. small objects of renewable energy sources and cogeneration of the HNS Club supports this proposal for a law to adopt and accelerate investment in these alternative energy sources after an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8029	Thank you, too. We heard the position of the HNS club, and now we will hear the position of the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8030	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So this law, as highlighted here in the review of the situation and the basic issues which are being regulated, speaks of the fact that the current Electricity Market Act as well as the acquisition of the status of the privileged electricity producer, if the manufacturer in the production facility simultaneously produces electricity and heat in a highly efficient manner, etc., and then here, on the sides of the three Articles 1 and 2 of this Law, is regulated which, in order to express simple structures, which will not require an energy approval, is a ready quote. And clearly it's up to you and you have these formulations, this law absolutely needs to be supported. I would say not only because of energy or electricity but also because of a good message that finally in this country accessing a legal deregulation, that some things are intended to be easier, faster, simpler, cheaper, more effective in one word, and that's certainly the point of this law. I'm sure it would also be useful, as far as I know, to give us a parallel plan of these huge energy investments. It is mentioned in public, Ombla near Dubrovnik, what we come from Istria particularly interested in is this Plomin 3, I can't believe that RWE is now as I read somewhere, this multinational who built the tide 2, but also what we owe the citizens of the Labinity to ask them in the referendum what they think of this investment? Are you in, are you in? Plane 3 on coal, nothing more, nothing less than that. And otherwise, as far as RWE is concerned, he's certainly correct, accessing use, construction of the Plomin 2 thermal power plant, according to the Germans himself, the Labinians themselves. One such investment would certainly strongly pull, not Istria but all of Croatia forward, but after Rockwool and bad experience with Plomin one understand Labinjane and those people with the right to smoke and to the cold, but I won't talk about it anymore. Speaking of renovated, or renewable sources of energy from producers of these panels in Croatia, as far as I know in Istria, we have two such producers, more importers, Technomont Pula, Solvis from Novigrad, importers are in Rasha, etc. When exports fall at this time of these panels, mainly in Italy which I don't know, the Istrian economy's domestic market would be great if the Croatian market of panels were to be strongly opened. These conditions, mentioned by the deputy minister, were absolutely favourable, are now less favourable. So the price of the panel is 20,000 euros, the connection is around 2,000 euros, the investment should be back in five to seven years, the contract lasts with HEP 14 years, and "the life of these panels", if I may put it that way up to 25 years. The technomont in Pula produces those hot water panels, Solvis from Novigrad photovoltaic electricity panels, I know that something similar is being done in Varazdin, Split. We have a whole series of importers, maybe 20, 30 in Croatia. When we get those contributions in new ones, we have opportunities to track what costs, etc. Many of these panels are bought in China, which exports to Croatia, or we import a billion six million from China, just last night I was looking at some dollar goods log, and we're exporting somewhere $60 million or maybe $60 million. And I mean, what should be particularly stimulating is domestic producers, not these importers. What's certainly the good part of this law is that I said deregulation. As the deputy minister said in two moves, in sixty days we'll solve the problem. In order to address this problem, obtaining that energy approval should have been for those who decided to make such an investment for two and more years. However, what has happened lately are incentives for that electricity or for that renewable energy, these incentives have recently been reduced by about 30% if I do not cheat by about 30%, by 30%. This on the other hand encourages development, it reduces interest, but the absolute first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic is right when he says that such produced electricity from these renewable sources is generally nine times more expensive than this other energy produced in these conventional facilities, if I may put it so. What would certainly be good would be to provide us with this catalogue and these large energy investments. It is clear that this law should be supported in the belief that citizens' interest will in due course be significantly greater for this type of investment than it has been so far. The truth to the impoverished citizen who sells gold to pay for the directorship, and it's not up to the panel, it's up to twenty-really thirty percent of their electricity collection. I don't know if you gentlemen noticed one piece of information that Croatia exported 334.9 million kunas of gold in the first three months, millions of kunas of gold, you know what that says. In four months, we will make 200m euros, in four quarters means in a year, 200m euros in gold, it is a sign of a crisis. Every city has more of these ransom places for that gold than a panel, and if this law helps to change it should absolutely support it. And finally, here, if I'm not wrong on Saturday or Friday, Saturday, a SDP tribune was held in Labin, where Professor Škrec was staying and I quote: But to the surprise of those who listened to him carefully, and according to questions after the lecture, there was very little, according to Neda Čalic, Škrelac made a series of arguments against coal in his speech, not only of the ecological but also of the economic ones, saying at the end of the doubt about the performance of this project, I mean the thermoelectric Plomin 3. In fact, Dr Škrec believes that HEP, i.e. Croatia, will find it very difficult to find a strategic partner to pay for the construction of Plomin 3 thermal power plant according to the European Union's ecological standards, etc. But let us let this topic that we will likely discuss more in due course, this Law on the electricity market is correct and should surely be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8031	Thank you very much. The position of Croatian Labourists on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Electricity Market Act will be presented by respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8032	Honorable Vice President, esteemed dignitaries, respected colleagues and colleagues. Anything that allows more electricity to be produced either from renewable sources or from classic power plants is welcome. All that encourages electricity production, as well as this proposal for a law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, is absolutely certain that it is acceptable. Of course, if we're talking about it and environmental acceptance. Already, sparrows on the roof know that Croatia is the largest electricity importer in Europe. We import even a third of the electricity, and when a third of the total consumption is imported, the red light burns. In recent months, much time has been spent on discussions on renewable energy sources and in general on the construction of power plants. There is also talk about the need to reform the distribution system, which I think is unnecessary. In Croatia is the biggest problem, in fact problem number one production, not transmission of electricity. In the transfer of electricity to the world summit, because the transfer is losing only 2% of the energy, which is certainly very good compared to production. The bigger problem is the theft of electricity, but it is certainly another topic to deal with law enforcement. The problem in Croatia is also with the production of electricity, especially with renewable electricity sources. Here's the root of these problems. To produce electricity from alternative sources such as wind power plants is the most nervous arrangement and business engagement. Why? Because encouraging measures are more than good. For one megawatt hour, the manufacturer receives a boost of about 100 euros and the price of the same electricity on the stock market is 60 euros. The big problem and the treatment of the renewable electricity producer is, and that's the rule that's closer to the fire is better heated. When you decide to do electricity production from a vertro power plant or some source, the most important thing is to get a connection to the network and, of course, wind power plant licenses. It is no secret that in Croatia, a former HEP member could have been given a monopoly on the construction of wind power plants. He was close to the source or more precisely in the conflict of interest and set out to create an apparent business, and all of this happened while working in HEP as one of the key people. Was it hard for him to connect to the network? It's not. He was privileged, he knew how to do it, and as a powerful man of HEP, he made easy deals with local self-government. So now this once-in-a-lifetime HEP chief is producing almost a third of the electricity from wind power plants, which is the business of the century. The first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radimir Cacic, also spoke of it in time. And that's where Hoping would have had a really big job with me hoping that big business would do it. Because when the most profitable form of energy production gets a member of the HEP administration and sells electricity to that same HEP, it really stinks. This proposal for a law supplementing the Electricity Market Act brings only one amendment to the way in which the permits for buildings produced by electricity are granted is acceptable, provided that it does not continue with the old practice, and it reads: all those who are good with the powers of HEP or ministers or vice-presidents of the Government will be privileged. I hope that we will abandon this practice and often punish the conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8033	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is HDSSB and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8034	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. The HDSSB club will support this law because we believe it is facing ordinary citizens. However, I am surprised that this one law goes into emergency procedure so that suddenly the first and second reading goes, since it stands in this law, and precisely because of the speed and procedure, so that it is easier to get to certain permits, the minister will only be able to pass the rule within 60 days of the date of entry into force, and the rule will only regulate all the necessary relationships and practically and explain what these are simple structures which will not have to receive energy approval and will practically not have to go into the process of obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer. However, in order to talk about the Croatian electricity market as the law itself says the Electricity Market Act, we must be aware that we markets other than imports of electricity in Croatia do not have or are only in transitions or that electricity market is used when Croatia has excess electricity when it practically does not know what electricity will simply have to be delivered to neighbouring countries in order to avoid overloading the outdated network and thus not reducing this supply of electricity and not introducing certain advantages to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and paying fat and expensively. This law is therefore intended for authorised electricity producers and concerns mainly me, I would say alternative forms of electricity, not those we have known so far, but in this debate I want to touch the privileged electricity consumers who have actually been double-crossed in those past changes and additions to the Electricity Act. It is that, and everyone knows that those who lead these privileged producers in the form of legal entities, they were units of local self-government, municipalities, cities or cities of interest that through this form of privileged consumer through the very supply of or distribution of electricity, i.e. transmission and through electricity consumption, there was a 100% increase in electricity, which is most visible in public lighting, no matter how much they invest in it, in order to reduce consumption and, therefore, by means of one economic power management through European guidelines. There is another great illogicality that is right through the public procurement laws, which I have warned several times and here in the Croatian Parliament, which is what I would say to one rarity not only in the European Union but in the whole world, except in those countries, drug-republics or drug-monarchy that the electricity producer, in this case the Croatian electricity industry that appears to be a tender for the supply of electricity is significantly more expensive than some other companies that report for the supply of electricity through the distribution network owned by HEP. So far, no one in Croatia has explained publicly, I argue that if HEP, and there is no one else to deliver electricity to these companies, how this same Croatian electricity industry can be more expensive in these competitions than other companies. It's obviously a blurry business. And this is not the only problem, respecting the process of obtaining other types of energy and this is not the only problem in which Croatia's electricity is presently located today, which practically has a monopoly of electricity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which at this point, according to the new president of HEP administration, has 4,000 people who will not be fired, who will probably, through the purchase of internships or I don't know what else to achieve their rights and I have absolutely nothing against it. However, this same company, which is older than 2000 new young experts, and I hope that it will be really professional staff and that it will not be employed as it is employed by the governments of the Republic of Croatia, in agencies, since such a law was passed just over 50 days ago when it was made possible for both godfathers and brothers and sisters and I do not know who else to simply without professional training, without adequate knowledge to be employed in responsible places. In any case, the issue of restructuring of Croatia's electricity industry is also important, there is a completely outdated technology. Since hydroelectrics or hydroelectrics are on average more than 30 years old, except for these smaller ones, which are made on certain water streams, which are practically private and have little importance for electricity production are almost over 30 years old. It's also thermal power plants. The problem of Krsko nuclear power plant not to mention. But what is most important is that no renewable energy source, and I do not believe that any panel on the roof of the government, the Parliament, the ministries, on public institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia, a panel that will convert solar energy into electricity stands exactly on roofs owned by the Republic of Croatia, no wind or wind power plant is owned by the Republic of Croatia. No waste burning or any other form of renewable energy source, therefore no facility is owned by the Republic of Croatia, although this same Republic of Croatia would say that I would sometimes finance precisely the construction of such buildings. There is also a question of LNG terminals, etc., etc. and that we are only dealing with HEP is clear to me, therefore, given this thing which has led the new government to decide on the quotes of unfortunate purchases that have a heart attack on both the wallet, the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket, on the impact of the standard of citizens, and that all these problems which are related to the electricity market, this increase from 20% to 22% plus those related to electricity and the increase in gas, plus the suspended fee, will not, in any case, regulate the electricity market because it is evident that the state is actually the worst master. I don't mind that the state co-finances renewable electricity projects, but in the end, it can't happen that co-financing is purely private, and we've had opportunities to see that certain members of the Croatian Power Management have just come to the possibility of alternative power sources. And it's not all about electricity, since if we're the country that actually imports 1/3 of electricity, given that we're the country that's one of the richest water energy in Europe, we have really great opportunities for alternative energy. It would be best for Croatia and its Croatian citizens if it were just a problem of electricity. However, we still have some problems that are not just about the 25% VAT increase, etc. than we have another large company that also deals with energy this time in the current state, and many because Croatian electricity should be the driver of the economy. I believe that the INA oil industry, which is unfortunately no longer owned by the Republic of Croatia, should also be the driver of the Croatian economy. And then probably as a major distributor of another important energy in the Republic of Croatia, the gas would not have this gathering that hits the forehead of the citizens themselves. And I'll just remind you that regardless of who was sitting there and who would sit on that company's supervisory board in 2008 and 2009, that same company had one significant controversial criminal oil purchase on the world market where it lost almost a billion and a half kuna buying $140 barrels of oil, and then selling it at one average price of $40. The question is, was it a bad business decision? And if there are in this oil business and protection mechanisms, or if it was really a criminal action that a friend or Mr. Bajic who is here is very zealously doing his job for the new government. So, at the very end, we demand first of all that this Regulation be adopted in the shortest time period, because if it goes towards reducing and speeding up all procedures that then the minister does not need 60 days, because I do not believe that Minister Cacic or the first Deputy Prime Minister will write this Regulation but will do so by professional persons in the ministry so that I believe they only need 15 days since this Law is going by emergency procedure. So, given the reduction in procedures that will apply to simple buildings, which I consider to be family houses, we will support this Law. I hope that under simple structures we will not consider mini-nuclear power plants since we have experience in passing laws on an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8035	Thank you, too. The next club of representatives is the Social Democratic Party club of Croatia and the respected representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8036	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What to say about this Law except that it would be good, or these changes and additions, except that it would be good if we got it and that we got it a lot earlier. Here I am only going on a few tips on behalf of the club and on my own. Therefore, this law on amendments and amendments to the law would allow for a simplified acquisition of the status of a privileged producer for simple buildings. As we know, there are rules and regulations for the production of electricity from renewable sources of energy and cogeneration. Because we know that cogeneration is a process of simultaneous production of electricity and useful heat in a single process. Thus, efficient use of energy without, or with as little waste as possible, with as little loss as possible. In other words, this law would generally work in society to save energy, and I think that everyone, more or less, has always declared themselves. We should actually apply that now. This law would therefore allow producers who, in accordance with the regulation of spatial planning and construction, have simple structures that no longer have to be obliged to come up with a solution from the agencies, and the status of a privileged producer is acquired under the rules prescribed by the Minister. I have no doubt that, in fact, this whole process will be brought into line very quickly, and in addition to creating, that is, harmonising all possibilities in the investment of those. So, and I can't be much shorter to apply, which will work under this law and become small producers. So I wouldn't question the length of the regulation itself. This is a understandable course of regulation of the electricity market since we are obliged to have alternative electricity generation through different sources especially solar systems, possibly gas pumps and the like. So, and the wind. So, and all possible alternative sources that we can apply in the relevant areas in our country. I support this law and I think it must simplify energy production and increase its competitiveness with as many alternatives as possible. This may enable us, if not to cost our lives, and it at least stabilises prices but also prevents as much energy imports as possible of course. This is possible for those who can invest in the current investment of the installation of an alternative energy source. So investment isn't cheap, it's true, but it's long-term, so maybe it's medium-handly worth it. In addition to stimulating households for the production and use of alternative energy, it would also be necessary to make use of wider opportunities that go with energy consent, but should be more easily used and realised. After all, I think that the use of cogeneration should be particularly stimulated and stimulated because if it is effective then it affects the costs of normal energy to a far lesser extent. My experience from my unit of local self-government, and I believe from many others, so here's my unit of local self-government. There are about 272 sunny days. It's not a little bit, you know. Somewhere else there's a lot of wind. So we're wasteful if we don't use these potential sources of energy. Of course it costs, but like I said, it's worth it. We just need to see a few more options here, maybe one or two that I would recommend here, and so since it's very useful and very large resources. Of course, it would be very good to know how to fit in, say, local self-government units and, in general, that energy used as a general public good such as lighting or some similar forms of energy use that represent a very large cost, but of course, it may be easier and easier to use in this way, or energy for them can be used more easily. Of course, we always have to stick to what is possible and what we can somehow pay for because someone always has to pay for something. As a private small producer of electricity will have to pay for its plant, its ability, its panels and all its facilities so units of local self-government will have to pay for it because it pays, for example, the costs of lighting in its area. But you know, that's a big point. Those who run local self-government units know that well. There are others, there are others that influence the use of energy in what is used as a general, or public good and what benefits citizens, and it is paid through social political communities. I wouldn't even question the construction of small solar and wind power plants here, even though it's mostly solar power plants you know that's what you're going to see almost every house when you go through Lombardia or I don't know Bavaria or like this through Central Europe, and it's no problem that all the roofs are covered more or less, of course, and that such energy is produced for households. But here I'm asked another question. Therefore, this should not apply exclusively to households because if we are already talking to a series of laws on the promotion of a small economy and entrepreneurship very quickly we will be in a situation to say to some smaller plant for producing suitable services, say the hotel or I don't know other economic operators, and here we have limited production of these small electricity producers, we come into a situation that someone doesn't want to produce and be a small producer in order to pass it on to some third parties already wants to work exclusively for their own business and for their own economic potentials to employ as many people as possible, i.e. to create as much capital for themselves and society. It would be interesting, therefore, that, for example, if they were to engage even larger capacities, i.e. the possibilities for the needs of all those who, in terms of capacity installation in the use of alternative power plants as small producers, might have a slightly larger one, i will not say how much bigger because I am not the one who will determine, let's say solarly I will not show the field rather than something that looks like or a few wind plants, but this does not resell further knows how to go and how to return that current through an authorised distributor to the system, but it is not actually a producer of energy to third parties but would use exclusively for its own economic activities, i.e. for its own economic needs to develop its own economic branch that it deals. So, at this point, we're talking about electricity producers that don't have to and don't want to sell that energy to third parties, and they're using and making products as well as small households, but this time for efficient use and for economic activity. Maybe that would be here's some extra possibility of investing in entrepreneurs. Of course, like all others, all energy producers must produce and return it, i.e. put it into the system and withdraw it from the system in accordance with legal regulations and possibilities. I won't talk about the others here, and the bill is concrete and very simple. On behalf of the club, we support him, and I personally support him, and I think he's very late. Here, so much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8037	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation we have reported a correction of an incorrect quote and a respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So colleague Rilje said incorrectly that this law would allow significant energy savings. That's incorrect. This law should therefore make it possible to produce larger amounts of energy in which we are, which are also insufficient. But I will tell you colleague Rilje that those measures which took place on 1 May of this year are an increase in energy, gas and electricity prices and will save significant energy because many of our citizens do not have the opportunity to pay that high price so that it will neither help nor save at pulse prices etc. And to the Deputy Minister, I'd say it would be a good idea to consider getting some cheaper oil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8039	Thank you, too. This is what we've exhausted the list of registered clubs to discuss this bill. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. The first to discuss it was reported by the esteemed Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8040	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed deputy, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The current system of licenses for the installation of solar panels marks a particularly large number of permits now delivered in an amazing figure of 58 permits. You know, every effort aimed at reducing procedures and thus time and complications needed to achieve, for example. Simple projects to set solar panels on family houses and buildings should certainly be welcomed. ... that the electricity price is derived from solar panels from the price of electricity obtained from conventional sources and should be kept in a wider picture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the fact that small Croatia is very high on the scale of the largest... electricity in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The increased production of electricity from renewable sources therefore decreases primarily in the balance of payments deficits. No less important develops and knows how. It also enables small entrepreneurs and also persons engaged in other professions to engage in this business that certainly has a future. One Germany with a far worse geographical position has far greater investment per capita in solar energy than we do. By 2050, Denmark shall calculate that it will receive almost total electricity production from renewable sources. There are no experts and economists naive to waste money, they largely count that the payments of renewable energy investments will also be at the expense of technology exports. Some time ago, I found information that, say, Goldman Sachs bought over 4 million acres of desert land in Nevada that was suitable for setting up solar power plants. We all know that this case is not about altruists who want to invest solar energy out of love for renewable energy sources, but economic mags expect a clearly large profit. Lately, compared with increased investment, for example. The solar panels also record a drastic decline in the price of these panels. With market logic and the fact that technology is increasingly improving every day, further price declines should be expected. Therefore, Croatia must jump on that train as soon as possible. No less important for us representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the fact that increased investment in renewable energy sources reduces environmental and greenhouse gas emissions. Croatia has committed to increase the amount of energy produced from renewable sources and, unless the standards are met, it will also pay a considerable amount of foam. For this reason, we cannot look at the production of electricity from renewable sources only on the basis of a mere calculation invested and obtained on an individual project without looking at a wider picture. And this law is certainly a good step in that direction and everyone needs to support it. And I appeal and call for us to stop at not only that relief procedure, this should only be one step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8041	Thank you, Your Honor. We thus exhausted a list of registered representatives to discuss the duration of 10 minutes. We're going to the club debate for five minutes. The first one was registered by the HNS club and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8042	Dear Vice President, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Smaller integrated solar power plants are a policy priority, we can say solarisation of Croatia because it prevents the occupation of value space, reduces the cost of connection, reduces network losses and long-term connects production from solar power plants with consumption at the site. This will result in scattered distributed production, i.e. a large number of small solar power plants, privileged users of incentives for the production of electricity from renewable sources. Small solar power plants, unlike large solar power plants, significantly drive local value-added chains, which make these projects have a positive effect on local employment and overall improvement of local economic opportunities in terms of equipment production, designing, installation, maintenance where we have an additional possibility of more significant employment in the Republic of Croatia. So far, only a small number of such power plants have been realised in Croatia because of the complexity of the procedure and for all of the above reasons has been approached to review the process of obtaining the status of a privileged producer to small solar power plants in order to allow for their accelerated development. Currently prescribed, we can freely say the unwarranted procedures for obtaining the status of the privileged producer have been the development. Two steps to the permit, the first step to resolve the conditions of connection of the power plant to the power grid and the conditions of purchase of supplied electricity. And step two, prove the technical capacity of the solar power plant in the power grid and negotiate the conditions of the power plant on the network. Investment and investment, development, depending on the time in which it will be realized. This law speeds up the process, and the money invested gets added value. As a result of the simplified procedure that these laws will allow, and attractive preferential ransom prices are expected within the next few years to realise several thousand small, integrated, solar power plants in total value from the circus of 400 million kuna and a significant momentum for local entrepreneurial initiatives in the area. As a result, the HNS club supports this law, which is passed by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8043	Thank you, too. The next Club of Representatives, is SDP's club and respected representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8044	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few things I forgot to say, even though it's all kind of a little résumé. So here I see that there's a variety of thinking about it, calculated with prices, we've come to a variety of systems, we've talked about everything, and it's basically very simple. Electricity collection is essentially a matter of economic relations on the market and economic business of producers, distributors, or social use relations. But we can calculate as much of us as we will, the matter of wasteing useless energy waste or implementing it into an appropriate product or service is, in fact, what we would do and what all of us as legislators would have to work on, but all of the others who actually do so in particular and professionally. This means that every, every power generation should not, to the greatest extent possible, be scattered, and that is why it's cogeneration, so it's here that it's actually electricity, or electricity, or all the energy that's going to come from the alternative, whether it's solar, whether it's wind or otherwise, if God wants it to be possible by tide and tide, and they're doing it outside, somewhere else. Therefore, it will affect the price of energy consumption, and it provides opportunities for product prices and labour prices on the market. We'll have to come to that sooner or later, no matter how much we want or don't want to. Effective use of energy in fact, not waste, but actively implement it through a new value in a new product, a new service, or with correct use in society, cannot be fully used, but the fact is that it can be calculated, or used. And here we're actually talking about usability all the time. In other words, our old man would say, "Storage, but also active use, through production, production of new value." That's what we can talk about what's actually going to be the price regulator at the end of electricity. In fact, the regulator of electricity prices will not be what we will be for or against the law, but how and how we will effectively implement and produce and manage it on the electricity market, on the labour market and in fact on the common market with us, and we can no longer only see ourselves as a state, or in terms of energy, but in a global sense in the European market of electricity use. Because here we are, here we are, long ago buying it, unfortunately I hope we can sell it in the future, and here we are, hopefully as efficiently and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8045	Thank you, Your Honor. That's why we've exhausted the lists of people who've been registered to discuss clubs and advocates. Dear Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradovic, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8046	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short. I thank everyone for the constructive and positive debate on the proposals of this law because I think that what is in some way the essence of this proposal, which is the simplification and procedure, the reduction of the number of these intersteps and at all one relief in meeting citizens and all those who go towards simple structures, small cogenerations that want to achieve their goal, I think that we together contribute to achieving this goal with as little walking around the administration as possible a loss of time. And in that segment, I thank you for the debate that certainly contributed and paved the way for some new thoughts and ideas. We believe in the conclusion that citizens of this supplement and this simplification process will draw closer to the concept of energy itself as such and encourage them to be in some way active participants and in their daily lives with one such decision to be active participants in a generally global trend of energy policy, renewable energy sources, and of course through one single and responsible conduct and behaviour through this possibility. Finally, I would like to thank the Legislative Committee for the debate, on the suggestion of nomotechnical character which they have made on the proposal for a law which, if you allow this opportunity and accepted, is therefore an amendment to Article 2. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8047	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8048	We move to a statement on the final draft law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 85. The debate is closed. The proposer accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes of 92 votes in favour, 16 against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the Electricity Market Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8049	Let's move forward on the agenda. We move on to - Final bill on amendments to the Law on arms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 81 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on European Integration. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. This is Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8050	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, thank you, Mrs. Assembly MPs and MPs. The Arms Act No. 63/07. the 2008 correction, which was published in 18.6.2007, entered into force on 1.9.7. That law is in line with Council Directive 91477 EC on the control of the supply and holding of arms. The proposed amendments and amendments are in line with the amendment of Council Directive 91477 EC on the control of the supply and holding of weapons amended and supplemented by Directive 2008/51/EC. The most important amendments and additions to the applicable law to be proposed are the following, in accordance with the amendment to the Directive concerning the definition and performance of arms-related services, the concept of an arms-related intermediary has been added and the conditions laid down by the natural or legal person to carry out the operations, the intervention of arms-related services are laid down in Article 4. In order to comply with the European acquis, a new weapons instrument has been introduced, the European Armed Pass, which will facilitate the legal holders of arms movement in the EU Member States' field of Article 7. Subjects of special purpose integral silencers, silencers intended for weapons and parts for silencers are included in category A or prohibited weapons Article 5. In view of the dangers posed by certain types of weapons, air weapons and weapons with a real life tendon, air weapons whose kinetic energy is 10.5 joules or greater or the speed of a higher missile than 200 m/s and a caliber greater than 4.5 mm has been transferred from a lower category to a higher category within the meaning of the rights and obligations of the owner of the firearms of Article 5. The category of prohibited weapons includes the weapons of category C and D and when used for harassment and assault and injury. A provision has been deleted requiring the issue of a special authorisation for the supply of ammunition and allowing citizens to get ammunition while presenting a valid armed list. A physician shall be required to ensure that the person who has access to an emergency medical examination does not give assurance unless that person makes a decision to the competent authority on the reference to such examination. The same way that a doctor may inform the owner of a weapon has a change of health condition affecting the ability to hold a weapon is required for each owner to report within 180 days of the date of entry into force of this law to the police on their primary health care physician or to change their doctor. Police will be obliged to inform persons who have been issued an armed list in this selected primary healthcare physician. It is proposed to issue a permit for direct handling of firearms and persons under the age of 21, provided that that person is qualified to call a master rifle, since regular training for a master rifle takes three years, and that persons who finish regular schooling with an existing legal solution are not allowed to work in the profession before the 21 years of life of Article 35. The proposal for a law contains additional provisions relating to the field of testing and marking of firearms, given that that area was not sufficiently prescribed in the applicable law. It is proposed that the tasks of testing and marking firearms be carried out by a legal person designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and approved by the MUP. The conditions to be met by a legal person and the way in which the brand of firearms is examined and marked will be prescribed by the Home Affairs Minister. The issue of authorisation for the exercise of the citizens' training activities for the correct use of firearms has been regulated as that area has not been regulated by the Arms Act. It is prescribed that the training of citizens for the proper use of firearms may be carried out by institutions which have received the approval of the MUP for that activity prior to enrolment in the court register. the conditions for carrying out that activity will be prescribed by the Minister of the Interior. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional appropriations in the budget. It was a brief promotion of this proposed law. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8051	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonkovic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. Mr. Miroslav Tudjman on behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8052	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. At its meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the draft law, amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, with the final proposal of the law, as a parent working body. We heard a brief explanation of the proposing representatives by adding here that the proposer pointed out that this bill was already discussed in the first reading in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. A few points have been highlighted in the debate that followed on the board, and I would particularly like to highlight the following here. Regarding the question of testing and marking with the brand of firearms and the obligation of firearms owners to carry out the same until the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership, it has been indicated that this will result in additional costs for firearms owners. For this reason, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Minister of the Interior that, when drawing up the implementing acts referred to in Article 58(2). This bill allows the deadline for testing and marking of firearms for existing gun owners to be time-consistent with the validity of existing weapons sheets, meaning that the obligation to examine and mark firearms would expire until the existing weapons list is in force. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Arms Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8053	Thank you very much. Reporters from other committees, perhaps? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8054	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here's very short on this law and this is how I'm going to start. Five days ago in Peroje, a small settlement near Vodnjana, Fažana in which the indigenous Montenegrin community operates, was held. Okay, maybe Fažana and Vodnjan are better known for Peroje than the other way around, but let's let it go now. And now that the Croatian Hunting Union is talking about this Hunting Law or what it insists on? The Croatian Hunting Union will refer its proposal to the Bill of Weapons and will require that young people of 16 years be allowed to go hunting with adults and will try, secondly their request, when it comes to this law, to amend the legal decision on mandatory systematic inspection of hunters from every 5 every 10 years. I don't know if those demands have arrived at the D.A.'s office, but it might have been an opportunized proposal from our hunters to accept it. Why, because hunting must be a useful branch. Someone should protect the peasants mostly from this wild boar monster. Ten days ago, a friend ran into a wild pig, a 130-pound capitalist, and it's a good thing nothing happened to him. You just can't stop that monster, there are alves, and in a year it's been shot off in Buzet it's 78 throats and instead of being fed by those unsuspecting darkling hunters and nicely grown so that there are as many as possible. Someone will say that those of us who ask to protect us from these wild boars or stray bears are thugs, but between the efforts of the peasants and these wild boars it seems like we should choose the efforts of the peasants, between safety and stray bears, too, I guess. And once again, without hunters, it just doesn't work. The benefit of hunters is great for society as a whole and therefore should be supported by these suggestions for such a legal text. And what we should be dealing with is, among other things, the compensation of peasants for the damage of savages. We have a problem, clearly, the less the land is being processed, the cattle are no longer being fed, the worse in Cicaria almost no longer has a living soul, no one is processing anything and clearly wild animals descending south. But people and savages need to be chosen, so I would once again support the request of the Croatian Hunting Union. What is also interesting is on page 3 of this law where it is said that the part of the law that prescribes the entry and amount of arms and ammunition across the state border as a newspaper is proposed to limit the number of pieces of weapons and ammunition that Croatian citizens and foreigners can carry across the state border for hunting purposes. The applicable law does not prescribe such a restriction, and in practice cases of weapons abuse and smuggling have been observed. Clearly, smuggling should be prevented, on the other hand, for hunting tourism, for that one luxuriant under quotes of activity, for the enormous benefit of certain hunting societies should allow normal circulation of these weapons through border crossings, but also allow hunters the amount of hunting they are paying neatly. It is clear that the weapons, mainly after the last Homeland War, remain in the sheds, homes, that one entire army can be armed. It needs to be destroyed in some way, it needs to be kept possibly as a trophy weapon, it needs to be removed from the home without speaking from the street because we know what it often serves for. Perhaps the key to this law, as the Assistant Minister pointed out, is this article 4th Mediator in the Transport of Weapons. In the sense of this law, a company, a craftsman who has the approval of the Ministry of Interior to carry out the activities of arms intervention. And what's also interesting is how I realized this article 5. Moving these silencers or banning silencers. It is argued that due to the problems identified in the practice so far as necessary, the introduction into law and certain specific purposes such as silencers has also been demonstrated, given that no specific law is prescribed in any type of special equipment, or under what regime as regards the rights and obligations of the owner, including integral silencers, silencers intended for the weapons and parts of silencers, are already listed in the list of military use goods, which is an integral part of the Regulation, etc. which is imported, exported. One word absolutely forbids it. So, without a weapon, no society can, unfortunately, be that way, no society is ideal. No country can, neither can Croatia. The less headed he is on the street, the better it will be, and that's why every piece of gun or whatever it says needs to be subjected to one control and complete control. A law like that if for nothing, and then for the prohibition of these silencers, it should be supported. But I would really ask the representatives of the ministry to keep this in mind precisely these proposals of the Croatian Hunting Union to allow young people of 16 years of age to go on hunting with adults and to amend this decision on mandatory systematic inspection of hunters from every 5 to every 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8055	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8056	Well, I'd like to correct my esteemed colleague Cain, I see he was at the Assembly of the Croatian Hunting Union. Namely, he mentioned the unnamed. Well, then he could have learned from the hunters that it wasn't the aliens, it was the black savage. If he thinks of the wild boar there's a boar,... Pig. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sometimes they don't kill themselves, they shoot themselves, and they're obviously the best thing in a pot. So you don't call them no-one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8057	And you, Mr. Agent Vinkovic, have your word now as a representative of the HDSSB Club. Here you go. ... Representative of the HDSSB Club. [[You can't hear it.]] Did I say something wrong? It'll do in the name of the club, however you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8058	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representative of the Ministry of the Interior. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Weapons and whatever the so-called. European law, and so far we have had in practice the Croatian Parliament a series of laws that have been marked by this shortcut P.Z.E. Given that the last amendments were made in 2007 the observation of the HDSSB club was precisely on an emergency procedure since, therefore, there is also in this Law, I have to say a series of illogicalities and he should go first and then this Law should go along with the amendment of another law, which is exactly the law on criminal proceedings. I will also have an individual debate about this Law to be tied to the largest, so the association of citizens who is older than almost all the Laws on Arms in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and who, in any case, as one of the first to the normal Ministry of Interior, has been placed in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. It is about hunters and the Croatian Hunting Union. And what Mr. Cain didn't know was addressed and there was a correspondence between the Ministry of the Interior, because Mr. Cain obviously stayed on a hunting stew or a horse, possibly on a wild pig under the roast but he didn't hear and real though I must say that Istria has made far progress in me saying branding game products, so it didn't occur to them to call those products the unnamed products in order to say that to our esteemed representative Cain. But I'm not going to lecture here from the hunt itself, but I will first and foremost, and I hope this ministry adopts, that it will only propose certain amendments. Because first of all, this Law, regardless of what represents a step forward, unlike past amendments and the addition of the law, does not solve the whole problem. First of all, it concerns simplifying the process of verifying the owner of hunting weapons for the purchase of each new weapon, because first of all, there is a large administration which, regardless of whether it is an inheritance or a purchase of new weapons, often leads to an endless process of buying new weapons or inheriting old weapons. In every sense, it is necessary to fence the check on natural persons in the sense that this first check is going according to the existing law, and to reduce the procedure for the purchase of any further copy of the hunting weapon, i.e. where there is no such change in the criminal and criminal record, but the records relating to the use of firearms should be issued by the competent police authority, or the competent police station immediately. What Mr. Cain was saying is a person with 16 years of age who is a trainee in hunting societies, so not a person with 16 years of age who is in street gangs but who is either in a shooting society or in hunting societies, that is, a member of the Croatian Hunting Union to enable the release and use of certain weaker arms calibers accompanied by a normally older hunter. In neighbouring EU member states, a hunting card with a young hunter writing at the age of 16 is issued, and this is the so-called The "European" law has allowed us to pass a hunting exam. So, with this Arms Act, we should move to amend the Hunting Act. Then, what has become a monster lately, but has also given the police of the Republic of Croatia a lot of work, even though they are not enough, is precisely taking away hunting weapons for reasons that are sometimes also banal. Thus, two fans may argue at a football game, send each other to their native mother's or nephew's end, and therefore do not speak hate, but simply our Croatian way of treating that if neither two or three of them but a fifth, the sixth report it to the competent authority, or the police station, then the police themselves must confiscate the weapon from the one who participated in this one minor disturbance of public order and peace. Normally, if a firearm is used in this disturbance of public order and peace then it is not a disturbance of public order and peace but a criminal act and a criminal procedure. Given that, because I am not only going to hunting stew, I am also a member of the Croatian Hunting Union and so far this license has been a little too much in office. It has been valid for 10 years, and I don't see why the validity of one such card in which everything from a factory number, from a caliber, from a kind of rifle to a owner, a period of validity and a card that doesn't apply to you if you don't have this other hunting card with a paid membership fee, with a stamp in which you can go hunting, with no hunter more in the Republic area without these two documents letting anyone go hunting unless it's about certain political hunts that then have quite other connotations, and then individuals have to give resignations, etc. So without these two documents it's just impossible to go with so-called. hunting venues. And that is why the period of validity of these cards should be 10 years since the driver’s license also lasts for the management of motor vehicles and licences lasts a long time and even until 65. And since the aging process is accelerated in the Republic of Croatia, with small wages and small pensions in mind, so that those who drive these cars and motor vehicles at 65 years of age are far less and more efficient in managing these vehicles and ultimately pose a certain danger on the roads. So, not only for 25% VAT, but also for electricity, gas, bread, milk and everything that has accumulated from these measures that are promised a better life in the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to consider a way and very carefully and very carefully under which conditions people with PTSD diagnosis can retain their weapons for the purpose of rehabilitation in nature, therefore in the hunting grounds, given the positive experience of a large number of members who, until then, could participate in organised hunts and in one of the ways were in the social community and prevailed over these different forms of PTSD. Just to mention that comparisons work in one day, more people get hurt than hunting weapons all year round. However, no person with PTSD has been granted a driver's license, registration or vehicle book but has just been seized. Since there are therefore far more types of PTSD, we believe that this is also what the ministry needs to discuss and that this law should not have gone to first reading because of this kind of thing. There are also medical examinations, but more will be said by my colleague Đurović, than by what is in the eyes, therefore, since all these other and security services and all the services that have the right to hold and carry arms fall under other types of law not only under the Arms Act, and especially because you have to have these two documents without which you can neither hold nor carry a weapon, and let's be sure that those who now illegally have weapons that have seen and unseen citizens in the trunk or luggage, who rob banks that rob savings, mail, who kill on Croatian streets and cities in any case will neither legalise weapons nor bring these same firearms into the business of testing and branding, which will yet not be known to be the legal person to be designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which is responsible for the internal affairs to be approved. I'm just hoping it won't be the godfather's godfather's nephew party like that, but it'll be a state-owned company that will have that authority. And we at the HDSSB think that it's markings, an examination of a new impose on citizens especially those who have registered weapons have a license to carry and hold arms and that if the costs are determined to examine the branding of firearms, because be assured you're doing the MUP, so you know what the procedure is to get a legal weapon that isn't a little light, that it has to be a healthy person, that it has to get a medical conviction, that it has to bring all the documents that I don't say and pay those taxes, etc. It's least controversial, but right here because it represents a new intention, and since you have weapons identification and every weapon in this way and with this identification it's known that we don't see any reason why this same weapon, and this is also about historical values, it has even a museum value, we believe that if the state is already going to have to secure funds in the budget then so that I don't say extract funds from new and kunas or euros from citizens' pockets. This also applies to these consecutive medical examinations Thank you very much. [[Agreement: Thank you, counselor.]] Therefore, here is the final sentence, which is why when the law is passed by emergency procedure, but also because of all these remarks and problems that have not yet been resolved, we will be restrained. And we ask the Ministry to withdraw this law from the emergency procedure and simply since the Croatian Hunting Union also sent it to the 11th Minister of the Interior to read again about all these allegations. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8059	Thank you, too. Mr. Pedja Grbin's representative on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8060	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy. Before I engage in a debate on the very law of amendments and additions to the Arms Act, allow me to devote a few moments to the question of arms and the arms law itself. Cars in traffic and accidents may be more common due to the loss of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but this does not reduce the danger and death of weapons, and that is why we here in the Republic of Croatia, and given some experience that we have had in the last few years with weapons, we need to pay special and additional attention to the issue of arms and weapons problems. Personally, I think it's precisely because guns are being treated strictly, which is why the use of weapons requires a whole series of permits that it's precisely why the weapon is not so often the cause of injury in the Republic of Croatia. Col. Vinkovic may be right to say that this law does not concern the illegal use of weapons, but this is precisely the law by regulating the legal use of weapons that allows the police to deal systematically and properly and effectively with those who use weapons illegally. Also before the debate itself, I will remind you once again, although here today we are really discussing this law in an emergency procedure this is a de facto second reading of this law. I will remind the House in October last year also discussed the urgent procedure of this law at the time, and it was decided that the law would be sent back to the ministry for further processing, in particular to take into account those discussions and remarks that respected fellow MPs made about the debate at the time. As this is about the new assembly, we are not able to continue this reading, but for formal reasons only we are conducting an emergency procedure, or we are uniting the first and second reading, even though this is de facto about the second reading of the law. But here's to going back to the very proposal to amend and supplement the law. First of all, this is about the harmonisation of the law with EU rules and, as has been said with Council Directive 477 of '91. the year on the control of the supply and holding of weapons which has been amended by Directive 51 of 2008. Therefore, that Directive defines the conduct of arms intervention operations. So it's about a new person who's involved in the trafficking of persons, who's different from the arms manufacturer and arms dealer. So, given our obligations to join the EU, we are obliged to install this directive into Croatian legislation. However, what is much more important than the installation of this directive is the fact that this is about a law which is the result of the application or assessment of the impact of the application of current rules. Therefore, on the basis of the experience that the MUP has had with the application of the current Arms Act, it is proposed to amend or supplement certain items which have proved to be insufficient in practice. It is undeniable that the application of the 2007 Arms Act itself has made a contribution or increased the security of our citizens, however, does not mean that if we find that something is wrong, we do not need to correct it. We consider such provisions a need for a prominent issue of authorisation to carry out the activities of training citizens for the correct use of firearms. It is an activity that I personally consider important, which has never been regulated by the Arms Act. By this one correction, we allow such an addition to this one to further educate our citizens through persons who will be licensed by the MUP, or further training in the use of firearms to further reduce accidents or the adverse consequences of handling those weapons. The amendment and supplementation also regulates or simplifies the procedure for the supply of ammunition and is consistent with the provisions of the Explosive Things Act. It is also proposed that the tasks of testing and marking the brand of firearms be carried out by a legal person designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and whose competent ministry to grant authorisation for work. It limits the number of weapons and ammunition that can be transported across the state border, regulates the issue of arms dealing after the death of its owner, the health capacity of the person holding the weapon, etc., I will not repeat it because the esteemed deputy has explained it in detail. In short, these amendments to our legislation are incorporated into the European Union directives, but as I have already said, what is competent, or those applying it, which apply the law, are being built on to be amended. Because of the above, and because of the fact that this law has already had the first reading of us from the SDP Club, we support the adoption of this law and it is precisely in this proposed emergency procedure. And to end, as well as colleagues who spoke before me, I will be free to show myself about the remarks that we all as advocates have received on our benches, and this is about the observations of the Hunting Union. However, unlike the colleagues who spoke before me, I cannot support these remarks. First of all, the Hunting Union was involved in the making of this law. In cooperation with the ministry their observations that were acceptable, which were possible, which were realistic and correct and were incorporated into this bill. But those remarks that go in order to make underage persons, even if limited, even with the supervision of adults, allow us to use and carry weapons, are not acceptable, and that is why we think that the observations of the Hunting Union should not be respected. Once again, we from the SDP club support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8061	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Mandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8062	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS certainly supports the adoption of such a law that should primarily allow for greater security of citizens in the matter of carrying and holding arms. This law should simplify certain procedures, be more economical and be more competitive in terms of continental tourism or hunting tourism. What I would point out at the beginning in front of the HNS Club, is that this law primarily refers to the part of the citizens who have registered weapons. It's somewhere around 380 thousand registered weapons, and when we add to it the fact that 95% of the crime with weapons happens with weapons held illegally then we see that this law is primarily, I may be using an expression that may not be the most appropriate, repressive relationship to those legally owned by that weapon. So in my opinion, surely this gun possession law will lead to a much more unfavourable situation and those citizens who possess weapons illegally. What is also important to note is that this law has certain newspapers and improvements in relation to the previous law. This is a question in Articles 48 and 10 where it is strictly stated that the competent authority for the registration of weapons and for the receipt of an armed list informs the general practice physician to whom that weapon has been issued. I consider this to be a very important and important provision and that these articles even regulate the issue of changes in the health status of the gun-holder himself that the doctor is obliged to notify the competent authority of health changes without delay. In all these measures and legislation, we at the HNS club have the greatest support for such legal solutions because we believe that such legal solutions significantly improve the quality and safety of our citizens compared to those who possess weapons. I would also like to mention one more thing that we may have forgotten, given that in the Republic of Croatia there is at least double the number of weapons held illegally and that special attention is given to such laws and other laws that regulate the issue of criminal law, that such illegal weapons should also be regulated because I consider it to be a much greater danger. In not so long ago, Croatia had different actions on the return of weapons or good-bye weapons, I think we still need to work on the awareness of citizens and that such a weapon returns to safety as much as possible. What comes from police stations is also one congestion with records and procedures and questions about the disposal of the seized weapon. This weapon is being put off under inadequate conditions and inadequate warehouses, and I think that this procedure should also be simplified to remove such weapons as soon as possible because police stations have become a warehouse of actually seized weapons. I think there's got to be more work to do on that part, too. What we welcome in the HNS Club, that certain legal provisions have been in favour of foreign hunters coming to the hunting grounds of the Republic of Croatia because we consider it to be an interesting economic branch, to make it easier for these people who come with money to cross the Croatian border by the time we are part of the EU. Also, as a HNS club, we go in favour of those colleagues who debated in front of their clubs to make decisions on the purchase of first weapons even more restrictive, and in the case of hunters, the procedure is much simpler. Because even in the second application for the purchase of the next weapon, the procedure is very rigid and very rigorous so that hunters have the inconvenience of coming to their neighbors to ask what it is like, etc. How long has it been since the one who owns the permit so far and who has sinned about the law must surely apply rigorous measures. We also think that this provision, a legal provision that speaks about the validity of a medical examination of five years, is considered to be quite rigid and that, by regulation in Articles 48 and 10, we think that it is well regulated that each change is, the information comes to the competent authority and we suggest that this legislative provision be of ten years. As for the rest of the parts, the HNS club supports this proposal, but we would like to ask the promoter to clarify these circumstances regarding the purchase of the following firearms, hunting weapons primarily as well as medical examinations that you are certainly trying to demonstrate yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8063	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8064	Thank you. He would correct, in my opinion, Mr Mandic's incorrect claim that the introduction of the provision would, that doctors of primary health care should be informed, i.e. the establishment of the obligation of a person with an armed list, to report to the police on who his primary healthcare doctor is to contribute to the safety of carrying arms. Doctors of primary health care shall in no way participate in the process of establishing the ability to carry arms, i.e. in the award of the gun list, for the sake of medical work. So we think, in fact, that this is a restrictive provision that needs to be removed from what we have brought with the amendment, we have submitted an amendment in this regard because of the medical work involved. In some ways, human rights are at stake here, because why should the police have insight into who is the primary health care physician? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8065	... Infringement of the Rules of Procedure,... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Yeah, I know, I know, but we're going to have a first-reading Rules of Procedure in no time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I hope that after the first reading of the Rules of Procedure, we will be ourselves restrictive against these attempts. Mr. Djurovic, I'm really wondering what you've been up to, but here we go. That's what you think. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You see, these are different interpretations now. But, well, I think we'll be tolerated only at the expense of always the one who's been denied on the other side, you know that yourself. So please, if it's possible for us to be as precise as possible when we correct someone's exposure, in a way that we really want to correct some fact, some claim because it's actually a correction of an incorrect assumption, or it should be. Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first word is Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8066	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8067	Excuse me. Just to inform my colleagues and fellow MPs, here you can see that we're getting a little overheated by the current, in fact, in the grid of this lottery, we're out of power, so now we're connected to the aggregate, it's going to, that buzzing is going to take about ten more minutes. It's not the first time, but it's better if the power was overheated than if we were overheated. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8068	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, we don't need any technique. So, dear Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, allow me a few words about this bill. So, by reading this legislative proposal, and as I have realized it, it is in fact the correcting of the lack of already existing law, so the correction of errors and elements that have not been implemented well in practice but the existing law that has been passed, if I am not wrong in 2007, and the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. So, if this is about harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, I am pleased to say that there is always a consensus in this House about it, so it was never a problem to vote such laws in the Croatian Parliament. So what's important to mention, what I think is important to say is that the intention of this law is to make the existing system more effective and to protect the citizens. And I especially stress it to protect the citizens. Also, when we talk about the lack of laws, the Honorable Deputy Minister also said something about it, so what I would like to point out is the regulation on the succession of weapons, i.e. the availability with the same after the death of the owner, i.e. on the basis of requests for registration of the weapons with the basis of succession. Thus, different illogicalities and shortcomings in the law that occurred in that segment. So what I pointed out at the beginning, protecting citizens is what I think is most important in this law and it's from more aspects. First of all, the protection of citizens from other people who possess weapons, as well as the protection and protection of those who possess them. So, first of all, I welcome the new legal provisions regarding the scientific ability to hold and carry weapons, i.e. identifying and reviewing them. So it will no longer happen that certain citizens possess weapons based on invalid medical beliefs. Also, I welcome the provisions on the protection of police officers in the confiscation of weapons, so there is no fatality or injury of police officers in the handling of weapons that are not correct or not stored properly, so it belongs to the risk category of weapons. My colleague Cain mentioned silencers, and I would refer to maybe another category, so I certainly agree with that as regards the silencer as a special category of additional equipment for weapons, but so keeping certain types of air weapons is also important because some categories of air weapons so far have not been, have been placed in a lower category of weapons, but can also be murderous, and can also cause serious physical injuries. A lot has been mentioned today by the Croatian Hunting Union, I would just like to point out that certain observations of the Hunting Union are also respected, which is therefore an observation about the rental of weapons. Since Croatia is a tourist country and we want to promote our tourism, therefore not only tourism in the Primorje and the sea, so at sea, islands and so on, but also that continental type, as well as hunting tourism that I believe has a future. Therefore, the introduction of the possibility of the Croatian Hunting Union renting weapons to foreigners who had previously issued a card, i.e. registered with the Croatian Hunting Union. I believe that's a good thing, because it allows foreigners to not have to carry their weapons into the Republic of Croatia, so to import it from abroad and thus avoid certain customs and legal gaps. So this is a much simpler way to reach weapons and participate in your favorite sport in the Republic of Croatia. It is also important to regulate the labelling, i.e. the identification and monitoring of weapons, since it is one of the requirements that the EU puts before us, especially because Croatia has arms manufacturers so that I believe that the collapsing of Croatian products, in this case the weapons produced in the Republic of Croatia will be made easier on the territory of the EU. So, as the proposer mentioned in the draft law, the implementation of this law will not require any additional costs, so it will not require additional funding from the budget, harmonizes our legislation with EU regulations and promotes the protection of citizens. I therefore believe that this law should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8069	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8070	Thank you very much. I'll try a few sentences to explain my position on the proposal, but I'll try to say something that I think might have been an opportunity to make. So when we talk in Croatia about weapons, i.e. regulation and normising the question of everything that relates to weapons, we must have some things in mind. For a simple reason, because if we have these things in mind, then any change and addition should have those things in mind and go that way. So Croatia is a little specific with some other countries in the region since there are a lot of unregistered weapons in Croatia, illegal weapons. Otherwise, I personally hold that the weapon is evil. Usually people tell you who are supporters of weapons that guns in themselves are not evil but that they are actually people. But I think weapons are a specific tool and a product of humanity, which, in my opinion, is evil in itself. My colleagues also mentioned cars, etc., I think comparing weapons to a car that has become a need today is a little funny. Well, then, here's the question I'm asking right now. Today, when you buy a car you have to pay taxes on it, when you buy a car you have to secure it and you have to register it every year, and here are my suggestions for thinking – let's introduce a tax on weapons. It's one of the gains of civilization, of humanity, of culture where we actually show our relationship to weapons. So, I'd like to have this law opened up and some more topics and issues in view of a large number of illegal weapons because, in my view, it is part of the problem and the legal weapon, and we need to coordinate and bring it into order, but I don't think we've done enough about illegal weapons. A colleague from the HNS mentioned those actions we had from 2000 to 2003, and a little later, the guy "Goodbye to the weapons," so when the guns were burned in the high furnaces, when we were paying the guns to the citizens. So we let them in a certain way we took one period of time, so we said, "Come on, now the law doesn't apply," "who has an illegal weapon can hand him over, even those weapons that can't be registered, and then we even paid for it." I remember that we then had calls in various countries not only of the region but even of Africa, but of the experts of the MUP going to talk about this action under the auspices of the UN that this disarmament should be carried out after the war's deaths. In fact, it seems to me that in the past eight years, the whole story of the MUP functioning and the repressive part of the MUP, which is the vast majority of the MUP, is therefore police, is one important thing forgotten, which is prevention. Prevention as a model that actually saves money and prevents the number of crimes. Well, then that applies to this part of the gun. We often hear guns talking about hunters, about athletes, about recreationals, about official people who have guns. I don't think any of these groups and not even the officials who have guns should be treated specifically. Why? Whether it's a hunter or a cop or a recreational, it's all people, and it's all people who are under daily stress, certain psychological, psychological changes, pressures, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, I'm not picking it up right now, and that's why it's inadmissible for me. So I'm going back to the hunters. Why? I think it is inadmissible that hunters as one of the most significant and most interesting associations in this country and then also interested politicians and from a political aspect de facto have always had a particular impact on the adoption of the Arms Act. Why am I saying that? In fact, I think those who use weapons most should have the least impact on the adoption of the Arms Act. So you're reading from this that I'm not in favor of a liberal approach around weapons, weapons possession, especially carrying weapons. In addition to all these efforts that have been made in recent years in terms of legislation and bringing into some kind of close relationship or in agreement with European legislation, I still don't think we have made a sufficient step. I think yet our spirit of our law does not treat possession and possession of weapons as an exception, and in order for the spirit of this law to be a European law he must therefore treat weapons as an exception. Our law still treats weapons as a rule. I can see that there are increased sentences, and as far as I'm concerned, they could be even bigger. Maybe there's an exception about a weapon that I'd advocate being treated specifically, and that's a trophy weapon. A trophy weapon that has sentimental value, which can easily and incapacitate itself to be deadly. That might be the only thing I'd have a special relationship with, not everything else. Now it seems to me, I don't know if I read it right here, that this law makes it easier to get ammunition? Let's just say I'm not happy about that solution. Because in order to be able to shoot, you have to have ammunition, and if the ammunition gets easier, it might be able to shoot more, I don't know. I think that's it. And another thing, the practice that we've been doing lately not only in this segment, but also more and more prone to say, is the question of transferring a certain portion, let's call it that, public powers to private persons, that is, companies, etc. I don't know how smart it is to be out of the state system if we're already introducing that brand which I think is a good thing that this job is delegated to some legal person, or some company, I don't know what company it's going to be and how it's going to be chosen. I suppose the government will choose, or yes, it will be elected by the government. But I don't see why it wouldn't be at least when it comes to weapons that are just about to come for sale why don't the manufacturers tie themselves to that story in a certain way so let's pay for that difference that needs to be paid in relation to the value of the weapon and that stamp. So, let me get this straight. If we're talking about guns, here's my proposal. Let's seriously consider introducing a tax on arms. So, just about the registration, and I end up here, and so the checks, and all that stuff together, I think the state picks up somewhere close to 15 billion a year for guns. We then calculated in the MUP and there was little less money then, when part of that money or all that money would go in the direction of buying weapons, illegal weapons from citizens, so that every year almost 10,000 pieces of weapons could be bought at market price, and more and more different. So let's actually try to build some new relationship to the weapon. Let's actually try to build that legislative part in the sense that the real spirit of this law or, let's say, the future one that's really going to be on this subject is going to be treated as an exception and not as a rule. And let's not really, no, I don't get it. Now I'm going back to the hunters. It's not clear to me how hunters have now sent these changes, because I know that the Hunting Union has been involved in the story of making this law ever since. So, I think maybe we should start taking it a little more seriously. The colleagues there said that between 95% and 98% of all crimes in Croatia armed with illegal weapons happened. There's one more piece of information. So more than 60% of suicides with firearms also happen with illegal weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8071	Thank you very much. Here's just that because of the already registered speakers, and there are three behind Mr. Representative Lucin's we have four replicas, so when the replicas are finished, we'll probably respond to the replicas then we'll have a break, and we'll continue at 15.00 hours. Please, first of all, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic appeared in the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8072	I see that it is zero and 19 on these official watches in the Croatian Parliament. Here's my distinguished colleague Lucin, so I'm going to start with this last one when you said there's a gun tax to be introduced, so I'm asking you if this government can do anything but introduce new taxes, taxes to citizens. Taxes, taxes, taxes. Well, that reminds me of when we were still in the same party when we were yelling at a roaring paradise, a harbinger. Apparently this government introduces a series of harrases from VAT to electricity, gas, fuel for everything else, and now it would also tax on weapons. This tax, i.e. value added tax, was paid on each purchase of a new weapon. And as for questions, testing and marking with a brand of firearms, I can see that you are concerned too, because that public authority could turn into private hands. For example, this company could be exclusively based in Zagreb, so all Croatian citizens who paid those taxes on the purchase of weapons, all who were already registered at the Ministry of Interior, will have to pay taxes to come to Zagreb for such weapons to be branded. This isn't about, even horses aren't brought to Zagreb just to be branded. Fortunately, I guess we'll get a state bachelor and give her her legal personality back. But I'm saying that first of all, this law is not aimed at certain categories, but it should be directed towards all citizens. This Law also damaged not only hunters, and here is a memo sent to Mr. Ranko Ostojić, who was signed by the President of the Croatian Hunting Union and has no answer yet. On the other hand, there are winners of Olympic medals who will also have to come to Zagreb to mark their weapons for the Olympic winner in order not to commit suicide or kill someone else, and they will have to go for a medical examination every five years because who knows what might come to his mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8073	30 seconds you've passed the time. No, everything's fine, I'm just telling you. Mr. Representative Shime Luchin, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8074	Thank you. Well, it's very short. I'm not worried about anything, but when it comes to taxes, you gave me an idea, because you compared the car with the gun. Then I remembered, so if my colleague Vinkovic advocates that the car is being treated like a weapon then we'll go to the end even the insurance every year for the gun and we pay for the gun. That's a great idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8075	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8076	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Lucin, this debate has so far shown that this is where you really think about how to give doctors a new job, a new burden to work with all these control jobs, my God. But let's let it go now. It was said of course and you specifically talked about hunting and hunters and that's fine. They're hunters, they have their own special place, but as soon as I want to tell them here that one very important area is forgotten, one group of people and these are farmers. And my colleague Cain, in that sense, spoke in my area, in my field of wild boars doing immense damage to farmers. In these circumstances, when farmers, therefore, lost their right to support, when prices went up, when all the difficulties were immeasurable and, therefore, wild pigs do great damage and we tried through our associations of wartimers, cattlemen, etc. refer to the Ministry of Agriculture. In no way have we received any help to help in this regard. Without further ado, we appreciate hunting and anything to make this hunting economic base and shoot it up in some way. You understand? In that part, I believe that when accessing something, that this segment must, too, be kept in mind that these farmers are in a very difficult situation and that certain steps should certainly be taken and in that sense that one part of our population does not seem so bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8077	Thank you very much. Replication response, here you go, Mr. Representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8078	Well, I don't see a problem here. I'll give it to you, it just gets rid of it. So, I'm not up for it if the wild boars are coming down on some agricultural land to arm all the peasants now and they're killing pigs. No, if with that land with that orange, that field, it borders some kind of hunting ground, and some kind of x,y owns that hunting ground, here you go and pay for the damage. Otherwise, I'd like to talk a little bit about hunting, so let's talk a little bit about... and how much use the countries and citizens in whose area these hunting grounds are benefiting. So I suggest we not arm the peasants but punish those who are responsible for their pigs fleeing the yard.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8079	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8080	Thank you. I'm not a hunter, I'm not a hunter, I'm not a hunter, I'm not a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter, I'm a hunter. The wolves eat sheep all over the Dalmatian mountain, on the islands, on the face, the wild boars run into the car. If someone drives between two cities, they'll notice that they're always flying handcuffs in front of your car, rabbits. Apparently, those hunters are getting smaller and smaller. I really don't know how many there are but obviously there are fewer, too few or those provisions are so rigorous that they have nothing to hunt. So I think now I'm going to go further to this hunt I don't really know, or they're simply forbidden to hunt, so I guess they can never hunt again, I don't know what's going on with these hunters, but it's all a lot of wild animals. As far as the arms tax is concerned, I would agree with my colleague Vinkovic, there is nothing this government has not taxed. And if what is truly harmful to humans, let's tax the fat, and let's go to the end. If there's anything that's harmful to humans, it's the thickness. That's one big public health problem. And let's start with this Parliament, everything that has an index of over 1.25 overpriced everything taxed. And we go first. Or I don't know baldness, I mean, I don't know where we're gonna stop to refer to myself anymore. Well, we've got to stop somewhere else. This people, these people can no longer endure the story of taxing on constant pressure, these people can no longer endure it. There's got to be a stop to that story somewhere. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8081	Thank you. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8082	Thank you very much. So let's say we tax the fat I'm the first one to raise a hand for it. So, my colleague, here's what you'd like to suggest. But then when you propose a fat tax, I would also like to suggest a tax on stupidity, so we can agree which one will be bigger. However, the question of whether or not we should arm or disarm the citizens, you and I will never agree. Obviously from everything you're saying you think every citizen must have at least some kind of gun at home if not a couple of carabins and a couple of shotguns. I don't think so. I hold as I have heard that you have listened to me carefully that the weapon is evil, in itself. It might seem strange to you. And all I said afterwards was I condescendingly what I pulled out of that thesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8083	It is time to report a debate on the follow-up of this point. And Mr. Representative Dinko Buric has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8084	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a good thing there's this replica institute really and it's better than the institute correcting an incorrect quote and I look forward to it disappearing. However, you said colleague Lucin, those who most use weapons should have the slightest impact on the adoption of the Arms Act. I really don't know if you're aware of what you said? It's like saying that doctors who apply their medical skills have the least right to discuss when the Law amending the Health Protection Act is passed. Those who use the most weapons, so that's our police, I won't talk about the military, and these are various shooting associations. So who else should talk about this subject rather than those who really are the most concerned and who are, I am not a hunter like my colleague said, but allow for the right of those whose law really affects them to have the right to say what they think about the bill. If we have respected the opinions of various associations in the first reading that I do not know, apart from some of whom this really concerned, whether they should have been advertised especially by those about same-sex marriages, we give them the right to debate, and those to whom this concerns are not given the right. I'll just finish it. Tax, you're really exaggerating the ruling majority. It is not enough to introduce a tax on stupidity as you said, rather I would say that you are able to introduce a tax on common sense, a tax on criticism of everything that is wrong, so I would not be surprised at the end of the day to introduce both taxes to Croatian citizens and air that inhale.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8085	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8086	Thank you very much. So it's a restrictive approach, that's what I'm talking about. So with that logic of yours that's the logic or the logic of the mirror, I could say it like this. Whom the Penal Code refers to, mostly criminals. Does that mean criminals should write the law? I could draw it out for you right now, but okay, you took it the way you took it and you interpreted it that way. Now, you see, if you think it's a good idea for Croatian citizens to wave guns around, shoot at neighbors, shoot at what instead of putting it under good control, and the only way to do that is because it's a repressive approach, so I'm talking about it, not liberal, I think we should limit the use and right to own a weapon. Because if I have a weapon, then it's in my best interest that the law is more liberal, that I don't pay, that I don't carry a gun to control, that I can carry it with me when I go out to the bar for a drink. Therefore, one who owns weapons by me should have a minimal impact on the making of laws because it is a repressive approach, that is, if you want even a conservative approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8087	Thank you very much. Can we finish then? You insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? Mr. President Buric, I warn you, I will apply the strict Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Buric: Yes, yes.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8088	Now I'm going to apply a new institute. I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure because my colleague Lucin doesn't deserve me to fix something I didn't say. Comrade Lucin, it would be very good if you didn't twist your words. At no point did I talk about protecting criminals. What you're doing in the mirror system, I think it speaks very well of you. I gave up on the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8089	You've given up your breach of the Rules of Procedure by answering your word without having the right to answer your word. You have again committed an abuse, but I suggest you, Mr. Buric, that you sit down with Agent Lucino and talk now. Thank you. We continue at 3:00, and I have to inform you because we can only do this manually, the ladders, climb up to the part that regulates the clock, and then by manual processing when we get back, the time will be right. That's the answer to Agent Vinkovic because I see he protested. I thought he knew it was connected to the power problem. Thank you. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8090	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. The individual debate was reported by distinguished representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons is harmonising Croatian regulations with the European acquis, and thus we get better and better quality law in Croatia. The harmonisation of the said Arms Act is another of the permanent evidence of the regularity of the decision by Croatian citizens to vote in a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union. I am sorry that these amendments to the law have not been more radically amended and that we have not more radically determined our position towards holding arms. In fact, as individuals and individuals, we united in the decision that we wanted a state and we gave it the task to protect us from ourselves and from possible threats outside the country. That's why we gave the state the right but also the obligation to establish repressive military and police apparatus. Except for these state-owned repressive apparatus, I'm sure they have the only right to possess, carry and manipulate weapons. No individual has any reason nor the right to possess nor to bear or manipulate a weapon or to any purpose with the exception of hunters with exclusively prescribed hunting weapons, but that is the subject which one other law solves. Those persons whose job is related to special circumstances, special safety and life-threatening. No one in the civil sphere is allowed to have a weapon and no one is allowed to sell weapons without the state's approval through the Ministry of the Interior. A weapon unless it's an antique art collection has absolutely no purpose until a clear statement of security threats. Weapon in the civil sphere, unless it's an exhibition exhibit, it's modern guns, guns, guns, etc. There's only one purpose, and it's a threat to safety. Any piece of weapons and ammunition that exists in the country, whether produced or imported in it or transited, must be registered and monitored by the State or the Ministry of the Interior. The State is obliged to monitor each piece of arms with special attention, and according to the final proposal in question, the law amending and supplementing the Arms Act is obliged to carry out arms and to mark them with adequate stamps. The proposed amendments to the Arms Act further regulate the control of the manipulation of the supply of weapons, and regulate the way in which the use of weapons is educated. This also limits the purchase and use of weapons more strongly, and it comes down to the frameworks that reduce the threat of individuals holding arms against other individuals in a country that... He owns it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My personal view is that the state must fully address any threat in this sense where some individuals, by owning weapons, are a real threat to other individuals who do not have weapons. This creates a completely unnatural, unsightly and impossible relationship between the threat, intimidation and the endangerment of life for reasons still incomprehensible to me by the state's incomprehensible relationship with the arms broker. The possession of weapons by one family member is a practical violence against other family members who do not possess weapons as one of the examples. Only by learning that another person owns weapons, and even without the real threat or public display of power with weapons is really violence and it is unacceptable in modern society. Persons who possess or carry weapons, except medical and psychological examination and authorisation, must undergo professional training for the proper use of weapons. We citizens and citizens have handed over the monopoly of the state over the repression and we expect it with the right and we rightly demand that it protect us from all possible threats. One of the modern threats is possession, carrying the use of weapons by other individuals and individuals. By doing so, no one but the official who protects our safety should own or carry weapons. Everything else is contrary to the meaning of the role of the state, the possession of weapons by some puts others in danger to life, an unequal position. This inaccessible endangers the safety of citizens, endangers human rights and simply does not and cannot feel free. I would also recommend to the ministry, or the interior minister, that certain violations of the law be transformed into criminal acts, as it could also increase the security of citizens by tightening the criminal provisions. As an example, I will quote Article 91. A proposal for a gun law. The proposed amendments to the Arms Act are, in any case, progress in the control of ownership, carrying, use, manipulation, trade and manufacture of weapons. It is not important to note that the proposed amendments and additions of the Law on Arms The Republic of Croatia is running for prestigious membership in the permanent International Commission for the Study of Light Weapons... However, it is obvious that the day has not yet arrived of a complete ban on weapons possession by any private person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I regret and get into the future smarter generations. I guess one day the weapon will disappear completely from use in any form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8092	On this exhibit we have one replica, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8093	You see, dear colleague, I have permission to hold and carry arms, and I personally don't consider myself a threat to you or anyone here in the House. If I'm a threat then I advise you to invite some bodyguards to keep you from me. I don't carry arms with me except for hunting, but in any case, I don't consider myself a threat so I don't agree with this exposure where every person who owns a weapon is a threat to others. I'm going back to these hunters eventually. I believe that somewhere in the early 1990s, when we had that great Serb Chettian aggression against the Republic of Croatia if it hadn't been for those, among other hunters and at the beginning of the Ministry of Interior after the National Guard Assembly, after that robbery of the territorial defense weapons, probably today neither you nor I would have sat in this House because the gologuse would have gone to those tanks and to that great Serb aggression. So neither then nor now the people who own a registered weapon are a threat to someone else. The threat is those who own unregistered weapons, which, as I have already said, rob banks, kill in the streets, kidnap people, etc. At least they're the ones who deal with top-notch sports, hunters and the ones the police know they own the same weapon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8094	Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8095	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to say that I was talking about principles, and if you're a threat some others probably know. You're not and I don't see you as a threat, but in principle I think anyone who stands up to me has a weapon, and I don't have a weapon he is to me and a threat unless he's an official person. As far as what you're talking about, I've kept that hunt away from the hunters, and I think this hunting and hunting problem should be dealt with by another law, not just by the Arms Act. Because this Arms Act refers to possession, manipulation, purchase, transfer, transit, etc. And I'm not a hunter, and I'm opposed to hunting because I think it's an inhuman activity, but it's a life view that I disagree with you. So it's a whole other element and we'll be able to talk more about it when the Hunting Act comes. I'm 100% convinced that the only person allowed to have a weapon is a state, and that's why the state exists to regulate that kind of relationship instead of us. And guns only as such have no other purpose than shooting or if it's cold cutting. The weapon by its own definition is something that threatens other people's lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8096	Thank you very much. ... A colleague of Vinkovic's, so you know there's no such thing, throwing it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That it's at least rude. My colleague Zlatko Komadin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8097	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues I apologize in advance if it is regulated, and I did not see this law one situation that happened to me personally with these weapons, not because I love guns than my parents died, so I was left with the inheritance because my father was a hunter and now let's not destroy what the trophy says then I passed a hunting test, I never did hunt or love hunting, I prefer fishing it's so little more humane than Mr. Dr. Blazekovic says in warm-blooded beings shoot, right? But there's one situation, and then the law allowed you to have a user of weapons on your gun list because I had a situation that my father-in-law was a hunter, so I gave him these guns to use. The current law does not make it possible but only the owner is connected to the weapon and I don't think it's quite even economically justified, you can have a father, a son, a brother who's all hunters why should each of them have their own hunting rifle? So I'd like to ask the promoter if he means to regulate it or say I apologize if it's accidentally regulated in this text.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8098	Thank you very much. Next in line for the debate is distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8099	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. Well, part of these discussions that were somehow more secular and about our relationship to weapons, about our attitude towards weapons than about the very law that lies before us. Well, then let me say a part, too, to look at that attitude in general about the weapon. Well, I think weapons are part of our history and present, and they'll be part of the future. The Croatian people and the Croatian state had a relatively close future meeting with weapons in a very intense form. To say that it is unacceptable for the modern state to have in any way legalized possession or carrying weapons is, on the other hand, an insult to all those modern and civilised states that they have, and in the first place, we can always refer to the United States that have immeasurably liberal views in most of the federal states than it is the Republic of Croatia. So I don't think I know how much that might cost. The fact is that in the past 20 years, police in the Republic of Croatia have actually carried out a very high-quality process of confiscation of surplus weapons to citizens, those weapons that were no longer in use. So it's very systematic, good and high-quality, that they've taken tens of thousands of pieces of weapons to citizens who no longer needed, that these weapons were placed under control, that all those weapons that were rolled onto the market were fully legally well placed under surveillance, counted and registered, that all these weapons were held in metal cabinets with numbered ammunition. So, that we have one good and quite restrictive legislation which that weapon and the citizens that this law is good and that this weapon is kept under control, that there are no crimes that are generally committed with legalized weapons. So I think that, in fact, I would give praise and praise to the Croatian police for all these years, which in fact this large amount of weapons is being completely channeled, placed under control, and today I think that Croatian society has no problems with legalised weapons, either long or short. And that we don't need to discuss further whether we have a problem with legal weapons. I don't think Croatian society and Croatian citizens feel any current problem or threat over the issue of legalised weapons. All that happens and all the incidents in the rule that happen happen, they happen with illegal weapons, either that short, long, automatic, semi-automatic or whatever. Also what I like about this bill, which no one has mentioned, so I would briefly look back at it, is putting it from category D into category C of a weapon with a tendon whose force is greater than 450 newtons. This is about various crossbows and archery weapons that are extremely effective and extremely deadly and extremely dangerous, which have so far been in category D – completely free sales. For example, you have arrows with optical targets that you can kill a man within a few hundred meters and buy it in a store for two three thousand kunas without any form of registration. So this categorization also puts these types of weapons in that category of weapon that must be reported, possession of it. It's one smart procedure is that so far it's actually this group of weapons, we think bow arrows, but these are very dangerous devices and very deadly devices that have never actually been numbered, registered threads of their owners have been known. In this bill, I have submitted several amendments. Here's to a brief look at what I don't like. What was in the previous law, and yet here is further continued, Article 92(1), fines of three to fifteen thousand kunas will be fined for the violation of a natural person, substitute one, the chosen primary health care doctor as well as any other doctor who immediately informs the competent authority of the change of health status or course of treatment of the owner of the weapon, which affects the health care ability to hold and carry arms. The medical ability to hold and carry weapons determines the medical work, so specialists in medicine work. It's a special payday, and it's only five years off now, which is too short, I think it should've been ten years. However, what will then be punished by the primary healthcare doctor or any other doctor if he does not inform the competent authority. Fortunately, this provision has never been applied before, it was in the previous law, so no one has been punished, but it does not mean that someone will not be punished in the future because in one hospital they get a patient with a brain drain, and this patient is a weapons carrier. So he did not report to the police that his patient was a weapons carrier due to brain drains is no longer capable of holding and carrying weapons as prescribed by that sub-assembly, sub-assembly in Article 92. So, there is a saying that every doctor is asked to report on the condition of the gun carrier, of course, the question is, do you know first, secondly, if you know why you should report to the police, and the third question is whether you should be the one to determine whether this disease has affected the health skills, and the fourth question is the violation of some human rights, the fifth question puts a burden on doctors to cooperate with the police on what is happening to people and whether they are at that point, because of some disease, capable or incapable of having weapons. Therefore, the proposal is simply to delete that tray. Secondly, Article 56 states that natural persons with registered weapons are required within the time limit, I will simplify, six months from the date of entry into force of this law, to inform the competent authority, and I assume that this is some police administration about their chosen primary health care doctor. They are also obliged to notify him within sixty days when he changes his primary health care doctor, or if they do not do either of them, their armed list will be abolished. So, under one of each armed list holder should go after the entry into force of this law into the police administration and inform them there, I suppose with some kind of confirmation, who is his general practitioner, if he changes it to go back to police administration, report to the police department who his general practitioner is. HZZO's record is as complete, complete, informed as police, so I don't believe it's a big problem if the police are interested in getting complete and complete data from HZZO's IT database, not that people have to go and bring it to the police individually. This is another obligation stupid and unnecessary, because anyone who has a doctor or changes it is recorded in the HZZO database, and in a simple way these data can always be learned, or exchanged or complemented. Therefore, I see no reason why two state services would not, if the police had any need for this information at all, have not learned it from HZZO. He can always get it whole, updated, and no mistake at all, instead of people dating some certificates. I think there is, it's usually one of the pains of the Croatian police, and now I'm going back to her who loves to keep citizens coming to the police and bringing in some papers repeatedly, needlessly, if the police still haven't mastered that information enough that some things are simply solved and that they can simply informationally be determined from a variety of bases. So that's why the whole state sector is kind of informed, not that people keep bringing and coming and going to police stations with all kinds of papers. Thus, the proposal is to simply remove this article in 56 because there is no need for them. In a very simple and effective way, this can be solved differently. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8100	We've got two lines reported. First we'll hear what Zoran Vinkovic disagrees with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8101	Thank you. Well, the replica doesn't have to be a disagreement, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow Djurovic, I'm not one to be misunderstood, I don't belong to certain populations, but apparently based on these discussions in the Assembly, we could freely exclaim making love not war, or making love, not war. However, even if this law were to apply if only members of the Ministry of Interior and the military could have weapons then they would probably come into that situation where the state defended us in the 1990s, the one to whom we belonged, and fortunately separated, then they would go wrong again as citizens. The point of this law is that he really shouldn't have gone by emergency reading, by emergency procedure, but that, above all, a debate of two readings was opened in order to avoid and impose new pressures on the citizens and resolve all these dilemmas. But very quickly not to mention what I was saying on behalf of the club, very soon we will have one when this legal person or institution is established, we have a defile almost 100 thousand people who have registered weapons that are likely to go to this legal person who, through political similarity, will get that job on stamping where they will have to pay for it and where, above all, Croatia will look like a great NATO exercise of the hunters and how many sports clubs that have guns and also an air rifle can be killed, then we will probably look like Belfast. So, I believe and believe that the Minister of the Ministry does not have that authority now to say on behalf of the Minister, Ministry or Government that he accepts this proposal to go to first and second reading but I believe this law deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8102	Another replica of the esteemed representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Đurovic, I agree with you, too, especially in the part where you took care of your primary health care doctor. Well, it's inadmissible indeed one such approach that it simply loads a certain burden to doctors and here again, when it's loaded with all of the drug use, sick leave, orthopaedic aids and now we have to report to the police about. We know that health one process today is like this, in half an hour it's different and it's one process that's happening. Now, imagine I have one butcher who has a set of knives God knows what it has and doesn't and now I have to he butchers are in that spare time they're a little more relaxed, now I say he's acting weird, he's got a set of knives and what I'm gonna have to call him now. It's also about traffic, but it's not worth it in the head, and they say you'll pay hard fines. Well, I can't figure it out. So, you have to answer to the doctor, I'm really kind of worried about one of those doctor positions. So, you have to answer to HZZO all possible criteria you have to do now to the police with a commitment and a threat to receive punishment without talking about the press. They look forward to where one of the doctors made a mistake, and I truly feel for it, and with the minister’s fine announcement that the chieftain would be cut off a little bit more. So, I appreciate your thinking, and I think that really this medical population should be kept from some of these procedures, not those threats, because they are as dangerous as my colleague Vinkovic said that they do not have a registered weapon, so they commit at the time of the incident they commit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8104	Representative Drazen Djurovic will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8105	Yes, you've also mentioned the concept of a cold weapon that he hasn't mentioned so far, because this law applies to weapons he eats. We're actually talking about firearms all the time. The category of cold weapons is not in the game at all, however, the question is whether your colleagues would feel or any of us would be carrying a dog knife. Of course not, and it's called cold weapons. But here we talk all the time about firearms. So here is the point that the health care ability to hold and carry weapons is issued by authorised institutions and authorized individuals who are specifically paid for and specialise in medicine work, and the establishment of these institutions and these people are also authorised, while criminal provisions for doctors of general practice or any other doctor are mentioned here. This is a category of people who are not even authorized to determine their ability to hold and carry weapons. According to how they will be evaluated when some diseases have occurred that make it impossible or difficult to carry or use weapons, or that he is so sick that I don’t know why he can’t carry weapons. And then we're back on the car ride again, and what about it? Then where's the question of driving a car where we get a driver's license to read our lifetime until 65, and we're all in traffic. So I think common sense is, in fact, clear to me, the position of the police and they're glad and convenient to have someone else to help them, but it's our obligation to protect the interests of common sense, and let the police take care of their own problem and deal with it as they know it, not at the expense of the doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8106	As the proposing representative does not wish to exercise his right to the final word, I find that the debate on the text of the law is over and that we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8107	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on arms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 81. The debate on the text of the law is over, and the amendments were submitted by MP Mr Drazen Djurovic. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic, please make sure you make a statement on the amendments. Let's take it in a row. Amendment No 1. to Article 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8108	Dear President, honourable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The representative explains that the selected primary healthcare doctor as well as any other doctor who has knowledge of the change in the health status of the gun owner generally has no knowledge of the fact that this person is at all the owner of the weapon, nor are they qualified to determine the health capacity or to change the health capacity of the gun holders. Article 10 The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Weapons Act is proposed to be set out in Article 11. In accordance with paragraph 5, the new paragraph reads: "The competent authority will inform the selected primary health care doctor about persons who have been issued the Weapons List. By way of derogation from Article 7(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The rules on health checks for determining the health capacity to hold or hold or carry firearms, i.e. the arms of the National Journal No 79/92, have been prescribed that health organisations are obliged to request information on the possession of weapons when collecting a history of data from citizens and, in the event of the diagnosis prescribed by this Regulation, to inform the competent police authority of the place of residence of citizens of forms number two. Therefore, it is a situation where a physician of primary health care or another doctor during an examination has diagnosed the health condition which, in accordance with Article 6 of that Regulation, makes a disturbance in the possession of weapons. It is then that a doctor is required to inform the competent authority, police administration or become aware that there has been a change in the health status of the person who owns the weapon. After that, the competent authority will act in accordance with Article 45. The Law on Weapons of the National Journal No. 63/07 and refer to an extraordinary medical examination of gun owners. This review, as well as a regular review of doctors for holding and carrying arms, shall be carried out by health institutions, companies carrying out the medical work activities and specialists in private practice who are authorised to carry out such medical examinations with prior obtaining the opinion of the selected primary health care physician, i.e. medical work. Therefore, in order to enable doctors to carry out their work in a thorough and conscientious manner without imposing any other obligation to protect patients under this right, but also taking care of the lives and health of other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the bill promoter has included in the text of the law an amendment and a provision under which it is the obligation of the police to inform the primary healthcare doctor that the person has the weapon. Therefore, in the event of a change in the patient’s medical condition, the doctor will be able to immediately inform the police who will refer the gun owner to medical work, and he will ultimately assess whether the citizen is medically capable or not. Here, it should be pointed out that the cost of medical examination for holding and carrying weapons will be borne by a citizen only in case a specialist in medical work determines that the citizen is not medically capable of holding and carrying weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8109	I ask MP Djurovic if he remains with his amendment in the context of this argument? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8110	Thank you. So, from the reasoning of the legislator's representatives, it is already clear that the ambiguity that arises from this article of the law that perhaps the MPs have not seen enough so far. It is one question of changes in the mental state and changes that can lead to increased aggression of the weapons carrier, and another is a matter of changing the health condition of any disease that makes a person sick. So, here, the legislator imposes an obligation not only on the primary healthcare doctor, but on any other doctor to report to the police on the change in health status and on the diagnosis that occurred in a person, on the one hand. On the other hand, every doctor is not in any way familiar with the contents of the Regulation on the criteria to be established for the ability to carry arms. Therefore, a hospital physician faced with a patient cannot know and does not know exactly what are the criteria for determining the ability and inability to carry a weapon. So here is practically an obligation to give me one, I cited as an example of a man who is experiencing a brain drain or having a heart attack or having another disease that doesn't have any... We're reporting to the police because there's been a change in his condition that can really affect him. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] But I just don't think there's any need for that, and to introduce strict provisions that will be punished by doctors if they don't. That's why I suggested simply erasing that obligation. Here, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8111	Thank you. Who's for the amendment, please raise your hand. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to a statement on Amendment 2, also submitted by MP Mr Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Mr. Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8112	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The government doesn't accept the amendment. It was not adopted on the grounds of Article 22 of the basic Regulation. The Health Protection Act of the National No. 150/08, 71/10, 139/10, 22/11, 84/11, 154/11 And 12/12. among other things, it is prescribed that any person, in accordance with the provisions of that law and the regulations of compulsory health insurance, shall have the right to have a free choice of doctor's medicine and other dentistry and to request, during the course of treatment in writing, a change of doctor's medicine, etc. dentistry for reasons which must not be explained beyond. So, it's about the free will of the citizens of potential gun owners to change their primary health care doctor, but from the point of view of the police, the question of how to do one of the basic jobs, the task of the police, is to protect the lives and personal safety of people and property? Namely, if there is a right for a patient to change a doctor, it is also necessary to have an obligation to inform the owner of matters restricted to legal arms traffic by email, telephone, letter or any other way to change the doctor. This should not be taken as an obligation in terms of unnecessary administration or walking of citizens, but rather an obligation to protect other citizens who may be threatened by individuals who, unfortunately, do not have to be medically capable. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Weapons has also proposed such a solution just to avoid possible manipulations by unconscious gun owners who, for any reason, conceal their personal properties, which can ultimately result in a threat to the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8113	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8114	Thank you. So, sir, once again does there be any need for 50 or 100 thousand people to bring confirmations to the Police who is their primary healthcare doctor if we inform systems and it is possible very easily from the HZZO records that are being updated to find out who the primary healthcare physician is? So what are we informing ourselves about? ... I wouldn't be if the police had a need to find out the specifics. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] HZZO data have been updated. Therefore, the HZZO database can always identify the exact number and name of the doctor and whose doctors are. And that's why the proposal went to make it easier for citizens not to have to come and report it to the police, but that the police simply bond with HZZO. So that's why we're doing state information, and that's why we're building these bases to communicate with each other. And the second question I have for the promoter does he also know that gynecologists are primary health care doctors for women? You didn't mention it either. Do you think women who carry a gun list need to get information to the police about who their gynecologist is? And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8115	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment please raise your hand. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's for the final bill? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes to, 7 against, 17 abstentions, have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Arms Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8116	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - The final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on official statistics, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 83 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Arsen Bauk, Minister of Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics is part of the legislative measure contained in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2012 programme for the acquisition and implementation of the EU acquis. The reasons for the adoption of this law stems from the need for the continued harmonisation of national rules in the field of statistics with the acquis of the EU and European statistical standards. The most significant newspaper of this legislative proposal concerns the harmonisation of the applicable Law on Official Statistics with the European Parliament and the Council's Office on European Statistics as well as the Code of Practices of European Statistics. This law harmonises the principles of official statistics, professional independence, impartiality, objectivity, reliability, statistical confidentiality and profitability. Quality criteria shall be established to ensure equal standards and harmonised methods in the development and production and dissemination of the results of official statistics. These are relevance, accuracy, timeliness, timing, availability and clarity, comparability and meaning. The exchange of confidential data between the official statistics holder shall be made possible exclusively for statistical purposes. It is clearly defined that confidential data can only be used for statistical purposes And that there can be no basis for determining any rights and obligations of reporting agents such as administrative, legal or tax purposes or for verifying reporting units. [[/Intruder: How about a little louder ministers?]] The coordination role of the State Statistics Institute is strengthened by the introduction of a provision which obliges data administrative holders to amend or extend administrative data sources in writing through the notification of the State Statistics Office. The implementation of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Official Statistics Act does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. The adoption of this law will ensure further development of the Republic of Croatia's statistical system as a very important segment of European integration in line with EU rules and tailored to national needs. The other papers of this legislative proposal are that the infringement proceedings for the failure of data for the statistical survey of INTRASTAT are conducted by the Customs Administration, and since it is responsible for the collection of such data. It is specified by the annual implementation plan, corrects write errors, deletes surplus provisions and the like. In this respect, this proposal for a law contains legal solutions that comply with the provisions of the applicable Law on Official Statistics with the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, implement the recommendations of the European Commission EUROSTAT in the assessment and compliance of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia with the Code of Practice of European Statistics of April 2010 and propose to improve the text of certain provisions of the laws which show shortcomings during its application, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8118	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8119	Honorable Vice President, Honored Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Democratic societies today cannot function in quality without a solid base, reliable and objective statistics. On the one hand, decision-makers at the level of local self-government, EU Member States and, in particular, in the business sector need statistics to make as high-quality decisions as possible. On the other hand, statistics are equally important to the public, to the media, to better assess the situation in society, in the country. Official statistics are therefore one of the cornerstones of the good functioning of all states and societies. As pointed out, the importance of official statistics for quality functioning within the EU is also stressed by the importance of Member States' statistics in addressing national problems. At national level, European statistics are produced and distributed by national statistical institutions and other statistical bodies and at European level by the Statistical Office of the European Union EUROSTAT. Whether the society in which politicians have promised is going, whether unemployment is growing or it is falling, how much CO2 emissions are in relation to the previous situation, how busy women are in relation to men, how the economy of one Member State works in relation to other Member States. These are all questions to which he answers and answers exactly the statistics. International statistics are one of the ways of meeting other Member States, as well as countries outside the EU and is an important and objective way of measuring all levels of life and human activity. The National Statistics Institute is a central body in Croatia, the main holder, disseminator and co-ordinator of the official statistics system. This law extends his powers and obligations in the development of official statistics. The law is aligned with the EU acquis, regulate the provision and transfer of confidential data, statistical concepts, easier and more precise interpretations, simplified concepts, but new concepts are introduced, equally comparable with all EU members. This law should prevent events such as the 28th of March of this year, that provisional data from the State Statistics Office were corrected and no less than on the trade in goods for 2011. Namely, the published data in January 2012 differ significantly from the data published by the State Statistics Institute in March this year. It is the data in which the deficit grew by about 6.5 billion kuna, imports were higher, and exports were lower. It also corrected data on export coverage in the past year and was reduced from earlier 60.3% to 58.9%. These are not data that should have been presented in this way, data that had to be controlled, they had to be timely, they had to be correct. This law, we believe in HNS, will prevent this great mistake or irresponsibility from happening again because criteria and responsibility for implementing these criteria are introduced, namely relevance, accuracy, timeliness, availability and clarity, comparability and meaning. The HNS Club will therefore support the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Official Statistics Act in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8120	Thank you. Representative Zoran Vinkovic will speak on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8121	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I hope that you, unlike other SDP ministers, will come to Djakovo for an official visit to the city, not only to the SDP's stands as was the case with your colleagues from the Croatian Government who came to the SDP's car. Among other things, the last one was Minister Mrsic Miranda, and by the time it happened to be a solemn academy on the day of the city, so here I advise you the second time you come to the city of Đakovo I will not eat or bite anyone but I believe... Yes, yes, he was invited, he was invited and apologized to the esteemed representative Zgrebec for his earlier commitments because I don't think you should do what the former government did and share cities, mayors according to political resemblance. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know it hurts sometimes, but I'm still going to get to this law. The HDSB club will support the adoption of this law, but this is more said by Mr. Vice President on one political option and on how to rule in Croatia than it should be in reality, and you and I are getting money from those same citizens, regardless of who they voted for. Indeed, official statistics must and should be provided to the state, economy, public statistics on economic, demographic, social, health and all other issues, events, activities that can be measured by statistical methods. The only thing I'd say is, I'd say the fear that was defined by this law is the use of classified information. It clearly states in this law that they can be used exclusively for statistical purposes and based on recommendations from the European Union. But given that the past is always the teacher of life, the history of the six magistrates of vitae that it has often not been the case in Croatia, that these confidential data have been used in political accounts, used for various other purposes. I hope, first of all, that in this case, it will not be visible and that these confidential data will not pass that already known fate, the fate of the artillery logs. In any case, however, this Law also raises certain questions to which the public is seeking an answer. The question of the consistency of all these statistics is raised. Here we have now had the opportunity to see in this past law that there is no such e-Croatian, that there is no data connection even though these data exist. So then we put certain activities into the law, we place a duty and obligation this time on health care, health care professionals that the police have to give certain information even though it should be defined precisely through non-law, but through exactly one I would say cooperation but also the use of all these possible data as the former prime minister always liked to say by clicking. Clicking on certain things to do and pay. It also raises the question of the final answer of how many workers, people, employees with what kind of school, with what kind of expertise, with what kind of staff employed in the state administration, in the public sector. How many of the laws on which it is not necessary to carry out the tender are employed, whether or not statistics are processed. How many Governments of the Republic of Croatia have state agencies? Is there really an agency for researching ore and wasting time? Neither did the former management minister know the answer, and I believe you do not know how many agencies there are, in which places, in what rented spaces, how many Croatian citizens pay for those premises, etc. etc. And what may be the most important statistical issue is the question of the census. We are witnesses, and I think that almost one journalist received yesterday's award on the issue that these data from the census were not processed at all, and that they are located in inadequate spaces, that they are unfavourable animals, because many are not hunters, rats, rodents, mice and data that are paid from the state budget because it was one large job that they are not at all functional and that practically Croatia doesn't know today exactly what the number of inhabitants is, which is the national composition and all that the population list was looking for. So that's a simple answer, a question that requires an urgent answer when these data from the census are really going to be put into service, made available to the public, and is it true that most of this material is practically destroyed and that it is simply not possible to process these materials. Not to mention how long it took for censuses, for controllers, how much was paid on that list, etc. It is also very difficult to come not only to you in the state administration, but it is very difficult not to come to units of local self-government how busy it is in local self-government but rather how busy it is in the area of the city, the county, how busy it is in the region, which are interests that are surplus, which are deficiting, etc. etc. So we think this law represents one step. We will support this law, but the law itself unless the relationship to everything changes, including the fact that there is no progress either in collecting that data, but not in using that data, and the best example is this population list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8122	The closing word of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Agent Vinkovic, there are 36 employees in cabinets based on amendments to the Law on civil servants. The number of institutions in the Republic of Croatia that receive salaries from the budget 2226 of which 1500 wastes to schools, and the agency depending on what we consider to be the agency is just over 70. As far as the list material is concerned, it's not destroyed. He, therefore, is well-preserved and based on the public works programme will employ 400 people to complete it. I note that the census project, according to the director of the State Statistics Institute, envisaged money for these people last year, but the previous government allegedly did not approve of the employment of these people to finish, so we will finish it. As far as the census is concerned, a total of 4 million 456 thousand 096 were recorded, of which 4 million 290 thousand 612 persons were considered to be residents of the Republic of Croatia and also reported millions of 535 thousand 635 households. Here's the data I was able to collect while I was listening to what you were saying. I hope you're satisfied with the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8124	The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8125	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on official statistics, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 83. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes, 93 votes in favour, 16 abstentions and nothing against the law on amendments and additions to the Official Statistics Act is passed in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8126	Today we'll discuss another item on the agenda. It is - The proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of Nature Park Vransko jezero is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When making a decision, provisions for the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8127	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of us is the Spacious Nature Park Plan Vransko jezero proposed by the Government in the procedure towards the Croatian Parliament. So it's about Nature Park Vransko Lake, one short presentation will be through one 20 slides to make it more clear to all of us what we're talking about. So it's the Park of Nature of Vransko Lake, which was legally declared in the National Journal 77/99. It is located in an area near the Adriatic, therefore in a very attractive and important area for the development of the Republic of Croatia, so in one attractive location. I'm asking nicely. We got a little bit of technique going down, we had a little trouble. Next. Nothing, I'll do it like this, it'll stay this icon, and I'll move on, maybe our technique will work in the meantime. So it's a spatial range of 57 square kilometers. The Vransko lake is normally the largest lake in the Republic of Croatia, with an area of 3002 hectares, excellent. This is already the third slide. So it has a surface area of 3002 hectares. Otherwise, Vransko jezero is located in Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County, in the area of the town of Benkovac and the municipality of Pakoštane and Stankovci located in Zadar County, i.e. in the area of the municipality of Pirovac and Tisno in Sibenik-Knin County. According to the 2001 figures, there were 5279 residents, but it is mainly a temporary population. I'm asking nicely. Here, as I have already said, the surface of the lake is 3002 hectares and is the largest lake in Croatia. It is an area that is extremely rich in cultural and natural characteristics for the simple reason that when we talk about cultural heritage, or rather about the heritage of construction heritage then this heritage goes so far as to have remains of the Ilir Age, we have remains of the Roman era, we have remains of medieval times, from the age of Mletek and Turks, and traditional rural architecture, which is medievally characterized by the area in question. I'm asking nicely. What is equally important and important is the area of the Vransko Lake where the special ornithological reserve that occupys the larger area of the lake is the area where there is a large number of special properties, i.e. birds living in that area and therefore one of the reasons was the declaration of Nature Park Vransko Lake Nature Park. I'm asking nicely next. When we talk about the space of protection then we're talking about a space that's protected in three categories. These slides may be a little too far and they might be a little out of sight, but what's important is to say that we have three levels of protection. On this slide you have a chance to see, so this red area is a strict protection area and it includes 7.4% of the park area, so inside that area are also the above mentioned ornithological reserve. Then we have strict protection zones and we have an active protection zone, it's 91.8% of the park, so it's a zone that's the biggest area of the park. I'm asking nicely. Here is the same attractive icon that actually shows the area of Nature Park Vransko jezero, talks about elements that are important and important for this area, for the right to preserve natural characteristics, preserve cultural characteristics, preserve traditional construction and maximum preservation and use of this extremely important and attractive space. I'm asking nicely. Compared to the purpose of the surface here we have defined the following uses of the surface. We have the building area of the eco settlement Majdan, we have existing construction areas that belong to the areas of certain municipalities and cities as I have already said. Then we have spaces that function in the park, then we have an existing camp. In addition to the existing camp, Draga and the new planned camp are scheduled. We have a sports-recreation zone without construction, of course the space intended for bathing, agricultural surfaces, forest surfaces and the largest area of Nature Park Vransko lake are water surfaces. I'm asking nicely. When we talk about entrances to the park then there are main entrances, for the Zadar County area they are Churches, then for the area of Sibenik-Knin County it is Prosika. In addition to these main entrances there are side entrances, these are Drage, St. Nedeljica, Kamenjak, Mednjača, Banjevački apartments and Pirovac. I'm asking nicely. When we talk about existing construction and existing facilities, therefore in the area of Nature Park Vransko jezero in the area intended for agriculture there are existing facilities which are there, as I have already said for many years and this spatial plan these existing objects that are recorded on the corresponding chart can be reconstructed. Equally in areas where agricultural production remains in operation and agricultural production may be less construction. I'm asking nicely. When it comes to the camp, the existing camp provides for the construction of a new camp, but only with accompanying facilities in the function of the camp. So minimum procedures are possible. What characterizes this area are both abandoned or partially and in the function of the fishing house. These fishing homes are predicted to be renovated and put into operation, or some of them will be able to be restored and placed in the function of the Nature Park Vransko Lake. I'm asking nicely. When it comes to the building area of the eco settlement Majdan then it is a specific area for which it has already been introduced at the local level a detailed plan of arrangement with which the detailed plan of the arrangement is defined which and how it can be built in that area, so please the next slide that may be visible. And here we see actually that it is possible to build objects and mixed purposes, housing purposes, one sports area, this green area, and there is equally intended for a religious object, a space for building a religious object. I'm asking nicely. This spatial plan enables the reconstruction of existing facilities in the function of the park itself, allowing the arrangement of existing ports as well. I'm asking nicely for the next one. So we have an integral part of the spatial plan as well as detailed analysis of the space with detailed proposition and conditions under which construction is possible on a given space. I'm asking nicely. When it comes to infrastructure, please, the next slide will be easier for us. So when we're talking about infrastructure, then we're talking about making paths. So the existing trails will be arranged for hiking and cycling, and the construction of new paths in that function is also envisaged. And equally all existing ports are intended to be restored and put into operation and use of nature parks. Please, please, next. This is shown in one icon in one of these ports, so this detailed proposition that I'm talking about is where detailed propositions are defined by the way and the conditions under which existing ports can be brought to an appropriate purpose. I'm asking nicely for the next one. Equally so what is important is that the channels that are and are there to enable their, their reconstruction, put into operation because in this way we actually allow the Nature Park Vransko Lake to continue to be so and to enable us, to enable its natural characteristics. I'm asking nicely for the next slide. When it comes to infrastructure then it is about existing roads that will enable reconstruction, there is no construction of new roads, it is not about introducing new traffic into the park space, but there will be parking, in the main or secondary entrances. The existing water supply exists in such a way, will continue to be used. Equally, existing power supply and power supply, and the way waste water is disposed of will be dealt with in an adequate manner, subject to strict protection conditions, on individual parcels themselves. What is important, public insight into the proposal was from August 19th to September 17th in Pakostan and Tisno. The public view was approached by interested citizens, and there were thirty-five submissions. During these thirty-five submissions, one hundred seventy-one remarks were recorded. Of these one hundred seventy-one remarks were accepted ninety-four, ten were partially accepted, forty-two comments for the right interpretation, and twenty-five were not accepted. In the follow-up process, all the necessary consents and opinions of the body of the state administration were gathered and here you have before you the Spacious Park of Nature Vransko jezero at the adoption. I'm asking nicely for the next one. Here you may also see a nice picture of the area of nature park. He was created, worked by the Ministry's Office for Spatial Editing in cooperation with the Zadar County and Sibenik-Knin County's competent institutions. And I'd like one of the last slides on which you might be slightly undersighted, but what's important to say is that at this point, we have nine plans in relation to protected parts of nature, six of which are related to national parks and three of them are related to nature parks. Of which is this last which was red marked was the space of the National Park Velebit which we, which the Croatian Parliament brought at its last session. We in the process at various stages have ten more plans. From that, two plans refer to national parks. National parks have valid plans in place, but they are no longer adequate because of the time component, and also because they have changed and covered. Of these two national parks, Plitvice Lakes are at a high stage of completion and I expect that I could be prepared just as soon to go towards the Croatian Assembly in the procedure of adoption, and as far as nature parks are concerned, we have eight other plans. Here is one here in front of the Croatian Parliament for adoption, two are in a repeated public debate, these remain in certain phases of previous discussions, i.e. collecting the bases, so I hope that some work plan that the ministry has put on our own against protected parts of nature will respect and try towards the Croatian Parliament within a reasonable time frame with other plans. Thank you very much. The only thing I would like to stress is the amendment of Ms. Vukbratovic's distinguished MPs to Article 156, which we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8128	Thank you very much for the fine representatives of the promoter, deputy minister of construction and spatial planning of the respected Anka Mrak Taritas. We're crossing, we're not. Would you like to take a word from one of the committee's working bodies? The Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental Protection? Nothing, I'm saying. I'm opening a debate. The first to discuss is representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first registered representative, Željko Kolar, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP welcomes the decision to make the Spacious Nature Park Plan Vransko jezero. Since it is a park of nature and is allowed for economic and other activities which do not endanger its essential features, it is necessary to coordinate the interests of nature protection and the local population. The plan contains conditions for determining space of importance for the state and county, conditions for demarcation of space according to characteristics, purpose and use, general conditions for building and editing of space, conditions for the establishment of transport and other infrastructure systems in space, transport system, energy system, water economy system, measures to protect natural values and specificities and cultural historical units, waste management, measures to prevent adverse environmental impacts, soil protection, air, water, flood protection, noise protection, fire protection against earthquakes and destruction and removal of populations, measures to implement, and a graphic part of the plan. The plan also defines the demarcation of space according to purpose and method of use and degree of protection. The planning also sets out very detailed conditions of construction and arrangement for certain areas within the nature park. According to the zone of nature protection, the park is divided into three main zones. The strict protection zone, the active protection zone and the use zone. The visiting system is based on the value and specificity and significance of the park and its basic functions, protection, scientific, cultural, aesthetic, educational, educational, recreational and touristic functions. The owner of the visiting system concept is the public institution Nature Park Vransko jezero for the control of the territory. Bringing this spatial plan will make it easier for them to manage. The motives of coming to the nature park are both scientific and educational or in most recreational-traumatic. Therefore, special attention is planned as far as we have noticed, except for the two main entrances of the north-west, the churches of Zadar County and the Southeast Prosika from Sibenik-Knin County and the other 6 smaller parallel entrances that are very important for the local population. The plan is also very important to detect wastewater areas in 8 different locations and how they are collected. The same definition is a water-economic system with a water supply system connection trend and an energy system with the construction of new trafostations and power supply networks depending on the capacity needed and also a recommendation for the use of alternative energy sources. The National Institute for Nature Protection specifically pointed out the problem of water deforestation of the Vranjska Lake and the need to launch activities to establish integrated water management in order to restore and maintain a stable freshwater wetland eco system. The importance of the regular maintenance and editing of the Prosik freight channel is primarily highlighted here and the recent launch of activities in the construction of the prison for the purpose of reducing the saltwaters of the lake. Since there are no colleagues of Bačić that could, on behalf of the Environmental Protection Committee, I will then take advantage of the opportunity to read the conclusion proposed by the Committee to the Croatian Parliament, which reads: "It is proposed that the Ministry of Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia and the public constitutional Park of Nature Vransko jezero should, in order to preserve the phenomenon of the water of the Vransko lake and the sea, and based on existing and law-based documentation and by observing wider space, ensure the conditions for the realization of the prison on Prosica, which will define and maintain a favourable water regime and preserve the lake from excessive planning." The SDP club will support the conclusion and adoption of a spatial plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8130	Thanks a lot to the SDP club. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Dragutin Glava. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8131	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The obligation to adopt the spatial plan of the Nature Park of Vransko Lake is prescribed by the provision of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Nature Protection Act. The area of Vransko Lake and its coast has been declared as we heard from nature parks in 1999. Years. As far as the proposal of the Space Plan of the Vransko Lake is concerned, we at the HNS Club consider it to be of quality. It is available for a total of 57 square km of space. What makes special values of the park area itself are lake, ornithological reserve, flora and fauna, biodiversity, geological-morphological structure of the area, natural phenomena, cultural goods, ethnological heritage, olive groves, attractive places to visit and other values that together make up the basic physionomy of the covered area of the park. The proposed provisions of the proposed spatial plan contain 4 conditions. The conditions for determining the space of building of importance for the state and county, the conditions for demarcation of space according to characteristics, purpose and use, general conditions for building and editing of space, conditions for the establishment of transport and other infrastructure systems in space, and three measures, measures for the protection of natural values and specificities of cultural and historical units, waste management measures, measures to prevent adverse environmental impacts and implementation measures. When discussing and adopting a court on the quality of the proposed plan, it is certainly necessary to take into account the assessment and conclusions of the Council of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. Its features are highlighted and the evaluations and conclusions, among other things, suggest that the plan provides a framework for sustainable use and regulation of space and that it is a quality basis for managing the area of the park and that human and economic components that do not endanger the fundamental values of space are retained. During the construction phase, there was cooperation between expert resistors and the local population. But surely not all sides are satisfied. That is what the data in the public hearing procedure are saying where 35 submissions were received with 171 remarks. We heard from the deputy minister's statement. This data actually speaks about the interest of a public debate participant on the Space Plan of the Vransko Lake. What is looking forward to is that the remarks did not go towards changing the concept of the plan, but the plan itself was given at quality and the majority of the remarks were accepted especially by those addressed by public institutions, professional institutions and institutions. We heard that 25 objections were not accepted, and 10 were partially accepted. 94 comments were fully accepted. There will certainly be a need for further cooperation with the local population in order to protect space but also for their existence. The public institution itself expressed satisfaction with the proposed plan. Finally, the plan enables the protection of natural and cultural goods based on further research, and protection is needed. We are witnessing the problems facing Vransko Lake. A short time ago, there was a huge sea of fish. The causes in the first row are listed excess salinity and then high temperature and low level of lake, propagation of algae and others. Therefore, a good proposal from the Environmental Protection Committee is addressed to the Ministry of Environment and Public Institute Nature Park Vransko jezero, who has just read a colleague Kolar, so I will not read it, where it is actually proposed to build a prison... which will define and maintain a favourable water regime and preserve the lake from oversowing. [[You don't understand.]] Through that channel, as we know, as well as through the underground limestone reef, contact with the sea is made. For this, I'm sure you need to find the means. In the end, beauty, speciality, and especially our obligation to preserve the phenomenon of the Vran Lake for future generations, require our attention and engagement in the organization of the Park of Nature of the Vran Lake. This proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Spacious Nature Park Vransko Lake is on this trail. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the CNS will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8132	Thank you, Your Honor. The next is the HDZ club and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor. So here's a proposal for a plan that I'm sure we'll all adopt, it's a proposal for a decision on the decision to make the Spacious Nature Park Vransko Lake. Here is also in the opening presentation we heard a few information, or useful information about the Vran Lake itself, so let me, simply man can't start talking only about articles and items if he doesn't say anything about the specialities of Vran Lake. So, all of us who fly or travel through central Dalmatia, or northern Dalmatia between two, so I have to say in the history of the rich city of Sibenik and Zadar, we will have a beautiful natural phenomenon close to two equally beautiful and so beautiful blues. One is the sea, and one is the lake. And this particular lake, which is the largest natural lake in Croatia, is one of the few almost intact natural habitats of water birds with drinking water sources, and the area is also a unique specificity, biodiversity, and as such, the Vransko lake with its surrounding area was declared a nature park. The borders of this park are situated between Pirovac and Pakoštan, the park is 57 km2, and the largest part of 30.02 km2 is situated on the Vransko lake in the direction of the SZ-JI and is provided parallel to the seashore from which it is situated less than km away. In its position and characteristics it is specific in Croatia, but I must say that in wider European spaces this lake is specific and well known. It is actually a karsk field filled with bottled water and represents a kryptodepression. The dominant feature of the park is a special ornithological reserve due to its preservation, a large reed i.e. in the SZ part of the lake as a rare wetland system of great biodiversity, exceptional scientific and ecological values. Since 1983, he has been given that status and has been included in a list of important ornithological areas in Europe. Except for the birds here, of course, we have an important habitat and fish. And now I won't talk much about it because I think all those who come not only from Croatia, but also from Europe are familiar with the beauty of the Vran Lake. What I would like to say once again is that it is the largest lake in Croatia at the bottom of the Neretva, and it is the only major swamp in the Mediterranean part of Croatia, that it is a special ornithological reserve, that it is the habitat of four species of birds at the European level, that it is the habitat of seven species at national level, that it is the largest nesting population of small crows, that it is the only nest in Mediterranean Croatia for the dungulju, for a large white herb, a small white herb, a small crow, that there are species included in the convention on migrant species, it is according to the Bologna Convention, that it is a hot spot area, i.e. a very large variety of ornitofauna. We've listed some 251 species of birds, 102 species of nests. The number of watermen in winter is over 100,000 individuals. It's rich in history so let me just say a few archaeological but also other monuments that are important and interesting to all those who come here and tourism, but I also have to say research. Well it is the famous tower Osridak of the 4th century, it is the only famous ancient fortress of the circular interior section on the eastern side of the Adriatic. Then we have the 15th-century Osridak Melt Tower... , Babin Skaj, the Mljetska Border Guard and what the esteemed Deputy Minister said, which is Bunja, and Bunja is in reality traditional, stone, Polish house and we are glad that she is included in the renovation. [[You don't understand.]] Today, we witness the continuing loss of biodiversity. This fact and Europe underlines by considering the objectives of the new 7th Environment Action Programme for Europe to continue on the previous Action Plan adopted for the period 2002-2012 and will be the bridge between the environment and the European 2020 strategy. In such circumstances, it is important to point out that the Republic of Croatia is today one of the richest countries in Europe according to biodiversity. This fact also puts before us a great obligation to preserve this extraordinary advantage of ours from a wider point of view. In fact, it is an extremely important area of the Republic of Croatia which needs to be managed and used in a sustainable way and to ensure its protection. It should be recalled that according to the Nature Protection Act, 8.18% of the total area of Croatia is protected in the Republic of Croatia today through 9 categories of protection. It's about a significant number of protected areas somewhere around 450 of which most of them are nature parks. The share of nature parks in the total area of protected areas of Croatia is 51.33%. The characteristics of nature parks as a cartography of protection that only economic activities which do not endanger their characteristics and role are permitted in these areas with ecological characteristics of national importance. Therefore, with the applicable legislation covering issues of management of certain resources, the rules on the internal order of nature parks, the management plans of nature parks and the similar essential element of management of the area of parks are the spatial plans. In fact, spatial plans are one of the essential elements that should allow protected areas to become the focus of new rural strategies by combining nature conservation with the restoration of traditional economy and the integration of eco tourism. While the area of national parks is better covered by spatial plans, it is also a great task to cover the area of nature parks with full space and planning documentation. So far, we have heard a total of 9 spatial plans, i.e. Six spatial plans of national parks. It is Mljet, Paklenica, Risnjak, Brijuni, Kornati and North Velebit, and only 3 spatial plans of nature parks Kopački ass, Učka and Lonjsko polje. We can actually say that this spatial plan is also rounding up in the space-plan sense of three nature parks, which are Kopački rit, Lonjsko polje and Vransko lake which are included in the list of important... the areas of Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's precisely the fact that this area of Lake Vrana, which is a park of nature, we heard and I already said '99. The year represents an unusual combination of Mediterranean karst and marsh areas resulting in its great biodiversity and landscape diversity. Namely, the entire Nature Park Vransko jezero is also within the area of the national ecological network. It is good to point out that an ecological network covering 47% of the land and 39% of the sea territory of the Republic of Croatia has been established in the Republic of Croatia. Vransko jezero is also a potential area of NATURA 2000 and is valued as an internationally important area for birds, and as an important area for wild species and habitat types is valued as the special ornithological reserve Vransko jezero. The special ornithological reserve is 15.3% of the nature park area, and it is the northwest edge of the lake that is in the zone of intense floods, and is extremely rich in swamp birds. The importance of this area also suggests that out of the 249 species recorded in the area of nature parks, more than 150 are at risk at national European and global level. At the time of the autumn village, since this area is an important resting place and feeding ground for the settlement birds and winters, the total daily population of birds in the nature park sometimes reaches a million individuals. Furthermore, with a rich ornito fauna, a diverse fish fund, the area of Vransko Lake is rich in numerous cultural and historical sights a few moments ago, I said which. All this is also a significant tourist potential with all the positive effects for the Zadar and Sibenik-Knin County economy. The creation of this spatial plan required consensus in the protection of this space, the economic use of space and the interests of the local population. The work on drawing up the plan has also been slowed down to change the border of the special ornithological reserve. So after many years of systematic work on its construction last year, this spatial plan was developed, which is one of the priorities for managing, using and protecting this particularly valuable area. The plan is the basis of reflection, long-term spatial development of the Vran Lake area, according to the principles of sustainable development. It is important to note that there was a public debate in the spatial plan in August last year and that the spatial plan was obtained, all the necessary consent was obtained for it. We at the HDZ Club believe that this spatial plan defines three areas of space use and that 7.4% of the area area of strict protection, 91.8% of the active protection zone and 0.8% of the use zone. A framework for sustainable use and editing of space is provided, and is a quality basis for managing the area of nature park. It then rests on the principles of nature protection and enables the protection of natural and cultural goods and also enables the existence of the local population. I have to say, that's unusually important. In fact, the very area within the park's borders is almost unpopulated but we can talk about over 5,000 inhabitants of the nearest settlements to which protection and use of this space should bring a new quality of life. It is important that the way space is used is also acceptable from the point of view of the local population's interest. We also want to highlight the importance of consistent implementation of this spatial plan by ensuring the establishment of full protection of natural and cultural values. It is priority to ensure the implementation of active measures to protect the aquariums and lakes, and to the lake to a significant channel of Prosik. In this context, a series of activities on the construction of a prison on the Prosica should be launched, and integrated water management should be established with a view to reducing the salination of the lake. Finally, the HDZ Club particularly wants to express its satisfaction that in the process of adopting a spatial plan that creates the basis for a coordinated development and preservation of the value of the nature park Vransko jezero. We would also like to point out that this plan was drawn up last year in cooperation, including the relevant bodies of individual resolutions and local populations, and that it is therefore necessary to carry out any further activities on the principle of cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8134	Thank you, too. We have completed the discussion by representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament about the spatial plan of Nature Park Vransko jezero. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. First of all, the esteemed representative, Ivan Klarin, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8135	Here's Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must stress that we were looking forward to the adoption of a spatial plan of the Nature Park Vransko jezero in the framework of which implementing provisions we expect then and the appropriate use of the scope in question as well as the coverage in the area of several municipalities in the area of two counties, so the Sibenik-Knin County of my County and Zadar County. I cannot therefore not commend all those involved in the work of this spatial plan. I believe that the adoption of the plan in question will finally adequately protect the borders of the Croatian Parliament, a defined coverage of this area as a significant natural reserve of our country. I must also mention that as the scope of the plan lies in the area of my Municipality of Tisno within which there are several residential buildings, precisely 20 of them, the municipality of Tisno also sought to influence the provisions for the implementation of this plan during the period of public debate, giving specific guidelines for the area of Prosika area of the municipality of Tisno. Namely, on the area of the mentioned Prosika, which represents the isolated part of the Betina settlement where we have found almost 20 illegal housing facilities should certainly be taken into account to keep them in space in the sense of allowing the legalisation mentioned, perhaps through the announcement of the same space as the Mayan village. During the period of the public debate of this plan, we sought to allow the status of the definition of the intention of space for the purpose of covering the eco-dwelling of the Majdan marina also in the scope of the plan in a strictly protected Ornitological reservation for birds the area of Prosike plan is defined by a specific intention. In our conversation with Madam Deputy Minister of Construction, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the legalization of these facilities, after which these conditions will try to be introduced into the Spatial Plan of the Municipality of Tisno and will therefore go back to the changes and additions of Nature Park Vransko jezero. Finally, I would like to stress that Nature Park Vransko jezero is one of the pearls of natural beauty in Dalmatia and is definitely looking forward to the adoption of the spatial plan of the Nature Park Vransko jezero as a plan of great importance, the protection of the area in question, both the municipality of Tisno and the municipality of Pakostane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8136	Thank you, too. The next representative who wants to talk about this proposal for a spatial plan is a respected representative of Damir Rimac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8137	So I'm going to try the opening part, someone mentioned, not just refer to the articles of the spatial plan, but say something about biodiversity and ultimately the ecologicality, that is, the disaster that recently hit Nature Park Vransko jezero. Namely, the Nature Protection Act Article 13 of the Nature Park is defined as a spatially natural or partly cultured area of land and/or sea with ecological characteristics of international or national importance and with prominent landscaped educational, cultural and historical and tourist-recreation values. This is a beautiful definition that stands in the law, but unfortunately that the Republic of Croatia, or ourselves as citizens, sometimes we don't respect it. All this stuff that's listed seems to be irrelevant because we didn't know how to use these comparative advantages of Vranjski Lake. In particular, the adoption of a spatial plan is defined and prescribed by Article 100(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The Nature Protection Act. In its opening section, the Deputy Minister pointed out how many spatial plans we actually have in national parks and how much of this is covered in nature parks. I have to express my dissatisfaction because objectively of 11 nature parks as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia right now we have only 3 spatial plans that have been adopted or if you want in a relative amount that is somewhere around 27%. Which means that over 70% of us don't actually have a regulated area through spatial plans in these other 8 nature parks. So I must also express concern that the HDZ on the other hand points to this problem and ask the question of what have you been doing for the past 10 years? Why weren't the spatial plans initiated, why didn't it start to intensify and solve these problems? The answer is very simple because there was no vision, no mission, no goals, and I dare say and claim that this government has both a vision and a mission and a goal. The vision is to make this Croatia better, the mission is to arrange spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia, and as a goal is to have a settled state. Namely, one of my own impressions, yesterday I came back from Denmark and the Danes branded everything. They branded even Danish coffee. It's like coffee growing and growing in Denmark. But Danish coffee is a brand in the northern countries. I don't see why the Republic of Croatia is not using these pearls enough. Mostly in research tourism, recreational, but also recreational. In fact, it may be strange that a Slavonac is talking about the coast and that it is discussing coastal topics, but I consider it my duty and that I personally care about each part of the Republic and feel the need to contribute to the improvement and debate in the adoption of this spatial plan. Namely, Nature Park Vransko jezero is situated between Zadar and Sibenik as we have already heard in the opening part and heard, in the hinterland and we also heard that it is the largest lake in the Republic of Croatia, but its length of 13.5 km falls into one of the longer lakes and in Europe itself. Namely, it is the only swamp in the Mediterranean part of the Republic of Croatia rich in historical heritage, because the first findings date back to 2000 BC, which is often forgotten. The dominant characteristic of nature park is also a special ornithological reserve which, due to its conservation and large reeds in the northwestern part of the lake as a rare marsh system of exceptional scientific and ecological value since the 1980s, has been given that status and has been included in the list of important ornithological areas in the EU. Unfortunately, neither we were able to use this fact enough to publicly expose, mainly in Europe, and attract foreign tourists. Although there was a lot of talk about the biological features of Nature Park Vransko jezero let me just briefly remind you that in the area of the park of 57 square kilometers dwells somewhere about 250 species of birds, 17 species of fish 8 species of amphibians, 19 species of reptiles, somewhere about 40 types of mammals and 18 types of bats, and you know that a bat as a mammal is the most endangered animal in Europe, it is threatened with extinction. Not to mention, there are over 700 plant species in Nature Park. I stress, this is an immense wealth for many tourists who are not sufficiently and sufficiently used. In the opening part, we heard that the lake belongs to the category of kryptodepression, which means that actually the bottom of the lake is below sea level, which is a sort of phenomenon and also a danger that we discussed at the Committee on Environmental Protection. Namely, the strict protection zone covers about 7.5% of the park area and is fully within a special ornithological reserve. 42 square km is waste in Zadar County, and 15 km or 26% of nature park is waste on the county of my colleague Ivan Klarin in Sibenik-Kninsk. The spacious plan, which we hope to adopt unanimously as one of the ways in which the ecological system is preserved, is encouraged by both extensive and traditional livestock farming in the area of nature park, and the plan also requires a smooth transition to environmentally acceptable agriculture, with the possibility of buying-in and placement of products by a public institution, which will in some way contribute to the integration and development of the local population. A few words about the environmental disaster that has been taking place lately in the last 5 to 6 days that I would dare to characterise as the biggest fish disaster in the last 30 to 40 years in the Republic of Croatia, which has caused the sea of over a thousand kilograms of high-quality river fish. It primarily refers to pike, carp, and catfish transducers over 70 kg. Of course, this seam of fish will also contribute to the poor state of freshwater fishing in the Republic of Croatia. The solutions are to build a sort of prison dam that the Environment Committee has also proposed in its conclusion, but the investment that costs me seems to be 1.2 to 1.5 million kuna, and I believe that both the Ministry and the Government will try to find a way to secure these funds, because as I said in the opening part of the problem for ten years now, and for that problem there is actually no solution, which means again that there was no either hearing or good will to solve this problem. I sincerely hope that by adopting a spatial plan, this problem will be resolved and that the salinity that occurs in that lake will be reduced. I will personally support this proposal of the Spacious Nature Park Vransko Lake Jell-O is I think it is quality and I honestly believe that the problems that exist will soon be the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8138	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation, we have reported four replicas, with one as a good standard as democratic should not, and then I'll explain to you a correction of an incorrect assumption. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said the last government had no visions, no mission, no goals. That's incorrect. So if we mention only the goal of joining NATO, the end of accession negotiations, and there was no hearing. There was hearing, there was also for the retired and very much hearing when some did not deny the debt to the pensioners at all, and our government returned it, please nice. That's one question. And I'm asking a question, what are your goals? If it's an increase in VAT, an increase in unemployment, an increase in price, then I'm very concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8140	Thank you, Your Honor. It has very little to do with spatial planning, but we'll respect it. It's all right. Thank you very much. Let's go to the replica. The first for replica was signed up by a respected representative, Gjurdzica Sumrak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear fellow Roman, I'm surprised. This spatial plan you see and the debate on it was brought during the former government. I don't suppose you understand what you're talking about right now. I don't know if you know what Natura 2000 is, do you know what the Red Book is, what the White Book is? Do you know about the protection of Kopački rit, do you know that it's not just a park of nature, there are several kinds of protection colleagues dear. What is important in any such spatial plan to do when it is protected and it is very important and it is very good to ensure that a respected fellow population is working. You see, when you said so quickly that the government had no vision, and this government had it in politics, and in reality it was a very good and noble thing. We didn't stress here you see and I in front of my club debate is you know it's the HDZ government, we proposed it and we brought it to you and all of these spatial plans we are, and we are, and I think it has nothing to do with being the thing you're talking about, and even less I justify you, I'm sorry, you have to take a little bit more interest in the subject you're talking about. I'd like you to know a lot more about what forest species are protected there, so I'd like you to know a little more about fish species. I'm equally sure you're a Slavic that you don't know so much about Kopački rit. Here, when you can talk like this, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8142	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8143	I will use the detail to remind my colleague that the entire Nature Park Vransko jezero is located within the area of the national ecological network, but that it is not yet the Natura 2000 area, therefore this part is very well known to me. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8144	My colleagues let me run the session. I'm asking you very nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8145	to me is also an understandable nervous colleague on the other hand because actually proof of how much they worked indicates the fact that three spatial plans for 11 nature parks have been brought together for 10 or 12 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8146	Thank you, too. The next one was reported by respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8147	Thank you. My dear fellow Roman, you are not the only Slavonic who is interested in Vransko Lake. I've personally been to that Vranj Lake, though, and this is not true that it's the biggest fish kill in the last 30 years, it's certainly not been that there have been other such cases. The fact is, that's why we didn't even want to answer on behalf of the club so we wouldn't just take away the time. In my view, it doesn't matter which government did this, this absolutely couldn't do it, the Kukuriku coalition couldn't do it these 100 days because the procedure itself was much longer, but it is important that this spatial plan came before the Croatian Parliament and the HDSB club, since we believe it was professionally done, that the public debate was carried out, that a series of remarks are important that are tied up, and most importantly that it is the local population, and afterwards, the entire Croatia will benefit from that spatial plan, we will support this plan, not wanting to politicise whose role is now greater and during whose government it is placed on the agenda of the Parliament. I wish all the spatial plans had been brought in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8148	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The replica was constructive, if I may say so. The next replica is the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Roman, I'll also say I'm sorry that you used a very good document for politics. But I want to tell you something, there are three spatial plans. I don't know how much you know, and I believe the ministry lady knows exactly how long it takes to bring in one spatial plan or a national park or a nature park. On the occasion, I was also a representative of the Governing Council of Nature Park Lonjsko Polje, and he was also adopted in the term of the previous Government as this was accepted and discussed in this House. Our goal is to protect these areas, but our goal is also to enable people living within the parks of nature, including this in Vranj Lake and Nature Park Lonjsko polje and Northern Velebit that they live one I will tell normal life, but life in the park nature is not easy. There live mostly rural population, these are people who deal with agriculture, and deal with agriculture and respond to all environmental protection requirements, nature protection within the nature park is very difficult. Therefore, the adoption of such spatial plans is a long-term process which is indeed subject to a comprehensive public debate and I can tell you that we have discussed it several times. These discussions included all possible interested associations that operate, the local population. It's not just about protecting nature, it's about building heritage, it's about cultural heritage, and you have to satisfy the needs of the population to the extent that people live.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8150	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8151	Just one more sentence and I'll be done. That people living within the park of nature live the same way as you and I who live in cities or outside those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8152	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8153	I completely agree with you. Of course, the population living in the nature park is mostly rural and what is primarily important to them is to ensure the purchase of products that they produce and develop tourism. Why wasn't it done I don't know, but here maybe it would be good to hear the answer because that's the plan that you have and that you've been doing for 10 or 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8154	Thank you very much. The next one for a ten-minute debate was registered by a respected representative, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8155	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Surely this is a significant document and our club supported this document, regardless of the polemics of who made it, how he made it, it is important that this document is valid and that we can discuss it now. What I think is that this document, with this spatial plan, is given a significant protection of that space, a significant management of that space, and a significant use of that space. In order not to enter the geographical concepts of how large the lake is, how small the lake is, these are the colleagues in the debates, I will just say that this nature park is one of the most significant ornithological reserves for both nesting and feeding the birds of the village. What is important to say about this natural park, that this natural park extends to two counties, Zadar County and Sibenik-Knin County, that more than 5000 inhabitants live in the area and that there is a little rarity in this area, that in 1770 a natural lake was dug up and connected to the sea and because of salinity, we have a level of sea we have these fish problems. This does not happen so often, so the proposal to protect what the conservatives have given, that certain dams can regulate it, and I don't think that should be a major obstacle. My colleagues said a lot about flora and fauna, but here I'd like to touch one of the problems that weighs and Kopački butts, which drags and crow lakes. These are reeds that are a vital habitat for nesting and breeding birds. As we know each year with all possible prevention measures regulated by the fires of Article 165, 166, 167, we see that these measures are not of sufficient quality and that almost at the same time each year the fires that significantly desecrated this natural habitat in relation to the propagation of certain bird species. I would dare to propose to nature guards here, to all those who take care of the park that other measures are provided for in cooperation with the fire department. If these are fires that happen every year at the same time with all possible prevention measures, arson bans, control, we have damages every year. In my view, it's more logical and cleverer in a certain way, to frame the reeds in certain spaces so that we don't get the whole reed burned out. So I would certainly suggest here with future spatial plans that, in cooperation with professionals, especially nature guards, find better solutions to preserve those spaces. In my opinion, one of the ways these reeds in certain places are averaged, and if there is a fire, that fire can be controlled. Because if it happened once in five years then you'd say it was coincidences. But almost every year at the same time whether fishermen, whether those who use cane in terms of overlapping objects, think that's not good and that's certainly a lot more to worry about. What is also important is that this spatial plan precisely defines protection zones from strictly active and use zones and that this use zone does not exceed one percent. In this context, it should certainly be talked about how to raise a service that is related to tourism, which is primarily for persons who are interested in both flora and fauna regarding their reception, their stay in the area of nature park. In any case, I support and support the spatial plan of Nature Park Vransko Lake and would also suggest that these other parks of nature bring their plans as soon as possible, spatial plans because this is the best way to protect and use space. Because everything else without spatial plans is just pummeling and guessing that it might be good, and with the spatial plans of the Ministry and the Government and the Parliament that has control of everything in a direct way controls and essentially manages this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8156	Thank you very much. Two replicas have been reported to your presentation. He is the first respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mandic, you've moved me to think, you've mentioned the reeds. Everyone in their midst may have some kind of nature park protected landscape. Here I am, thank God I come from such an environment where I have the pearl of the nature of Ješkovo. And you mentioned the danger of the bird's nests being a white shepherd. It's a rare specimen and we're really proud of it. But also where the fire threat threatened, there was a fire this year. But my local firefighters, so they put out that fire, stopped a major carnage, and I'm extremely proud of it. But what happened. We provided a dear colleague to our firemen with conditions, but it also encouraged me that you're standing up for the budget, so that the fire department doesn't have what happened this year that the funds were cut so drastically. It's inadmissible and unacceptable because it's going to make an even bigger mess. All this effort, all these efforts to preserve these pearls will fall into the water. And I think that our priority is to preserve the environment, because in the wider European frameworks, we have one of the best preserved environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8158	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8159	... So this is how I thank my colleague for giving me the opportunity to answer. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder Leko: Get involved.]] What is not good in the Croatian Fire Department is that professional fire departments are established in the last 20 years without proper study and need. There are six professional fire departments in the Republic of Austria, and in the Republic of Croatia I think it is 67. So, fire squads were set up without some justification against fire protection. Where they were mine, come on, we'll take care of 30 or 40 people. I know for a fact about the needs of the fire department that Croatia needs to also look for a model that is most effective and that is the most economically profitable. And here I was talking about the issue of a spatial plan, respecting what was put into effect under articles 165, 166, 167, that every year there were fires. In that part, I draw attention to the fact that there may be other ways to preserve it. Because when the cane catches up to the wind, then make sure it's hard to control, you know. Here's a thank you, and we can talk about this later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8160	Thank you, too. The next replica is the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I congratulate you, colleague Mandic. In your debate, you really talked about the things you know about and I think about and I am sure that everyone in this Croatian Parliament, but in all of Croatia, it is important that we talk about this plan professionally without looking at it politically. What I still wanted to say, and here's what your colleagues said that it's important to ensure the population, so survival in this area. And that's settled with this plan, and that's very important, and it's about the agricultural areas that are within that spatial plan, and I'm glad that it's short for me to say except, that is, the only possible organic agricultural production, and on the other hand, I also agree with you for these reeds and Article 154 and the measures to prevent adverse environmental impacts mean to protect soil, air, water, flood, noise, fire. All this is about the complexity of one plan and how much time and knowledge, as well as the suggestions of people who live not only inside it but also the entire area in which the nature park is located. That's what I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8162	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8163	Here's a thank you to my colleague. In my discussions when concrete topics are even in my mind, I have no politicalization whatsoever because I want to engage in the adoption of such documents that will be useful not only for a month or two that will have a much more value. So whenever I answer, you won't get a chance to make any remarks about politics. I want to actively contribute here to a document that will be useful for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially for citizens living in the area of nature park.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8164	Thank you. We thus exhausted the list of registered representatives for the debate for 10 minutes. We're moving on to a five-minute hearing. On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this spatial plan, as colleagues said in previous exhibitions, and there seems to be a consensus today, which is rare in the assembly. This plan is made up of quality. It is made according to the postulates of the profession with respect to the legal procedure. Public debates have been conducted. The impression comes when it is read that it has covered all aspects of the management of such a complex system as the eco system of the Vran Lake. He also found some balance between the intensity to protect all components of the eco system but also to respect the lives of people and domicills in this area, the existence of traditional economic activities, as well as these new ones that are related to tourism and service. However, what is actually the motive of my reporting in this final debate, it is an appeal to disappear only on the development and adoption of this plan, a spatial nature park plan, rather than for the ministry to really dig itself hard into the decision to start implementing both preventive and repressive measures towards those who play the plans, according to those who devast space, towards those who threaten the eco system with unacceptable or illegal anthropological influence in space. Why did I say that? This morning reading the daily press, and based on the fact that after entering politics I haven't spent the last two and a half years in the immediate vicinity of the island of Žatan, I saw for the first time what it looks like. Some colleagues told me, but know the more detailed stories and oral surrenders I could not imagine what a man can do in a much stricter nature protection regime, from Nature Park Vransko Lake, we all know the difference between the national park and nature park. This happened in a country that claims to be a legal state, with the funding of institutions that are in charge of the law of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers, some people have worked to pay taxes, financed by people who have not done their job. That's much worse, what happened on the flat jack of gypicides a fellow Roman spoke of. As I also remember pictures from the childhood of that space, the area of the Kornati Islands, I responsibly claim that even when you implement the law and how you conduct it I do not want to prejudge it, of course, is a matter of the functioning of the rule of law, never again will Straight Jackal be the same. And that's why I'm asking you to transfer my dear colleague, Ivan Vrdoljak, from this Assembly of Assembly MPs at least my own, so I think with me right now everyone in this room agrees to step on those who are breaking the law. Otherwise, all the spatial plans and everything that we're going to vote here and what's going to be printed again on taxpayers' expense will not have any significant value. And finally, before I thank you for your attention, fellow Romans only briefly though we are coalition partners I will have to correct you, it's very ugly and I think everyone is, of course, sorry when in the eco system, a freshwater or marine eco system happens, but it's something that happens and killing a thousand pounds of fish is not one of the most significant, is significant. It happens in nature due to the drop in temperature, hypoxia, anoxia, due to the increase in salinity in this particular case and reference to that supporter I am and I personally support the idea that in how much the profession estimates that building a prisoner would produce results, to do so, but I think that the waist should be manifested before that because it is not the only coupling of the average, the coupling is and the complete limestone reef through which it circulates the sea, so let's not go into the cost of preventing something that happens in nature cyclically every few years, if it won't give results because too much money in this country over the past twenty years thrown into the wind. So, absolutely for that idea if the waist shows that she's justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8166	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs and agents. The honourable representative of the promoter, the deputy minister of construction and spatial planning, has no need to replicate. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a decision, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll stop working in the Parliament, continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the bill's proposal, amendments and additions to the general tax code. Thank you very much by 9:30 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-16-0.u8167	Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of the Spacious Nature Park Park Vransko jezero. The debate is closed. The promoter accepted an amendment submitted by MP Marija Vukbratovic. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes, 102 votes in favour, 7 abstentions, have been decided on a spatial plan of nature by Vransko Lake in the text as proposed by the applicant, together with the amendment adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee, I am giving the Committee on Environmental Protection the following conclusion: "It is proposed to the Ministry of Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia and to the Public Nature Park Vransko jezero to ensure, in order to preserve the phenomenon of the waters of the Vran Lake and the sea, and based on the existing and law of certain documentation and by observing the wider, the conditions for the realization of the prison on the Prosica to be defined, maintain a favourable regime and preserve the lake from over-saling." Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that this conclusion has been reached unanimously with 109 votes.
