ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22825	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Act. The Budget Act is a fundamental regulation governing budgetary processes of budget preparation, budget implementation, borrowing, accounting reporting, etc. and relations between institutions within the budget system at both national and local, or regional level. These amendments and additions to the Budget Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, were encouraged on the one hand by the need to strengthen and more clearly define certain provisions of the laws which have shown their uncertainty in practice and on the other hand by the intention that units of local and regional (regional) self-government are encouraged to participate in energy efficiency projects by exempting these projects from the limits for the level of debt of the total annual commitment that can represent a maximum of 20% of the revenue achieved in the year in which the unit of local debt is due. Amendments and additions shall determine the ways and conditions of short-term borrowing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Such borrowing is possible up to 9 months, with units of local and regional (regional) self-government not to be short-term in debt by taking new short-term loans or loans for reprogramming or closing existing short-term loans or loans. The provisions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget, i.e. the provisions on the implementation of the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government for a given year, are repealed. This strengthens the role of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the representative body at local and regional level in decision-making on allocation of funds in the budget, provides for the possibility of redistributing up to 5%, not only for budgetary items in the budget of the state budget users but also for the budget users of local and regional (regional) self-government units. The possibility of legislators and other rules and planning acts setting out provisions on the use of revenue shall be limited. The Croatian Parliament shall decide when determining the state revenue and expenditure in the state budget on the purpose of making use of the revenue. The 2009 Budget Law gives the government the possibility, i.e. to the mayor, to adopt provisional measures to balance the budget. This proposal provides for a period of 45 days in which the Government, or the Mayor, the Mayor, must suspend the execution of certain expenditures or expenditures due to the formation of new commitments for the budget or due to changes in economic movements. In addition to that, it is proposed to abolish the possibility of an unlimited application of the temporary suspension measures for individual expenditure and expenditure, because if these measures do not result in changes and additions of budgets in order to balance the budget within the proposed deadline. The Minister of Finance shall be empowered to, with the consent of the Government, be able to, in the current financial year,... the funds necessary for the repayment of the sovereign debt, whose maturity is in the following financial year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The height of the decision on temporary... They relate to the amount of expenditure incurred during the same period of the previous year, up to a quarter of total expenditure incurred without expenditure, not to income levels, as was the case so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was based on examples of best international practice. The scope of budgetary supervision is also defined more clearly. Such supervision may also cover the examination of business premises, buildings, objects, goods and other items of the surveillance entity, i.e. the determination on the spot of whether certain goods have been delivered, services carried out, devices and equipment put into use and the like. The legal framework for the more efficient use of EU funds, which will be available in the Republic of Croatia after becoming an EU member, is being improved. This makes it possible, among other things, to pay advances on commitments made under contracts for projects co-financed by EU funds without the need to obtain prior consent. The legal basis is given for the adoption of sublegislative rules introducing a system to combat irregularities and fraud in the use of EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22826	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I find that not. I'm opening a debate. The debate continues with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. First is the club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22827	Very briefly, Mr. President, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I don't think there's anything here that's controversial. Here on page 1, it states, among other things, that the Budget Law governs the management of assets, debts, public debt management, debt, debt, and so on. Among other things, the issue of EU funds is being settled here. This is where these extra budget users are arranged, etc. What does this budget consist of? General and special part, etc. So here, among other things, it is important to prepare units of local and regional (regional) self-government for the use of EU structural and cohesion funds, given that the programmes and projects planned to finance from those funds must have a link with the strategic objectives and priorities and that may actually be the essence of this law itself. Next year, Croatia must pay if I am not mistaken for a billion kunas of the EU so that it can theoretically withdraw approximately 700m euros or approximately 5 billion kuna. However, the question arises, will we, as a country or as a unit of local self-government, be able to withdraw that billion, 700 million kuna of those cca 250m euros, how much will the state pay higher and higher EU entry, how much will we pay for that ticket? I believe we will. But I repeat, that billion kuna is huge money, and the question is, how many of us as municipalities, cities, counties, states are prepared for it. That's the central question I mean. Are we able to run, say, enough projects? Can we run these projects properly? It is clear that Europe will not develop Croatia. You should rely on that people's "Trust in your own pecs", you need citizens, you need to convince private companies to invest, you need to invest clearly and public companies, you need to attract foreign investment, but clearly EU funds in that development can help so many necessary citizens and countries as a whole. In 2014, Croatia could withdraw around a billion euros, twice as much, 30% seems to me to be our ticket somewhere. So as much as it is, somewhere around 10 billion kuna, we should invest for that ticket somewhere around 3.5 billion kuna. It's a lot of money, so we need to get ready to take advantage of it. On the other hand, it is said that if expenditures and expenditures and less revenue and receipts of the budget plan are increased in the course of the financial year due to exceptional unforeseen circumstances, it must be balanced by reducing expenditure or by finding new incomes and receipts. The new proposal also provides for a deadline for the Deputy Minister to discuss the 45-day period in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia may suspend the implementation of certain expenditures and or expenditures due to new commitments to the state budget or due to changes in economic developments on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Among other things, this new bill provides for the possibility of short-term task of units of local, regional or regional self-government. It is said here that the bill also encourages more active participation of units of local regional self-government in projects in the field of promotion, energy efficiency in such a way that the borrowing of units of local, regional and regional self-government for projects in this area is excluded from the amount of possible annual unit debt means 20% of the revenue achieved in the year preceding the year in which the local self-government unit is committed. Among other things, what is interesting about the inability to reprogramme a short-term task. Here was the budget yesterday and yesterday a de facto reprogrammed the old debt of the Republic of Croatia of about 15 billion kuna. I don't think based on this law that's gonna be possible. Perhaps that logic should be followed in some way at the level of local self-government. And as for the debt above 20% when it comes to energy efficiency facilities, I don't know about the construction of solar systems I don't know, some energy façades if that's what it's called small power plants and what the local self-government can be additionally debted for, maybe you should think about adding to that 20% so that one local government doesn't just leave the other one with only obligations and spend the funds in its mandate. But no matter what, I don't think this budget law is questionable. What is far more important is that the general tax laws are more accurate in the part or part that de facto "ukid" become an old common legal institute. All in all, the law is not controversial about the budget, it needs to be supported, and it is certain that it will be a far more important debate over the General Tax Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22828	Thank you very much. The next club is SDP's representative and respected representative Igor Radinovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22829	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to letting you and all the other colleagues and colleagues who were behind 11 yesterday, and now they're here to especially congratulate you for coming here and discussing with all of us the amendments and additions to this fundamental law, the Budget Act, which is therefore a basic plan-funding document assessing incomes and receipts and expenditures and expenditures of the state but also the units of local self-government for a year and of course projections for the next two years. In my debate in the good part, I will agree with Mr. Deputy Minister and my predecessor, Mr. Caine. I think he saw the most important points of this law. It is not easy to rewrite a general act which will then apply to all these units and which will actually prescribe and be able to prescribe all the situations that we have in practice. In this context, perhaps we should also consider the positioning of actually sharing powers, the responsibilities of certain units of local self-government, not that they are practically all in the same rank with the exception of possibly the City of Zagreb with a special law, but something similar the Minister of Finance announced here from his corner, and I believe from the corner of the Ministry of Administration i.e. units of local self-government, to and from this side, in some ways distinguish their practice in this area, but also in all other areas. As far as these changes and additions are concerned, they are generally consistent with practice and obedient, good examples of practice. Just before the meeting, we had a meeting of the Committee on Finance, so it was said that the preparation of this law consulted local self-government units so that they participated in this whole thing and of course it was seen and I believe that it was agreed on that side and that as Mr Cain said, there will be no bigger problems with its adoption. As regards therefore the proposed amendments and additions, it is proposed, among other things, to limit the possibility of proposing laws, other regulations and acts, planning to prescribe provisions on the purpose of using income to everyone other than the Ministry of Finance at the state level and to strengthen the role of Minister of Finance. But I think that this provision also helps the transparency of all laws and regulations, and we will simply be in this forest, you know that Croatia is a fairly standardised state, and as much as the laws are respected in practice, it is a very different issue, but I think that this denormity or compliance of the rules of these amendments and additions will help make the laws clearer, clearer and simpler. The second I dare say also technical change and good technical change refers to temporary financing, so the provisions so far in the event of temporary financing, so if the budget is not accepted, then the first three months of expenditure shall be carried out in accordance with the previous year. So far, it has been proposed to make it up to 1/4 of the revenue achieved in the past year, now going to expenditure here, and I think that this is a better solution, since it has therefore proved to be quite missing in the practice so far, because the dynamics of income can be on that side of the accident. It's a far better solution to be tied up here for expenses. The next amendment, mentioned my predecessor, is the case where it is necessary due to unforeseen circumstances, so if the reduction of income and receipts or any major unexpected event occurs at expenditures and expenditures, if they certainly increase, then we and all units of local self-government are obliged to adopt temporary measures to balance the budget and suspend the execution of individual expenditures and expenditures. In practice, the Executive Body therefore adopts those amendments and is then obliged to suspend these amendments and amendments within 45 days. In practice then comes and is always really good, it is not necessary but it is good that especially if these changes and complement something more significant nature to then, through changes and additions of budgets, also the representative body of the unit of local self-government. This law does not foresee, but it is possible and you also know from practice that I do not speak more specifically about it now, that these changes are really significant and that two examples can happen in practice. Therefore, the Executive Authority, the mayoral authority, does not propose to amend and supplement the budget at all and the representative body considers that it is still important that these measures are temporary suspensions too significant to come to the representative body that adopts the budget. It's one variant, but it's through some other provisions practically that possibility that it's solved. It would be a bigger problem if the representative body did not bring about the amendments and the addition of the budget, i.e. do not agree practically with these provisional measures to suspend what is then happening in practice. Here we return to a law that has caused a lot of debate in first reading, so the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, i.e. The Law on Local Elections, which is in the first reading, and I am also suggesting that representatives of the Ministry of Finance as part of the regular elections that the Government has, of course, co-ordination in proposing the law that this possibility also foresees. I see Mr. Winkovic is nosing my head, so I'm on the right track as our chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government. The next amendment refers to its own revenues. The current regulation was therefore that own revenues could be used up to the level determined by the budget, it is possible in practice that these own revenues would be slightly higher and now they go into flexibility. I think it's a good solution so they can be executed above the amounts set out in the budget, and then it's the procedure of the rules which and what powers they have to get around it. It means a good technical solution. Another technical solution, a good solution, spoke of him in the opening and deputy ministers, so the power given to the finance minister that by borrowing in the current financial year may affect the funds needed to repay the government debt whose maturity is in the next financial year and that is possible if you have a timing that is at the beginning of a certain period i.e. Next year. I think it's a good idea for the Minister of Finance through this law to give that trust, especially to allow him to be a little more free. While Finance Minister Slavko Linic I don't think we'll have a problem on that side. Two more changes I've noticed that are here. They were also mentioned in previous discussions. One is, therefore, the possibility of a short-term task i.e. The attempt to make local self-government units laugh, so they should be in charge in the short term. It wasn't specifically prescribed. We now say to these amendments and additions to the law that this is the longest of 9 months, and that by taking new short-term loans or loans, this must not happen for the sake of reprogramming or closing existing short-term loans and loans. A good solution from the point of view, so the control of public finances, because I say in practice through short-term debt, it's not good that you practically have a cover-up year by year, actually a task on the same basis if there's a need for it. Then the long-term solution is far better, more honest, more accurate and in the end line and a cheaper solution than a short-term task. And I think this is good. And finally 10 changes as I have marked it myself here is therefore the possibility of units of local self-government and their actual strengthening of the ability to participate more actively in energy efficiency promotion projects by, therefore, excluding projects from that group and those purposes from the amount of possible annual debt, so these 20% of the revenue achieved in the previous year. Because alone, so... projects should return themselves because in this reasonable period of time, with the incentive of these projects themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think there is any danger that there might be major responsibilities and that this is also a good measure that will be well accepted in, therefore, units of local self-government and allow in the ultimate line and development of that activity, and wider Croatian economies in the area. Here are my colleagues and colleagues, through these ten good changes and the addition of this important and complex law, to conclude that, therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22830	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single replica on your exhibit. It's the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22831	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I have to look back on one thing. Mr. Rajenovic, you said it was good to limit it to 9 months of short-term responsibility for local self-government and that it is good to limit it in this way and that it is not good for local self-government to extend this short-term task. Well, I have to say, I don't think so out of practice. I think it's good that local self-government can have the possibility of short-term debt, because it comes down to one, so we can say the allowed minus in the account as it is I don't know it in the citizens' current account and that it can often help to overcome difficulties well. Because we know it's very difficult to get a long-term task, that we have to deal with consent, that it's basically one of those very demanding missions that local self-government has. So I think it should still be here for at least 12 months and that it shouldn't take a financial year at the very least and that it shouldn't be limited to it being banned at some other time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22832	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the respected representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22833	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree, colleague Hrg with you, I may not have been precise enough. So I'm not against short-term debt, and this proposal is not against short-term debt either. In fact, for the purposes of this, we know what things we're in debt for in the long term, which things we're in debt for in the short term. Some short-term duties need and must remain, simply have to enable technical functioning, but in the short term as Mr. Shucker has shown nicely he cannot, should not and should not become long-term, and that is right here standing. Therefore, it is not good that this provision is in order not to close new short-term loans and loans to them and to make them practically a long-term profession. Clearly, such examples were in practice, which is not good in two ways. First, we cheat on ourselves because on this side of the country has no control over borrowing itself, and on the other hand, the local self-government unit itself is actually more expensive to pay those loans because the short-term credit is always more expensive than the long-term loan. Not even good for a local self-government unit. Now whether nine months, six months, a year we can talk about it. I believe that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance have managed to do so with, therefore, the preparation of these budgets by consulting with all units of local self-government, and it is probably some sort of proposal that was most acceptable. But if I don't speak for them, they'll probably be able to explain it better. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22834	Thank you, too. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22835	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it is by nature about technical law, the law itself, as the proposer says in his explanation, prescribes rules for making all the budgets at all levels of the state, the planning process related to it and many other things. The law seems to me to be doing well those things that have so far been slightly less well arranged, taking into account the newly created situation with money leaving Europe and the money coming from Europe. And on that side it looks like a regulation that, in fact, there's not much to talk about. However, the law also implies, throughout its text in different places, the need for planning. The way it's described inside it is strategic planning, and that's a subject that's not technical. It is a subject that is essential and it is a problem that Croatia has since its origin and that is unsuccessfully trying to solve. This country is not quite sure how it should, at least it doesn't say anywhere, what it should look like in 10, 15, 20 years, which is the strategic direction it will support, which will force, which is some kind of auxiliary strategic direction, which is actually what good if it happens, and if nothing happens to anyone again. Such a situation is even more true in local self-government units. I hardly know the city or municipality or county that has a strategic plan in the sense that a picture has been drawn that this unit of local self-government should look 10 or 15 years from now. Everywhere in the documents local self-government writes we will build business zones, develop industry and develop tourism and, of course, a healthy diet. That's what we're all gonna do. How, in what way, where will actually be the accent, who will live in that place for the next 10, 15 years if the trend as it is today continues, how will these people live? There's no such thing. This law predominates in its good solutions that such strategic planning exists. And that's why he's good because I guess, and that's what he's gonna do, is force local self-government and state authorities to deal more seriously with strategic planning and what we really want or want. The last strategic plan I heard was in the '90s when President Tudjman said we could become a country like Switzerland in a few years. After that, it wasn't strategic plans, it was tactics, it was projects, but there was no strategy. The law also stresses the importance of the budget as a fundamental act of the state, an ongoing dish. And according to this bill and everything that we talked about yesterday, it's not just the numbers, it's the political attitudes that are hidden in those numbers, it's the thoughts that are hidden, so if you want political-philosophy thinking, everything that we've been talking about here all year, and everything that the government's been talking about all year. If the budget seems incoherent and inconsistencies, it means that there is an unsustainable and unconsistent thinking behind it. There is no more important act in the state in the course of a business year than the budget. It's contained everything inside. And all the legal provisions of the previous year have been established and all that we will establish in this House, as well as in the following year. There's a few solutions in there that I honestly don't understand the reasons completely. It's a good and detailed way to delay the debt to the state. The way is clear and the steps are precisely written, but I don't understand why, what does it actually serve and who does it serve? Why again allow this entry to a minus. I know that entering a minus sometimes can help a man, but if he can get rid of that entry in a minus on his account, and the same goes for the state and local self-government will be much easier and quieter. I think the legislation should prefer such solutions. The law also includes European funds, European money. On the one hand, the one that goes as our membership fee to Europe and on the other hand the one that comes to us. It's a frightening possibility that the money that comes to us should be at 30% level or below what we can get. So, to be at the level of what we pay or below. Of course it's not the subject of this law, but it's one of the questions this law opens. It opens up roads to our money in Europe and to European money in our budget, that is, our budgets. It will actually see the full efficiency not only of the government but of the entire government in this country. If we fail this time the money comes to make us bigger than the one that's leaving Croatia, then we're broke. Of course, I don't think we're going to be rich in European money and I think even less that Europe is going to develop us for some of its altruistic reasons. We have our instruments and instruments that could stimulate our development, these instruments are sitting in the National Bank, but we don't dare touch them. However, in such a trade with Europe at the very least, we must be in this group of countries that get more than they pay. We're too poor and we're too small to afford to be in this other group. Article 4 of the Law and then Articles 33 and 34 of the Development Programmes and describe it as a document of strategic planning. I hope that the ministry and the government will find instruments to control these plans so that they don't turn into sprawl into something that will be copied and only fill the houses, and without thinking what we really want with our city now, with our municipality, with our county and with our state. On one occasion, I tried to organise such a strategy with all political parties in the city of Karlovac, and it got stuck after the first meeting because people realized that the strategy was actually a set of plans. Come on I'll give five projects you give five projects they'll give five so we'll put it on the pile, see what we agree on, and what we agree on we'll leave the other one out. It's not that, it's just not that and it's not how strategic documents are made. A good solution to the law is also a procedure with extraordinary incomes that are much more freely used than before under this law. This flexibility, if accompanied by discipline, can produce good results. I find it dangerous that I would like to hear a reasonable explanation is a solution in Article 26 where it is said that the assets of the sale and replacement of non-financial assets of the state or local and regional self-government are used for a variety of things as previously written and then another sentence was written behind the payoff mark based on long-term borrowing. What does that really mean? We sell what's popularly called family silver because our debt came this way. I don't think that it can be and that it can't be a solution that the law prefers, and I think that the proposer should formulate it differently and remove this possibility from the law. You can't sell the property of local self-government to pay off the debt that was raised for some kind of project or something. All in all, the law is well-designed, the only objection I give him that is not a grudge that I give and which is not really a grudge against the law is the predominance of this strategic planning. Without strategic planning, this law won't mean much. I would be delighted if it turns out that the government has instruments to implement this strategic planning at all levels of the state. Croatian Labourists will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22836	Thank you very much. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's go in order. The first replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22837	Thank you, Mr. President. So I have to look again at the presentation of my colleague Vuljanić, namely we cannot generalise local self-government units and say there is no strategy. There are units of local self-government that have made certain strategies, so let's say I come from the town of Križevci and I will say that we have made a strategy for the development of the town of Križevci and it is financed from the pre-accession project of cross-border cooperation with the town of Barca. There's probably more cases like that. What I'd say is missing most is a state strategy in principle. Here we are thin, there I agree with you and without this state strategy and directions where the country is moving in principle at local level is very difficult to plan and create in the long term. But as for this short-term borrowing again, I'm repeating here that maybe we should limit and say what we can do. But we are running for various EU pre-accession funds projects. Their realization takes about a year, they're all pre-financing. It is too long a process for us and the process of obtaining all consent for the task of the unit of local self-government, in this way we can react in principle spot-on, intervene pre-financing of EU projects, and after that when the payment of funds is started to cover it. Here's why I'm warning you about this part and I don't think it's really a good ban and it's not good that it's 9 and it's supposed to be 12 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22838	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22839	Thank you. My colleague, I'm glad to hear this, actually. I said I didn't see the strategic plans of the local self-government unit and what I saw the documents I saw a lot of them, there weren't any. If you have them, I'm very happy. As far as this borrowing is concerned, whether the general idea and the finance minister was in charge of pre-financing of EU funds, whether the idea of the finance minister was that this was precisely what the HBOR had to do to serve as the core function of the HBOR so as to support both the state and the local self-government units in that part of pre-financing that you must pay for in order to be able to join the project at all. If you're thinking of that kind of borrowing well, it's justifiable minus because it's going to be minus on the bill very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22840	Thank you, too. And the next replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22841	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vuljanic, I noticed the same quote as my colleague Hrg was talking about that there is no municipality, an environment that has no strategic plan. There is, however, no dispute, we also have our own in cooperation with the Development Agency and projections and visions and plans. If he needs to be reprimanded and that's not a question, we'll take him. But I would like to warn you of another circumstance, these circumstances of uncertainty, mainly in rural areas where we talked yesterday about the situation in agriculture, where the existence of these farmers is threatened, will not be worth any strategic plan. People will leave in the struggle for existence, they simply have no survival, the opgs fail, and then eventually these plans, and all that's built, will be for some tourists who will come. Those tourist guides will speak to these tourists here you see people here once lived people who raised cows and produced milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22842	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22843	When I was talking about strategic planning, I wasn't thinking about projects that every unit of local self-government has. We're going to build a school, kindergarten, road, nogostop, infirmary, and so forth, that's not a strategic plan. The strategic plan is something else, something more long-term, wider and more elaborately answers the question of how we see ourselves through a certain period of time. It's also very dangerous in a situation where there isn't a shortage of plans, and now we're just going to quickly patch up the holes so much that we survive by tomorrow. We can survive until tomorrow, but not the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22844	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22845	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, you are constantly talking about strategic planning at the level of the Republic, at the level of the government. So this law is essentially a life law that implements these strategic plans and enables local self-government units in a way that can strategically plan and implement projects that are related to the European Union and European funds. And it is also clear in the strategic plan for the development of the Republic of Croatia and the development of the economy, energy efficiency by allowing this law that units of local self-government can adequately move and think without having that burden of 20%, which is essentially a good part of the local self-government units at this point. You also mentioned the entry of the state budget to minus. So this isn't about entering the state budget at all, because it can't be and can't be, and it's quite and completely clear. What is essentially ensured in this law is that part of the budget allocated for this year is used for this year, and that all that reaches on the first days of January can be provided and goes into the budget next year, making the maximum use of the funds following the financial year usefully according to the budgets which this and next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22846	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22847	That's right, buddy. This document, this law provides opportunity and requires strategic planning. What I said is find the instruments to make sure it's a strategic plan, not a bunch of projects like we thought of in one government or another, because it's known what happens to such planning after the one-party elections that the government has planned. When the election comes, the first thing we do when we change them is we empty the drawers in the trash and we start over and then it all starts over and over. The state budget can't go down, the state budget comes down to minus every year, it's called the budget deficit and the state budget is down to 10, how many billion. Okay, maybe today has to be, maybe it doesn't have to, but let's create a situation to make it an exception, not a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22848	Thank you, too. It is the HDZ's Club of Representatives and Honored Representative Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22849	Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. Here is this law that is before us it is, in fact, less changes in a very extensive law which, as we all know, regulates how to prepare, make, implement budgets and control of enforcement. So it's actually a fundamental law that regulates the budgetary process. What I am actually interested in at the outset is what was said yesterday during the debate on the budget when the Prime Minister said that the budget that was discussed yesterday was the last budget adopted in the planning and production process as it has ever been. I understood from this that the Ministry of Finance would prepare a new Budget Law, which in a new, different and better way would regulate the preparation and planning of the budget. This is always possible, so I'm actually interested in the proposing whether the finance ministry is working and preparing activities related to yesterday's prime minister's announcement. In fact, we have so far thought and thought that this very budget law that we are changing today in these technical details is in line with European practice and that is why I think in 2008 and the whole new law has been passed. But I suppose it can be better, so I'm curious whether such a new law will regulate budget preparation in the Ministry of Finance and Labour in a different way. As for these changes ahead of us, of course, as previous speakers have noticed, they are in the largest number and most important and the only fundamental change here is the issue of borrowing units of local self-government. Obviously, here, of course, opinions and views on this issue are shared, but I believe that by opening up opportunities for local self-government units to be in charge in the short term it is necessary to define more precisely when and under what conditions local self-government units can be in charge in the short term. Then he tried to do it, say, saying there was no further possibility of reprogramming or refinancing of loans so taken. This can be written, but they can quite easily imagine situations in practice where such short-term loans cannot be returned and the needs of reprogramme and re-financing are opened. It therefore seems to me that I understand the reasons why it can be useful to enable units of local self-government to be in short-term debt, but in essence I only see these reasons in the financial flows that will be created using EU funds. Because in fact, these are the only financial flows that are possible to create a gap between the flow of funds and the moment of maturity. In fact, I see financial flows with EU funds as the only reason why units of local self-government would be allowed short-term debt. In other cases, in the case of other current costs, I do not see where there could be more significant gaps between the inflows of funds and the moment of the commitment. Local self-government units have monthly inflows of the size they have. They also have adequate current expenditure. The capital expenditure shall be subject to the procedure laid down in this Act. And the only new issue that arises and the only new issue that opens up is this flow from the EU funds. I therefore hold that this article 86a. Paragraph 2 should, in fact, be clarified. Because given the financial situation and by units of local self-government, their different financial strength, I think that without more precise definition one problem is opening up which can be developed in ways that are now difficult to assess, especially since it is obviously possible to transfer this short-term funding over the end of the year. This can, of course, have an impact on the overall financial picture of the state sector that it plans and which is essentially responsible for the Ministry of Finance. As for the issues of temporary financing and the determination of temporary financing by a quarter of the expenditure incurred in the previous year, we believe that this is a good solution. The determination of the amount of temporary financing at one quarter of the revenue achieved was a solution from the 1990s. It has shown its shortcomings in practice, and I think that determining temporary financing at the level of expenditure, one quarter of the expenditure of the previous year, is regulated in a much better and simpler way. We also believe that the provision allowing the transfer of funds from debt to the next calendar year due to the repayment of the debt due at the beginning of the year is also good in the context of the implementation of the budget and the security of recovery of government liabilities, since the month of January is really the month in which significant returns are due every year, and then always causes certain problems, and of course, in the return of those commitments, it must not be delayed. And finally, what I am stuck with about this law in Article 5, it is mentioned that the state body responsible for the development strategy will replace the term with the words of the ministry responsible for structural reforms. I may have missed out on the details that regulate the organisation of the state administration, perhaps I failed to identify which ministry would be responsible for structural reforms. Not even from the name of a ministry does it come out clearly which would be. Yesterday, there was also a lot of talk in the budget debate on structural reforms, and no minister recognized it there, not that we could conclude from that which ministry is responsible for structural reforms unless it might not be the Ministry of Finance, because it is in charge of finance. So I'm curious about what it really means in the context of the law that we are now introducing into the law an expression that at least to us in the HDZ Club is not clearly what it refers to and which institution it refers to. Here, these would be the main suggestions and main observations of the Croatian Democratic Community club. But let me also look back on this issue from this place. Is there or is there no Croatian strategy? So if you go to the Ministry of Regional Development website, then you will actually find that Croatia has a strategy, called the Strategic Framework for Development 2006. - 2013. What we are actually expecting right now, given that in 2013 we are here to get and see a document that will essentially outline the country's strategic development towards the next financial perspective and that will also be the basis for planning the use of EU funds and linking the overall vertical of strategic planning to make it more efficient to use these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22850	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22851	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleague spoke about the strategy, of course there was a strategy document, there were strategic documents before. I remember there in '96. such a thing was done by a document for Mr. Jure Radic's Ministry, he was a minister, he was called "Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia". I took part in it, we made a very nice book in which a lot of smart stuff was written across certain industrial branches, and so it ended up on a shelf and nothing ever happened to it. Why? Because it was a strategic document that brought one authority without the participation of anyone else. I would like to appeal to the work of such strategic documents to include all parties involved in political life today and who will possibly participate tomorrow as a government in political life. Otherwise the situation comes new power, empty drawers, this is left on the shelf or thrown in the trash. It's no use to anyone. Therefore, the way in which strategic documents are produced should be such as to include the opposition. Otherwise things don't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22852	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22853	Thank you very much. Well, I can only actually agree with my colleague Vuljanic, that's true. Because if we count how many strategic documents Croatia has made over the past 20 years then I think that number goes beyond 100 different strategies. And I didn't mention the strategic document for no reason precisely because it was at this point trying to develop itself in the context of consultations and partnerships with different participants in society, employers' associations, non-civil society and various other groups. I think the opposition parties were invited back then. So in this context, and this EU accession, I think it also brings a positive effect from the many that we expect or have already happened because of this process because there is no other way to make strategic documents for the preparation and use of European funds and bring them except in such a partnership, so I think it is also laid down by the Regional Development Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22854	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative of the Iron Happy Flego. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22855	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dalic's aside now relatively academic and technical question whether it's worth it in today's dynamic world to do something called a strategy because the whole series of experiences indicates that the moment you put the last point on the text of the strategy and the strategy becomes obsolete, it's actually much better to do some orientations. But I am much more interested in something else, not only did regional self-government have a strategy, the whole series of resolutions had several strategies from 2006 to 2011 or until 2012 or until 2013 etc. What I am interested in is whether you have ever tried in peace and quiet with your concentration to determine what happened to those strategies in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012? Is it anything, and if it's anything, which of these strategies, and if anything is achieved, is it essential in the strategies that you've drawn up? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22856	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22857	Thank you very much. With the first part of your comment, I'd say next, I agree. Because the question is what each of us actually thinks when it says strategy. When I say a strategy, what I mean is, in fact, establishing the fundamental principles and objectives that a society or state wants to achieve. I don't mean by strategy, especially at the state level, to determine exactly what anyone will do. It belongs to some other spheres and some other documents. And as for this other one, if I've ever thought about it, I have. I have actually devoted a lot of time to the answer to the question why in our strategic documents, however much less or more quality is why everything is generally well written exactly the way it should be written for a market-based modern market economy based on private ownership of entrepreneurship and competition. And much of course ink in those strategic documents was spent on the question of what the state should do. And I have found that there is one gap between what strategic documents say and what is actually happening is there is still doubt and speculation about private entrepreneurship, according to competition, according to the principles of the market economy whose incentive then also determines the way strategies are directed and led by economic policy. And I must also tell you that this conclusion is still valid, no matter what the color of the government has changed. But I guess that's about the fact that policy experts don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22858	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22859	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Minister. Someone called this law a living law if I understood it correctly. And since I always go "and medias true" I will call this law which is allowed by the gods is not ox, given the state's attitude towards local self-government, state law and the right of local self-government under this law on amendments to the Law on the Budget itself. This law opens above all, and a series of issues without entering strategies into strategic documents. This government and that former government have brought a series of strategies, the development of the Republic of Croatia that have been going since certain years, so we are, for example, during this former government in 2009 brought a strategy from 2008 to 2012.itd, etc. So the strategy itself and there I can agree with some that it should first and foremost be consistent with all the factors of political life because no one is forever nor here in the Croatian Parliament is the forever of government, parliament, parliamentary representative, mayor etc., etc. The basic issues and the basic question that this law on amending and supplementing the Budget Act opens up again is the issue of fiscal decentralisation, the whole time again on behalf of the HDSSB club and that is what the HDSSB has been looking for all along, and we heard yesterday that a gradual decentralisation is being prepared, but decentralisation that is primarily in power and will not follow through education and healthcare will not be so much followed by monetary decentralisation itself. I would like to remind you that at this point, only 3% of the total tax revenues are accounted for by both income tax and real estate tax, I do not mean this property tax that has not yet been agreed and which is in one longer public debate until the profit tax itself, and VAT tax itself or value added tax. So the legitimate question is whether only 3% of these funds end up in local and regional self-government and 97% of these funds during HDZ that ratio was to be fair and to them was 92% in favour of the state, including the city of Zagreb towards local and regional self-government. In the area of announced centralisation, an even greater centralisation was made in this part, although it was also extremely bad because in European countries this ratio is moving differently in many countries and the lowest revenues towards local self-government units range between 20% and 30%, therefore, from total tax revenues. So it's another world. We are moving into the EU to bring amendments and additions to the Budget Law, prepare for structural cohesion funds, and this is precisely why the financial opportunities of local self-government units are, in fact, the willingness of local and regional self-government to participate and withdraw funds from the EU funds. First of all, this applies through the preparation and production of projects that must certainly be in line with European standards, but many units of local self-government today in Croatia do not have the resources in their budgets to prepare and design these projects. This is what rare cities have at the moment, small cities that have managed to do so in cooperation with certain state institutions, but almost 98% of local self-government units are not ready or can be prepared but have no financial opportunity to enter and design a project. And yesterday we talked about that first of all, there should have been a position in the state budget that would have been aimed at making EU projects and that would have made it possible to withdraw those funds. I will not enter the statistical division of the Republic of Croatia now, but certainly the budget should have provided funds for the development of projects. So certain items of this law are therefore not in line with the practice which is and will be in Croatia. The second question being raised here in any case is the question of borrowing itself. Believe that no bank, business bank other than those who gave management loans, will be without guarantee to repay the loan to either citizen or company other than management loans, and we have witnessed that it was not going to give it to the state or the Republic of Croatia, and thus not to the unit of local and regional self-government unless it is returned. The entire time here is mentioned consent of the Ministry of Finance, the agreement of the Ministry of Finance at 20% for long-term borrowing. Sometimes this job comes at all to the agreement of the Ministry of Finance extremely painful, extremely difficult because many of these consents are also marked by party similarities, are not marked by the real state and needs of local self-government units who are the only one responsible for returning the loan. The question of the reprogramme of these debts, and this raises the fundamental question, if it is possible for the state through the state budget to reprogram all possible obligations, if it is possible to immediately plan the government budget deficit, so no borrowing, but through the realisation of the budget, and this year we will reach about 11 billion kunas of new commitments. We're planning an 11 million kuna deficit in next year. I don't see why it would allow local and regional self-government units to do so through a law like this. So there's the planning of the deficit itself because today you have to be aware that this is a really centralized state. I don't now think of any authority to units of local self-government such as this law on preschools that didn't allow and through the budget that it would be financed from the state budget, but that notice was thrown to the local self-government unit. That especially in undeveloped parts of Croatia, there has been a fall in budget in all municipalities, districts, cities, and no one has objected to an untaxable part of the salary being increased here. But there has been a fall, above all, due to an increase in unemployment, but also because of the extremely low wages because the salary in Slavonia is not the same as the salary in Zagreb where the averages are different. The average in Slavonia is far lower than this average in Zagreb and developed parts of Croatia. So there is also a legitimate question, if the state can plan a deficit in a basic budget document, why can't the units of local self-government and regional self-government do so. The next question is short-term borrowing. So I didn't hear a single bank set a short-term borrowing requirement for nine months, three months, six months. Why can't the state be in charge of nine months if it's in business, budget business so favourably. On the side of the fact that certain short-term commitments become long-term, but be assured that no bank that gives a certain limit to short-term borrowing on the basis of budget possibilities and local and regional self-government will allow you to step out of a specific framework that is related to short-term borrowing. So if this happens and goes through the budget I suggest that the law enables citizens to do the same, and it is likely to appear in practice, that certain units of local and regional self-government will simply pass, don't take this as an ad but to this ironing card. Many have experience in this, so they will get here and on 24 wars paying their commitments. So I believe that through this separation, the rights and obligations of the central state and the units of local and regional self-government are set up by a large gap between the state in that narrow sense and the state in a broader sense. The bill provides for more active participation of units of local and regional self-government in projects in the field of promotion and energy efficiency in such a way that the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government for projects in this area is excluded from the amount of possible annual borrowing of 20% of the revenue achieved, etc. So this 20% amount was sometimes not possible to achieve certain projects, and the bank allowed you to borrow above, because you have revenue from the budget that allows you through one long-term loan to repay those liabilities. The question arises whether energy efficiency is the only thing that can get Croatia out of the crisis and that local and regional units can therefore be in debt. Why isn't that a waste management issue? Why isn't that a question of water protection? Why isn't that a road connection issue? Why isn't this all municipal infrastructure? Why is this not, after all, the development of the economy? Why isn't it building industrial zones? So I don't understand why it's just energy efficiency. Not wanting to get involved inside, nor was it my intention to enter into such a relationship at all. So, I think here from this debate, first of all, I note that what I'm going to end up with, that what applies to the state should apply to all citizens and to the units of local and regional self-government. Because not wanting to, above all, break the laws, and you also have the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I think this is an extremely badly written and bad proposal, a bad bill, especially that concerning the sole borrowing of local and regional self-government and short-term borrowing. But I also believe that this would be avoided by law given the real situation in all parts of Croatia when planning a possible deficit, and here I agree that it should not be a rule, but it should be an exception, an exception in the state as well, an exception in local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22860	Thank you, Your Honor. We've registered three replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22861	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Vinkovic, you are mayor so you understand this problem but you, you don't have to wonder why this law is, why it is proposed in this way, why it is proposed to harm local self-government because simply the Croatian state is a centralised state which you have established yourself, so that these changes are only making the scope of the operation at local level even stronger and stronger management, and so we say that local self-government is being hampered. Instead of having decentralisation as announced in the final case and before the previous parliamentary elections we now have an even stronger one centralisation, we will be even more in the ring, even more difficult to function, even more difficult to solve for local self-government. Personally, in the role of mayor on two or three occasions, I sought the consent of the Ministry of Finance to reprogramme loans. The conditions were much more favourable than the ones we inherited, but it went very hard and lasted a few months each time. After all that is important to say is also the time period when it can be obtained, since there is that guarantee fund, the state and when it is spent no longer, it means getting into a situation at all to obtain the guarantee from the Ministry of Finance, or the consent of the Ministry of Finance. So again for the third time and I'm not going to be apostrophe today, I'm asking you to really think about it and to see that local self-government doesn't tighten up, that it doesn't shut us down, that we're allowed to work normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22862	Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22863	Dear colleague, I am not surprised at anything, I have long stopped wondering as they stopped wondering and all the citizens of this Croatia. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I'm not saying it right now for the past year. That's what I was talking about for eight years while HSS was in power, so you had that profit tax game, where it was taken to the company headquarters. It was not good and a direct to the state budget was transferred. It wanted to weaken then Zagreb, many units of local self-government were weakened, not just Zagreb. Djakovo was also weakened, although certain companies had headquarters at Karlovac, Zagreb, etc. But even this new government's intention is not decentralisation specifically not fiscal. On the other hand, this is complete, I'd say and dare say complete nonsense. To enable and tell someone that you can be in charge of the short term for 9 months. So, you're in charge at nine months or one month. You have to return all that short-term to 1.10. What about those two? In practice, you can then take another two months of short-term debt, but there are other illogicalities that are related, for example, to temporary financing. Here is now not the budget for this coming year in local and regional self-government by a temporary financing decision that lasts for the longest three months. What do we do in the fourth and fifth? Who's going to be the town's grandmother, in the community, in local self-government, regional self-government? The Minister of Finance or the IRS will come and determine the rules of the game there. So there's this law of elements for another reading first of all, because here you're re-hitting a direct to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22864	Thank you very much. The next second replica and respected representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22865	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, as usual, my colleague Vinkovic has a stronger rhetoric. In these amendments and additions to the law I said a little stronger rhetoric. [[/Intruder Vinkovic: What have I got?]] In these amendments and additions, it does not affect so much, you have relocated with a broader regulation and this law in its basic variant, and in these amendments and additions there is not and generally in the position of local self-government. So, and you called for Mr. Minister's announcement yesterday and in fact incorrectly quoted him as saying he would lower his powers in local self-government if he came and when it came to a new decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. And I remind you that this level of decentralisation has also been done by the former government over the past eight years, which I agree with you, nothing has happened in that field. Then it's not just responsibility, it's power. they will be heard together with the powers and with responsibility will be reduced and the finances will be reduced and fiscal responsibility will be reduced, and in fact, it is the basis of this whole thing, and it is part of that story about real estate tax. That's exactly the story of real estate tax would be one stable source so the units of local self-government and the ability to manage so with their community. I was going to say that around these ESCO projects and about the return. You must take into account that this law is written from the position of the Ministry of Finance which provides for macroeconomic stability in principle when these assumptions are realized I say, and when local self-government can manage its properties quality then this regulation should in some ways be loosened and I agree that the projects you have been talking about are municipal garbage burners etc. that they can practically be financed by something more flexible. Here and in these circumstances, it is therefore ESCO projects, energy efficiency projects which, by their definition, return themselves and as such are certain security guarantees that the money invested, so they themselves must only be a question of the return of that investment. They are not a financial burden for in this case local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22866	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22867	Well, there's no esteemed colleague Igor strong or weak rhetoric. I may speak louder since I can hear and hear me because, for example, I don't hear the chairman talking or knowing what's going on from here, but I listen more carefully, and then I get to hear it. 'Cause it's pretty unheard of. And now I've heard you weaker. You mentioned decentralisation, what the minister said yesterday, so if it comes down to the way that school is now reduced where many schools no longer have credit and sponges and not for those pills that are divided so beautifully in Rijeka, they are not divided into district schools in Đakovština. If that's the case, then I'm against such decentralisation. If this applies to health care where the minister says he has no money for a student's maternity home, it will be left to the city of Djakov and Osijek-Baranja County against such decentralisation itself. I'm for fiscal decentralisation. Let's change the ratio and see if the state could live off 3% of the income? There wouldn't be, there wouldn't be so many ministerial assistants, there wouldn't be so many ministries, there wouldn't be so many cabinets, there wouldn't be so many offices, etc., etc. Now, that may be rhetoric, but this is a complete nonsense to allow someone to be in charge for nine months. Well, citizens are in debt for 36 months and are now paying for an increased gas war or buying themselves a stove or a washing machine, or a washing machine Croatian, or a kitchen, or I don't know what. We'll bring units of local self-government here so they can't function because they're not all Zagreb. Some of them are also called Dubbabs, where that overpass of Sanader came down, they just pass two, three cars, I guess, if there is one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22868	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if you can't hear me, we'll try to strengthen, otherwise my point is that the power of decibel is vice-proportional to the argument. Thank you very much. The next replica and respected Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22869	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament here, I will try to be neither so nor loud. Dear colleague, why local self-government in this law does not have the opportunity to include other projects, so you talked about waste etc. Of course, the waste is certainly something that is strategic and that because of what we have found at this point, or by taking over power, we are aware that we are likely to have to solve waste at the state level because local and regional self-government are not capable or able to solve it. And what is the energy efficiency here for? A brief and clear thing that only returns investment, i.e. credit does not create an additional obligation for the budget of local self-government or what is particularly interesting, which is particularly important and what needs absolute emphasis does not create any new commitment for citizens is therefore in this here essentially law. And that's why this is in there and it opens up investment space.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22870	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22871	Often a distinguished colleague, but it was a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Decibels, but those decibels and you, Mr. President, always end up with citizens. So then they'll determine if you were so very smart while you were talking to that pay phone of yours or me here from this place. They'll evaluate us by leaving it to them. And leave my decibels to me. My colleague Gjurkovic, it is the fact that I believe that it is not just energy efficiency. For example, there is another option that is related to energy efficiency to simply rent space for a certain number of years, to keep it in your possession afterwards, and thus you have neither short-term nor long-term debt etc., etc. But I don't want to talk about it. This law is above all and again, so I say what is allowed to the gods is not ox, so the state has the right to be in charge, to plan deficits, short-term, long-term debt, to pay interest, to make reprogrammes, to make various acrobatics, while there some local self-government leader probably came out of the zoo, so louder story, he has no right at all, and the citizens chose him. He has to ask the distinguished government gentleman of the ministry, I could be in charge if I don't have the basic needs of local self-government. And I'm saying that no business bank that holds onto itself will give anyone credit if they can't get it back. That time has passed. And we are constantly legalizing such a thing in the law on amending and supplementing the Budget Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22872	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 10.40 minutes have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We are now moving on to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The HNS club and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic are the first shares and other respected representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22873	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The HNS Club therefore supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law. So we join that debate which essentially clearly points to everything and most of the positive effects of adopting these amendments and supplementing the law, and we absolutely disagree with the view that local self-government is essentially further limiting and preventing this bill. As it can be essentially limited, it is ensured that energy efficiency projects are exempted from the legal limit for the level of borrowing, and we know that it is 20%. So far, it's no longer restricted. We are being opened to an extremely large space of absorption of EU funds, it is a great task to prepare these projects, and this law essentially provides what to the state, which is to ensure that local self-government can be prepared, that it can pay certain advances, that it can realise as easily as possible that this flow of funds is important, and that flow is often not planned to be implemented in order to be able to realise it. The investment cycle through a strategy that exists, particularly in terms of energy efficiency, is something that goes down to local or regional self-government. So it's a space where local self-government can if it has abilities, if it has knowledge, if it has initiatives to realize and help the economy, but also save on energy which on facilities that are in local self-government, and which, of course, is related to those facilities managed by companies owned by local self-government. and we are all aware that it is an extremely large number of objects and we are all aware that electricity consumption is extremely large and non-economic. And that's the investment space. So one law that essentially regulates the budget opens up an exceptional investment space and withdraws funds from the EU. So the funds that we don't have, which provide us with others on conditions that are very complex, we all know together, but whoever gives us the means, of course, that it's clearly non-refundable, clearly expects us to do it in an adequate way. And there's actually only one problem. How much our local self-government is willing and able to withdraw funds, prepare energy efficiency projects, and it's good to open a competition where you see real who knows, who can, who prepares, who does better with his team in local self-government. This issue of credit borrowing opportunities for 9 months, therefore another issue of a new space in which the Government, the Ministry of Finance, with these amendments and the additions to the Budget Law, opens up space for projects specifically requiring certain start-up funds to be realised through short-term borrowing. Thus, even in this segment, there was absolutely no space for local self-government, but a space for local self-government is being opened so that it can be much more active under these investment projects of energy efficiency and EU funds. What is highlighted and should be reiterated once again that the decision on temporary financing is related to the amount of expenditure incurred during the same period of the previous year, and not to the amount of revenue that has been the case so far, and that is one good thing that I would often say life's thing. It is more clearly arranged to include budgetary supervision which is extremely important because it often happens and we are aware that local self-government knows or the leaders of local self-government can be "played" with certain responsibilities and then of course who is guilty, it is the government's fault. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Budget Law open up space to local self-government for investment and the HNS club supports this law. A fellow Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22874	Dear Representative Marijan Skvarić, part two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22875	Thank you, Mr. President. Deputy Minister. So when we talk about the Budget Law and when we define what it is, the budget is always an emphasis that it is a basic plan and financial document. An emphasis on the foundation. The second emphasis is that this act must be defined on the principle of sound income management and expenditure. Emphasis on the principle of good governance. And that's what really happens on these principles and those mistakes that a good master, the mayor so works that his city or municipality is already a long number of years in a minus, that he can't pay the electricity, that he can't get paid, for the mayor more or less, but he can't pay his aunts in kindergarten and in some other things. That's what really needs to be control. It also encourages more active participation of local self-government through development plans. What does that mean? We all want... zones, we want sewers, we want garbage dumps and other capital investments. These are investments that far exceed the strength of local self-government and regional governments. What we are given is an opportunity, which opens up much greater use of the European Union funds and this is our opportunity and opportunity. I would put more emphasis on that part because for... the European Union funds there are several specificities. The first much more funds are being opened and in that part of the specificity is that we must finance these funds... from the European Union funds in full in order to recover one part of the funds from the implementation of this programme and projects through a request for eligible costs. Whether it's 50%, 80 or 90% depends on the areas and other conditions as such. It means that local self-government could finance such a capital project it can measure its sources of revenue that based on current budgetary revenues that are realised, whether based on short-term or long-term planning. So what I want to stress is that it is a good thing that in this part of the law on inability to attract and use European Union funds we can use the possibility of paying off advances and that is important to us. Believe me, some project house, a house that you need to do something for this project, is always looking for an individual advance to be able to adapt its capacities, resources to you. The second is that the short-term lending of cash is made possible, and this is because of liquidity and payment of liabilities to maturity which is the cornerstone of financial flows management. Short-term. For some bigger things, we have a long-term possibility of borrowing. And what is good about this long-term borrowing is that the exemption for 20% of the revenue achieved in the year preceding the year in which the city or municipality is in debt and for projects in the field of energy efficiency and especially for funds from the European Union funds. Now, only if the 20% so far has it been... we know why, is an example of good asset management on the income and also on the expenditure side to still see what that is and maximum debt. If some purifier is somewhere for some level of 2 to 3 000... the user unit costs 5 to 6 million kuna municipalities that need to do this has a budget of 3 million kuna, then this 20%, or that lower limit, will mean nothing to her. Whether she can assign herself four times or more to realize the project. So it must be introduced in this section that someone above that 20% for such larger capital projects from the European Union funds must assume responsibility and the possibility of co-financing. I would particularly like to mention one more thing about the European Union funds. When you finance these projects from the European Union funds, it goes through one account. Now that's a problem because local self-government had to work with one business bank over one account. It's possible if capital investments in the long term are planning themselves, then you know which project prevents you from realising, you know how much it costs in some way and you can make one fiscal plan means income, expenditure to finance it. And with the European Union funds most often happen to you when you are running for a project you never know when it will be approved. Sometimes it gets approved somewhere in the middle of the year. And one more thing, you have to finance yourself through HBOR which is a good thing with very favourable conditions. What if your business bank where you have an account has no contract and accreditation through HBOR. You can't get those funds under such favourable conditions and you're forced or you're looking for a bank that has or is looking for other solutions. To change a bank somewhere in the middle of the financial year, someone who did it knows what the cost was, first of all, and how much time and effort it takes to do it. You usually don't have time to get those resources to solve in that part. Examples of good practice are some... where you are allowed to do it through a particular sub-account where it is good and because of the practical being I said so so you do not need to do that part of all the funds transferred to another business bank... another account is transparency, when you have this subcalculation through which you do all these projects from the European Union funds then you can certainly plan well and transparently not only from the lowest local and regional level but also from the state level. Here's a case to tell you, when a trust asks you to justify the costs of one of the costs... because you're the ones who have the funds in the account of whether you've got any interest for them. If you got interest then they don't give you that cost. How will you account for interest when you have in a global way these funds along with the other funds you have for the city in that part. Here's an experience that I can say that should be taken care of. I say we really welcome these good legislative proposals as far as the Budget Law is concerned, that these programmes and the funds that we will implement from the European Union funds so that we can make the most of them. And I think it's also a term for the headship president who's a few places that should also see it and exclude it because these terms are no longer appropriate at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22876	Thank you, too. Now we have replicas. Honourable representative Branko Bačić, a replica of the first presentation of Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22877	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Gjurkovic, if I have heard you correctly, seems to me that I did, you have justified the introduction of a provision in the Budget Law that allows units of local self-government to be in debt and over 20% of the original revenues of the previous year for energy efficiency projects said that and you welcomed such a provision by stating that these are projects that are being implemented to be expected to be funded from EU funds, from EU funds, and then if that is how you say they should not have been. In fact, already now in Article 88(5) of the existing law, it is possible for local self-government units to borrow more than 20% for EU-funded projects. Therefore, for the purpose of such a need for units of local self-government to be in charge of energy efficiency raising projects, there was no reason to introduce the Budget Law, I will talk about this later when I am in an individual debate about whether or not it is justified to allow units of local self-government to borrow more than 20% for projects in the domain of energy efficiency. But if that was the reason you cited, I say it should not have been because already in paragraph 5, Article 86 was made possible for all units of local self-government that projects co-financed by European funds could be debted, therefore, by 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22878	Replicate reply, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22879	I agree with you and on EU funds and borrowings, and my debate did not go that way, but in line with that one replica I had before. It is therefore an energy efficiency which pays itself within a certain period of time to ensure that the local self-government unit is able to make an investment out of those 20% of its borrowing potential, which pays itself back, and on the other hand saves on electricity. I agree with you and I know that and of course it was not the goal of withdrawing funds from the EU, but those items in these amendments and supplementing the Budget Law provide better, easier, faster implementation of European projects, i.e. withdrawal of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22880	Thank you very much. Another replica, also respected counterpart Gjurkovic, respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22881	Thank you. Well, here, Mr. Representative, maybe, given that there's a lot of myths around these funds, maybe here's a few cartoons of short demystification. So the overall estimate for the seven-year period if the current budget remains adopted is 13 billion euros, out of which the EU estimates that the Republic of Croatia could make maximum use of 10 billion euros. When a seven-year membership of the Republic of Croatia between 3 and 3 billion euros and a half billion euros is rejected, the amount of between 6 and 7 billion euros available during the seven-year period remains. When the most optimistic 20% of the stakes in all investments are rejected, and those that will appear there remain about five to six and a half billion euros maximum during the seven-year period. It's between 35 and 45 billion kunas maximum for a seven-year period of available free resources that we could actually get through some projects. It's been divided into seven years. Five to six and a half billion kuna a year for various infrastructure funds. This is approximately 5% of Croatia's GDP. So, I think it's good that we all agree that she and what? For those projects that will not bring directly any single job. So, directly none at all. They will create certain infrastructure, social preconditions for the development of the Republic of Croatia, but the workplace will not come from any of these projects. Therefore, it will be one of the levers of the development of the Republic of Croatia, but we will not be able to build our development, nor should we be envied that the development of the Republic of Croatia will be based on the use of funds from these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22882	Replicate reply, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22883	Dear fellow, you've done well in your mathematical judgment. I would just like to point out that in addition to the EU budget from which we can, from cohesion, structural and other funds, withdraw funds there are very many funds that are not directly related to the EU budget, and I have to stress this, and also today, so I believe that you know that because of your good withdrawal from Slavonia, even if they are not directly related to the EU budget. Will there be employment after the withdrawal? Of course it will be. They do not, of course, finance jobs and employment, but they create conditions that can be indirectly employed, that the economy develops, that technology develops, and then the logic of things clearly goes to employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22884	Thank you very much. The next replica of his fellow representative, Skuric, from respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22885	Okay, this is a replica of the opinion of the HNS Club, not just colleagues. All right, all right. [[Intruder president: No, no, colleague.]] I know what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Don't give me the time. Hang in there, you guys. [[Then stick to it, thank you very much when you know it. That's nice.]] Now don't take my time. Now, I've been talking to my colleague Caine for a while, because a colleague mentioned local self-government units, municipalities that have three million kuna budgets. For example... The original budget, unfortunately, which has 30,000 inhabitants, is not thanks to me, but to all that has happened, is 40 to 45 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Umag, which has 15 thousand inhabitants, has about 150 million, or 144 million kuna. We are now coming to what was and the debate just through that division of Croatia into two statistical regions where practically the Ministry of Regional Development has promised the EU Project Fund, now we see that this law is turning. So, you units of local self-government that don't have your own resources in the budget, please choose to be in charge. No ministry, no state to pay you for this project. In this way, you will not be able to participate in withdrawing funds from the EU. What will a municipality in Slavonia do? It probably needs to be abolished because there's no pay for a chief who's a volunteer but she's a unit of local self-government. What's she doing? What will those who go into the municipal infrastructure projects so they have to pay water contribution to the state and thus increase the investment? And one of those projects is expensive even for the city of Djakovo. It's about 2 million euros, but we got into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22886	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22887	Now that's the truth about withdrawing funds from the EU. It's a message to all the leaders who don't have a big budget you'll have to borrow to have projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22888	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22889	Mr. Representative, I am very aware of all these problems, and I have said, above all, on the basis of the experience of my city where we have implemented 8 projects from the EU Fund where the original budget income is 10 million kuna. And we got those funds more than our entire budget, and we didn't do it in debt. For eight years, the city hasn't been in liquid and any minus and not to mention many of the things we've contributed to the development of the city. So it's a matter of the responsibility of the head man and all, of course, of the city council and of all people to define themselves accordingly. But of course, we certainly must be followed at the state level. First of all, there is the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund. It needs to see what fiscal opportunities and capacities are so that they don't really happen, which is why I went to the EU Fund in the first place. So, for example, for four years back as a mountain-mounted area, I couldn't win a single kuna at the Ministry of Regional Development. And I had all the projects that went through me in the EU Fund, and I couldn't get any kuna from the ministry. So, within the ministry, we need to see what fiscal capacity is so that some city with 40 million kunas with 10,000 inhabitants gets even more funding, and cities and municipalities in northern Croatia, where we have a lot of people with less capacity, we get virtually nothing. We need to look very closely at regional development, this is our task and, of course, be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22890	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. The first is a respected representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22891	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. Here I am using my colleagues and my colleagues to take this opportunity to express my personal thoughts regarding the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law. I'm particularly interested in him for some reason, but I think like all other colleagues who, in one way or another, are tormented by the units of local self-government, so I'm going to show some of my interesting things to me that I'd like them to be dealt with by the budget law. In line with the recommendations made by the European Commission, the units of local self-government are the basis of economic activities, associations and implementation of social activities and are, in fact, of general importance for the general implementation of all possible economic activities, reforms and financial operations. This law provides for some misunderstandings that are unclear to me, and here I am, one by one. The overall development plan is therefore something equivalent to conditionalally said or at least a partial plan of local self-government development programs for a 3-year period with objectives, excuse me just a little bit, with development goals and priorities with a large part actually overlapping with an existing document that we must have as a strategic document in all units of local self-government. On the other hand, the 3-year period is questionable because the planned investment period is 6 years specifically linked to the EU's investment structural funds. So local self-government units, for example, in Germany have an election mandate related to the investment cycle, that's six years. The investment cycle is as much as we know about the Structural Funds 2014-2020. The correctness of business, the budget provides that budget operations must be carried out in the right way, of course, prescribed by supervision but does not provide for what if the proper functioning does not take place purposely using these funds other than infringements. What about the funds that are gone? And how, I'm going to give you this in what I have, like here, my own idea of noting the provisions that prescribe the possibility of postponing payments, write-offs, sales, partial write-offs or marginal debt payments, if that allows for improvements, the possibility of paying off debt. When it comes to units of local self-government, then it's a big problem because local self-government units have to help me find a legitimate way of repaying the debt without the local self-government units running out of property. Why? Because the vast majority of the assets are units of local self-government related to municipal maintenance and communal activity, it is also its core activity. This is precisely the case with Article 26(a) of the basic law which allows the sale or replacement of non-financial assets to be used for capital expenditure and local self-government units for investments but for the repayment of principals based on long-term borrowing. Why am I saying this? Because it's for example. taking over my unit of local self-government with the assistance of the State Audit established budget loss up to 6 months 2009 out of 36 million kuna. These are signed contracts with suppliers for jobs or services which are not in line with the budget plan and investment plan or by supplied goods implemented in the accounting of the city's budget when changes occurred. I know this doesn't interest anyone, it's nice to meet you, but here I am going to try to be loud enough anyway, so here at least if the Deputy Minister hears me. Because it refers to the possibility that my units of local self-government will be able to function tomorrow. Of this amount, only a debt to the state was found slightly less than $12 million. Of course, it has been reduced today, the situation consolidated, but in this way it has shown a false state in the budget. Of course, such a situation should be provided for by the Budget Law if that is at all important. There were also extra-bilitating responsibilities at the time where the city appeared as an exchange debtor, who did not apply to the Ministry of Finance of which around 40 million kunas were shown to the ministry by means of the ICJ form, again to show the budget differently to be within 20% of the possibility of new and additional borrowing. The current bill does not foresee that, of course, by counting on the proper work to be done. The burdens also took place through subsidies in formerly existing companies, e.g. TV Trogir, Trogir List, Glass of Dalmatia, it is conditionally told you everything related to something, so with the media and with sport. Before 2009 they were subsidized by the city and they did not provide even less of their core business. The largest service executed through a municipal city company to which large non-financial assets are linked. At that time, the municipal activity was organised in its own plant by a municipal company that seized the concession on waste collection and waste disposal and a private concessionary to the former director and the same utility company. All of this was found in the burdened budget in 6 months 2009 and many other nice transactions over 3.4 made in the total debt of about 10 million kuna. Today, the debt situation has mostly been reprogrammed with creditors and the state's liabilities return and partly towards the state because it has not been paid since half 2009. No taxes or... no fees for port administration, no electricity, no electricity connection to the defenders and what I know is something. Of course, why did it start in the middle of 2009? I don't know. Today the liquidity situation is good but it is still burdened by the remains of debts that could not be financed from the current budget and the city had to keep the property and property of its utility company that the bank or bank is hanging over, because I have never had a conversation and function with more banks in my life and which the utility cannot pay off the funds. Well, let me get back to this law. The law could predict such a possibility as I described for a little while. This means that it would be necessary to establish budget models of consolidation that would last shorter would be later precisely for such opportunities as have occurred and which are real. The borrowing to cover the business gaps provided for by this law is but should be extended significantly because the continuity of the business of the local self-government unit is not uniform over the years. And until the general state of the economy is stabilised, that should certainly not be achieved in any way. I respect and understand and support the investment in energy efficiency projects that more than 20% in the budgets are being carried out. But these aren't the only investments that exist at least not for my local self-government unit. God created, and grandfathers preserved the area that belongs to my city. The truth is, some people didn't keep it, but that's what other bodies do, but the investor has and comes. Don't let me list you now who doesn't. So also for such investments that are significant as... ports of nautical tourism, tourist resorts where they are very important should also ensure additional borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] These are exactly new jobs with new people with new capital that will benefit both state and local self-government units. It is extremely important for a public-private partnership as an additional option. For all that is in line with the overall development plan in the city in which and in continuity we are harmonising with the EU Commission's recommendations. In light of the above, I suppose in other units of local self-government and state, the budget itself must be a simple tool that allows us not to deal with ourselves but also to have the ability to control but also the means that are just as decentralised as they are, and can only actively invest where life is happening in local self-government units. As far as EU funds are concerned, here is for my city, which has only been using since 2009 and obtaining funds from these projects, e.g. 17,5km of sewerage but with the Croatian waters for the town of Trogir, here are already 4 conferences for civil society funding from the EU, so 153 000 euros for persons with special needs with the association that we are dealing with, here is for the eco ring that has just been released into the Trogir subsystem through the agency together in which the city participates in the administrative council and so on. Here I'd like to pray that in some way these opportunities are considered as part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22892	Thank you very much. On this we have one replica of Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22893	Here I would practically sign everything my colleague Rilje said if he was the same mayor and he knows the problem well. And it does seem sometimes that no one listens to anyone in this assembly, at least they don't listen to those who should. There are more problems and what has been made possible by both the Ministry and the Government should be made possible by local self-government because the mayor did not fall from the sky, he was elected by the citizens. There are laws if he violates the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, there is the BOOK and the State's Attorney's Office and our fine police will put him in jail but you cannot prevent him from acting primarily economically and in economic logic. If it's good for both the city and the prolongation, and these nine months aren't good, so citizens don't charge for nine months, they're in charge of 36 wars. Then why are you doing this restriction not 9 months, which you fear, so that the short-term debt doesn't become long-term. So in the country we have short- and long-term loans, we have a constant deficit that's been reprogrammed for years. For years, Mr. Radenovic, and it doesn't matter to anyone at all. This year, on the basis of the bonds, if someone buys them, we'll go to the bank, if we fail, that World Bank will come to us, introduce certain cuts in Greece, and we'll all hang our teeth and stretch on the plunger, and that's the only fact. Don't destroy local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22894	Time. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here I will briefly refer to the amendments and additions of the Budget Law, primarily in the section relating to Article 35, which allows units of local self-government that, for the purpose of implementing projects and energy efficiency in their area, I assume primarily on buildings owned by local self-government units can be debt-free, therefore in a way that they can raise loans even though they have already been in charge of up to 20% of those houses and incomes and the original incomes of the unit of local self-government for the previous year. First of all, I agree with my colleague Vinkovic that it was then desirable to assess an even wider range of activities that could be singled out as particularly important activities that would then come out of the planned 20% framework provided for by this law. In fact, it seems to me at least that the reason that led to the change of the law is that a project that was pompously announced during this year will invest in raising energy efficiency through building facades in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia through the implementation of these investments of over 2 billion kuna. This trail was largely formed and its purpose was to implement the project. The Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, which apparently did not go well, I would even say that the project has experienced a complete fiasco, a debacle, which we at the HDZ Club warned about when the law was passed. Therefore, because the public sector that should finance such a huge number of investments is simply not able to because it is over-indebted on the one hand, and on the other hand that the units of local self-government that were to be included in the project do not have at this time the means to settle or their basic obligations arising from the law so that they can then be involved in such a demanding project and the realization of the project. So I don't even see that even allowing the additional borrowing of the local self-government unit will result in any success in this provision of the law. On the one hand, a large number of local self-government units are not in charge anyway, so the 20% limit was not a big problem and on the other hand they do not have the opportunity to take over the loans that would then be returned very quickly because I say the budgets of the local self-government units are such that they do not allow for additional costs, additional expenditures and even for the return of loans in the investments that we have heard very quickly return even though they need to be quite cautious. Even investment in energy efficiency raises do not return as quickly as we think and as we heard here when we did such a project last year, we estimated that it was a real time frame in which to invest in raising energy efficiency for 7 to 10 years, so it is not quite as easy to invest in raising energy efficiency in public buildings so that the project in such a short time, for a few months or a year, and even two, three years could quickly be returned. At the same time that we expect units of local self-government then they can take credit funds to raise the energy efficiency of their buildings or other projects. In the Republic of Croatia, a state-level body that deals with this is largely funded by such projects. This is primarily the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which has invested huge funds in projects like this in the past. Yesterday, in the debate on the state budget, we also accepted the project, i.e. the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which established that the fund has a billion and 200 million kuna of funds which could also have been largely invested in this particular project which I said had experienced debacle and which, which has here not realised such an optimistic announcement that so many public buildings in Croatia would make it more energy-efficient. But where there is a great potential to move towards raising energy efficiency in Croatia. These are primarily private buildings, private buildings and those that have been illegally built. Last year, we passed a Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings with which the project, which was intended by law to be one third of the funds that the state collects from the compensation for the retention of an illegally built building in the area to just invest in raising the energy efficiency of these buildings. Once upon a time a few years ago, when I was hosting one of my fellow state secretary and we were passing through a part of our coast, he asked me if there was a war here, if this area was affected by war. I said no, it wasn't. For what? He says almost no building, a private building by the coast, where a large part of the buildings that were not built were not completed or the roof was not set up, or it was not covered or the facade was not arranged. So over 80% of these buildings are not arranged and large capital that can boost investment, which can employ a large number of façades, stone-cutters, shrubs, etc. It is precisely lying in that part, and we, with this Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, intend to provide favourable loans to the owners of these illegally built buildings to just invest in raising the energy efficiency of their buildings. And this was the right way with very cheap loans, where the Energy Efficiency Fund would pay interest to all those private owners, private building owners who had legalized their buildings, and to those others clearly who needed to invest in increasing energy efficiency of buildings. This is how it seems to me that again through allowing local self-government units to raise loans above 20% of the total amount of current income, we are trying a project which has already been condemned to fail to re-sustain and make it available and this project, by me, will not succeed with such a bill. There are other ways, there are other proposals to reduce energy consumption in Croatia. In fact, the rise in energy efficiency in Croatia is being traced to our adoption of the energy package 202020, so that 20% decreases energy consumption in Croatia through the rise in energy efficiency. I'm afraid that this way we won't win success because units of local self-government don't have the opportunity to be additionally in debt on the one hand, on the other hand, which here and so far experience over the past year has shown that there has been no success in that part and that the centre that was for this purpose has not received absolutely any result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22896	Thank you very much. We have two reported replicas to this exhibit, three. First distinguished representative of the Golden Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22897	Dear Vice President, then invited by this debate by colleagues before, some have talked about exceptions to energy efficiency. I have to say I'm against any exceptions, but I'm for increasing the limit. Because the exception thing is that it actually doesn't even know where it's gonna end up in the end. Oh, no? You can also spin a project of energy efficiency far greater than the entire 20% of the total debt, and on the other hand, the state makes you do some things. Because if you're with a state partner about energy projects, then you have to automatically give 15, 20% or how much you have to give or with European projects as your colleagues have said. So I would like to appeal that, if not through this one, for the next year, this law can be changed whenever we agree to lift that limit by making sure that they are not in the same category as real debt. Namely, guarantees you have legal persons to which you are the founder or owner and who are not the tail without roots, who generally pay off their loans. And if those guarantees you're issuing, I don't know, I'm going to talk about county, port administrations, health homes or I don't know who or cities, municipalities, municipal societies, I don't think it's the same thing as a local self-government unit or regional self-government taking out a loan and getting a direct load of annuity. Therefore, I should not know about guarantees taken as half of any risks, because in any case in such a way we are actually improving actually the investment story, the activities etc. But this way we're actually choking, so I'd like you to think about it a little bit. I don't have an amendment to that subject, but I thought of it a little late.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22898	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Komadin, I would like to agree with you that the 20% limit for certain units of local self-government is not enough and is not encouraged for those projects that are more cost-effective and economically justified. But what's a lack of this is the fact that we're allowing credit debt without limitations. So we're talking about these projects not, they're not, they're not going into 20%, but we're not talking about what amount. Because for smaller calculations, it could be 80%. Therefore, if we introduce such an option and agree with you that these exceptions are not good, then the least we should do is limit this new exemption. And not to say that there is now an exemption in the law, it exists in Article 86(5). The law states that projects largely co-financed by EU funds for which the local self-government unit borrows credit so that it can finance its share. That's not limited, either. Therefore, credits are not limited to projects co-financed by EU funds, and are not yet particularly limited to this exception which is not for me, I think is not welcome because this is how we who have worked in local self-government could find a number of other projects that are justified, which would encourage the economy in a local self-government unit that is not subject to exceptions. Therefore, it seems to me that here in this amendment of the law there was still a visible impact of the first Deputy Prime Minister who formed this Energy Sector Monitoring and Business Centre because projects and works that were planned were obviously not implemented until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22900	The wish for a replica was expressed by counterpart Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22901	Dear colleague, here are just a few thoughts that I'd like to relate to exactly what you're talking about. This last one, I'll start with the last thing you said about the Eco-Castelan system. You know, when it took extra duty and asked all units of local self-government, or cities that were participants to give instruments, we couldn't give and we couldn't give. I guess the county gave for us, not really, but because she had to because the project couldn't stop. But the fact that besides what you said about writing, these funds are still being sought. On the other hand, I agree with you, okay, but energy efficiency is therefore not just energy efficiency at the level of major state infrastructure projects, so it will happen in local self-government units. There are 100 other types of projects that occur exclusively in local self-government units. I'm more aware of what the law offers as an opportunity for units of local self-government to get through that gap when they don't have a regular flow of funds and they have to provide it by program and pay off the budget. For example, a utility program, a utility maintenance program or a utility building program, for example. Of course, he has to go through an investment plan. But the fact is that programmes exist, that accounts must be paid, in particular by fiscal responsibility and of course by a new law which regulates that units of local self-government must pay those programmes within 30 days. Now, as part of this, many units of local self-government will come and get into trouble. And what about, then, the government's responsibility to operate units of local self-government in general, and there are other options.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22902	Time. The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22903	Dear counterpart Rilje I suppose the town of Trogir is then overindebted, I do not know I am the Mayor of Trogir, but still interpreting the provisions of this law you are the credit so you can continue to participate in the project "Eko Kaštelan Bay" should get. This seems to come from this law because it does not enter the 20% limit. And when you talk about energy efficiency, we in the Chapter – environment and energy in negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the EU have taken on certain commitments. One of the main commitments is the third energy package that says that the Republic of Croatia must increase 20% of the share of electricity production from renewable energy sources, that it must reduce CO2 emissions and thirdly that it must reduce electricity consumption, i.e. energy consumption and one of these steps and raise energy efficiency. If this is an obligation of the Republic of Croatia and if we have to implement this, then it would be good to go through a state budget, through an existing fund that has the means to raise energy efficiency, to enable units of local self-government to realise projects that would raise energy efficiency. This way, leaving it to the fiscal capacity of local self-government units will have no success. That's what I was gonna say. So, that units of local self-government and otherwise the public sector are either over-indebted or financially unaccompanied enough to be able to realise such large projects. And the fact that we're going to allow them to be further in debt doesn't have to be because they just can't even repay the loans they're supposed to have had the opportunity to repay those loans. And that's what I wanted to tell you. It seems to me that through this model we will neither raise energy efficiency nor can the units of local self-government do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22904	The replica also stands for representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22905	Here's a distinguished colleague of Bacic's thing of this law I don't think should be observed primarily at the level of political parties. This law should have been passed by political agreement, and this government should not, as yours has acted, and what we suggest is the best solution, there is no better solution. And often in that last term, and even in this one, I feel like I'm talking in the wind or talking nonsense because apparently the good intentions that come from these speeches don't even come across a smile, not even thinking at all. This is a bad bill, totally bad. Here I am asking the responsible now if the state can plan the deficit, and it plans it all the time, if in the short term, if it reprogrammes these obligations, if I don't know what to do to show the people how to live better and how to live worse, which is taking away the right to plan a certain type of deficit to local self-government? If citizens iron cards and charge themselves for 36 months, what is the local self-government's right to short-term debt? Many units of local self-government are not the city of Zagreb, are not Istria, are not the large cities of Dalmatia, are not cities where parking is 50 kn per hour. And we have come to the naked truth, there is no fund for projects for the EU, but local self-government will be my... Varosh and Trnava have to be in charge of getting 2.3 panels on the roof. And that's true. It's the truth of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22906	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vinkovic, unfortunately he's the only one possible. Is this law or bad or good it is in such a system of state and local self-government the only possible. What you did in your speech when you spoke on behalf of the club was those questions that are intruding absolutely into the new reconstruction of the state and local self-government. You were talking about how much tax revenue today belongs to the state as it belongs to the units of local self-government and regional self-government. I agree with you that we often have our mouths full of decentralisation, but when we need that decentralisation through strengthening the fiscal independence of local self-government units, it often stops. So this law is practically to a large extent a technical law that must implement everything that the Government yesterday through the draft budget has shown us and to further try to improve some things. But for what you say changes significantly to make Croatia a decentralised state that many things are being done in local self-government units then it is necessary to cross the systematic change of organisation in the Republic of Croatia, what you are already saying many times, and we mention that much of this cake that is collected through taxes in the Republic should be left to counties or cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Until then, until it's done, we'll be many more witnesses to the kind of bad laws you've said to me are the only possible. Something systematic needs to be changed so that the Budget Law can be brought into line with the wishes, so I think most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22908	Thank you very much. I now call upon the esteemed Boris Lalovec Deputy Minister of Finance to deliver the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank you for your discussion, and I would just briefly look back on something said here. I wouldn't agree with my colleague Vinkovic if we didn't listen to what you're saying, at least in person. I've been doing all these laws that we've been bringing here this whole year, and I've actually recorded and I've been looking for stenograms and all the things where we could get close and adopt and we've adopted. You also remember the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement where we adopted your amendments, so even with some others when we talked about some other laws we certainly appreciate your opinion, not only of yours but also of your colleagues, so in that part I would disagree with you and I don't think that you were the correct bar for our part. What it is and finally I must say that I really agree with Mr. Bačić he is what he said lastly is... to say to this final opinion and that is what you guessed when you opened the question of this law and that is that fiscal decentralisation. This is a key problem, or key to all of this and solving these problems. This year, as you know, we've been working on consolidation of public finances and we've been under pressure and retaining ratings and worrying about the consolidation of the economy is everything from that consolidation of the economy then we can also move on to local units to start local projects. What I can promise you further is that we will open up or through this property tax we have opened and let's say this issue of fiscal decentralisation and that is what I announced when I was invited by the Association of Cities in Osijek that you will have the support of the Ministry of Finance for this fiscal decentralisation and that you will certainly have partners in us. I was 2, 3 times on board were members of the Association of Cities where they produced quality documents and simply in this part were already made certain solutions. From our point of view, it means from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance we will be giving full support to that decentralisation only you must know that it must be from all sides because it is a strong reform. As I was saying when the Fiscalization Act was here when I said that we wanted to make some structural reforms and that we hardly accept these reforms, I want to say here that we are going to go to reform and that this is a very important and very big structural reform of local community development, this fiscal decentralisation that we will also support it that we will step up in this second year's term of the discussion, that we will intensively intensify and develop all these models, then we will talk less about whether we need a 20% limit on whether or not we are entering any projects. And this question of yours about financing current expenditures, so it wouldn't all be if you had enough funds or that those funds were decentralised and that you were managing it. So let's say that much wider support for a really big structural reform that we're going to support. And what Mr. Bacic said is these are more technical solutions to how much it will help us get to this important and crucial solution. So I have to say that we have agreed to this law and sent it to the opinion and association of cities and municipalities and that we have discussed that we have also sent it to the municipalities and that as far as you have seen here through your debate, these technical solutions that we are at first our draft solution that we have sent to everyone on the association that we have received information that in a very large majority we have agreed and that the leaders have been familiar with this law and that we have worked on this intense communication, as it means once again, I agree with my colleague Bačić that now it would turn out that I do not listen to you. So we agree, we hear your opinions, and we can only tell you that we are going to hit the bar hard, you will have strong support at the Ministry of Finance to go into fiscal decentralisation, but we are also talking about a number of other revenues, not just real estate tax and profit tax and also all of these local projects with the European Union. So if we look at it as one package that we can take out, I think it's the only real solution for local administration because what I said is there's no strong state without a strong local administration. We can all fool ourselves that we can have a strong state of central but if we don't have a strong local self-government and we support you there. So in the next period ahead of us, we're going to go with that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22910	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22911	The listening thing is one metaphor, so you listen more to me then there'd be more in the law, not this gradually, but it'll dry my left and right legs while certain provisions of decentralisation occur. Here's today's VAT. We could have simply brought 2% of that tax to local self-government units, 1.5% of where it comes from, 0.5% of that VAT for this European Fund and here's the real decentralisation. That budget of mine from that 2% goes from that 45 million to one 130 million. Now, that's decentralisation. And if I'm going to worry about it, the kindergarten or preschool wants to have heating, electricity, some chalk, etc., it's already a minor problem. I'm talking about that decentralisation, not just authority, and here I am glad you're listening to me. This law can only be overcome by changing this from 9 to 12 months because you have to understand that it's impossible. You also have this temporary funding bill. The first, second, third month is mandatory under the law, mandatory temporary funding, now elections, no early elections in the election year. What about that fourth and fifth months? So that's the problem with this law. Also, I'm not asking you now, power the mayor to dispose of last year's funds. Is he elected, not to bring someone here from Zagreb or to name someone from a political party who will be a commissioner because it never turned out well. Here's hoping you'll appreciate some of my remarks, and structural changes and systemic changes must definitely occur because otherwise we're all in trouble. Everyone. The problem isn't solved down here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22912	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22913	My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a few words only to Mr. Deputy Minister. It's not malicious at least I'll tell you directly that you've overlooked a few things in yours. You said three, four times in your closing statement that you talked, coordinated with the Association of Cities, and I must admit that it is something I have been listening to for years in the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to remind you that, apart from the cities in this country, there are both counties and the Croatian county community as well as those with which it should also be coordinated because it is an uninterrupted antagonism that I see between cities, municipalities and counties because of course these first ones are full of more, 550, these are 20 and 550 when the noise is much more noisy than 20 when the noises with the fact that these 20 are most often tied to power, and then they don't make a fuss. So I would like to say that a serious reform of self-government must be made in many years and cannot be done in a palatable way through some kind of changes to a certain law. It must include administrative decentralisation and functional decentralisation and fiscal decentralisation. Of course that includes eventually territorial reconstruction and that story about statistical regions, it would also be discussed. And it also needs to be advocated for a multi-type form of local self-government, not all of them have the same capacities primarily neither human nor financial but I also speak in human terms. You can't manage certain things if you have a municipality of thousands of people, with all due respect you can't even run a county with 50 or 60 thousand people, you don't have the capacity for some functions and jobs. So there should be serious then go about doing it, and believe me, I know something about it, if nothing else, Plan 21 of decentralisation I wrote myself. So we've been working on something. Thank you. And I must confess to my colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22914	At the last moment, a respected representative, Martin Dalic, also appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22915	Thank you very much. Well, I only have one brief remark. Mr. Deputy, you haven't told me which ministry is responsible for structural reforms. It's very important to understand the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22916	Replication response, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22917	Thank you very much. We are in consultations actually why we have introduced such a concept is with the Ministry of Regional Development, so it is about the Ministry of Regional Development who said that in fact in the description of their work they will define that they are in charge of these structural reforms. We can see whether we will now just change it to be exactly the Ministry of Regional Development or whether it is sufficient in their description that they are in charge of these structural reforms. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22918	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22919	We are now moving on to a statement on the debated points, or materials from the acts we discussed. 1, Final draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 205, the debate on the text of the law is over. The government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the Government's representative, the Proposer, to explain the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22920	... The budget law of several clubs here highlighted the need to correct certain parts of the law. [[Specially enabled.]] The most relevant was this part of the short-term debt to a period of up to 9 months where we were actually immediately in this context and we accepted certain proposals, and we actually extended that deadline from 9 months to 12 months, as one of the club representatives here suggested. The second amendment applies to Article 44, where certain articles are only technically produced, in order to provide for a clearer and more precise determination of the entry into force of certain provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22921	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of clubs may participate in the debate in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. There's no request for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendment number one of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most of the votes of 84 votes in favour, 10 against and 26 abstentions have been accepted by the first amendment of the Government of the Republic, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on amendments to the two Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most votes, 85 votes and 34 abstentions have been accepted by the second amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendment was also submitted by MP Zoran Vinkovic. I ask the Government's representative to plead for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. As I said earlier, so the government of the Republic of Croatia actually accepted suggestions in the debate, and the first part of the amendment is in line with 9 to 12 months. However, the second part of the amendment cannot be accepted by the Government, as enabling further reprogramme or closing existing short-term loans or loans by taking new short-term loans or loans would mean turning the short-term into long-term borrowing for which the law in the budget provides for conditions and criteria, i.e. restrictions. This ensures institutional mechanisms and fiscal sustainability of the general government's public finances, which is also the practice of EU member states.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22923	Thank you very much. I think that most of it or all of it was consumed through government, but let's hear the motion for an amendment from respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22924	The fact is, Mr. President, that the amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia in the majority accepted practically my amendment, because it came out of the debate and the amendment itself, so the government intended to write immediately then for 12 months. So I won't discuss it. Since I said that by understanding and reasoning, so the Government intended first of all this amendment, the second part of the amendment was to allow me to say the same law to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or to the state but also to all units of local and regional self-government, bearing in mind and fiscal burden. I am pleased that the government has accepted half of this amendment, but I demand a vote for this other half.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22925	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the part that the government did not accept as the amendment of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most of the votes 85 votes in favour and 33 votes have been abstentioned to the Law on Amendments and Supplements... What are you asking to do again? So raise your hand and ask for a vote again. We'll ask for a re-election. Please state who's in favor of the proposed law? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Please let us work. Who's against it? No one. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of the 111 votes for and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Let's go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22926	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 206 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Tax Act with the final proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of the General Tax Law with the provisions of the Taxation Act and with the termination of the Financial Police Act. The mandatory content of the cash account is also prescribed with a view to equating the content of the account for all activities with the general regulation. All value-added taxpayers are also required, not only for value-added taxpayers whose annual value is goods and services of taxable export delivery but from 800,000 kuna, to submit tax returns by electronic means. The total number of value-added taxpayers who submit tax returns by electronic means according to the applicable GSP is around 80,000 entrepreneurs. The proposed amendments and additions to the General Tax Code total number of taxpayers to submit tax returns by electronic means would amount to around 170000. So the total number of taxpayers that expands by about 90,000. The aim of the proposed amendment of the General Tax Code is to ensure that the transition to electronic business is fully ensured in order to improve information for all value added tax holders. This contributes to the redistribution of work in the Tax Administration and also allows taxpayers to move faster and simpler procedures and to enable the current verification of the formal correctness of the forms, all in order to be efficient in the process. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the General Tax Act has made amendments and additions to ensure the position of the State as well as creditors in a debt, tax and debt relationship. In view of the importance of the protection of the state economic interest and of manipulation with age-limits at the expense of the tax authority, the start of the obsolescence body is defined in Article 94(3). The General Tax Code shall be defined in particular for the procedure for determining the abuse of rights, the breach of the Institute of Personal Responsibility under Articles 158a. up to 158f. General tax code. In particular, the start of an ageing body shall also be determined for the examination procedure of the source of the assets as referred to in Article 63. Income tax law. Indeed, an analysis of the existing situation found that there was a need to establish the abuse of the right in the tax-debt relationship and to establish the existence of a basis for taxation in the process of examining the source of the property for the period during which the tax authority found out about the illegal behaviour. Taking into account the provisions of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act and the provisions of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Taxation, the aim is to establish, if it is established, that there are grounds for taxation in the procedure of the source of property in order to enable the identification of the source of the property from 1 January 2005. For the obligations to be determined in the process of examining the source of the property of antiquity, the rights to determine the tax liability and interest shall begin to expire after the end of the year in which the examination process of the assets has established that there are grounds for taxation. This means that, irrespective of where fixed, mobile or other assets have been obtained, other expenditure by natural persons whose sources have not been proven to be income tax under that obligation has been charged if it has been established before it expires six years from the day following the end of the year in which the examination of the source of the property has established that there are grounds for taxation. In the case of payments made, the order of payment of the tax debt is clearly defined within the same type of tax in such a way as to first charge the old debt within the same type of tax, regardless of which the taxpayer indicated as the type of debt paid from the earlier tax period despite the existence of earlier periods' debts resulting in the wrong conclusion that the newer debt is charged and that the older debts remain outstanding. In view of the fact that on 1 October 2012, the Financial Business Act entered into force and before a bankruptcy settlement as a new legal solution that gives the debtor the possibility to be restructured in a timely manner, with the agreement of the credentials before the bankruptcy procedure is launched, it is necessary to carry out a certain harmonisation with that regulation, whose purpose is to finally stop and generate negative effects in the economy as well as a worrying trend in the growth of unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22928	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, honourable representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22929	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed as a parent working body at the 26th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law. Of course, the opening statement you heard from the deputy minister, so I won't repeat it. But I will point out what was presented to the Committee as a point of view. In relation to Article 5. The final proposal for a law has stated that it is not appropriate that the applicable provisions of point 94 of the General Tax Code are not amended, so that neither the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 which regulate the start of a period of limitation nor the period of limitation, and the proposed provisions of the new paragraphs 4 and 5 are introduced a new criterion for determining the moment when the limitation of the right to determine the tax liability and interest begins. The proposed amendments to Article 94 may, in the case of income tax, apply the different beginnings of periods of limitation depending on whether it is determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 94(3) or under the new proposed provision of paragraph 4 of the Law. It is also undeniable that any case where a new provision of paragraph 4 of the Law could be applied may also be subject to the provision of Article 94(3) of the applicable law which leads to unacceptable legal uncertainty. In addition, the opinion was expressed that the new provision of Article 94(4) was proposed. The law proposing that it quotes: "The limitation of the right to determine the tax liability and interest begins after the end of the year in which the process of examining the source of the property has been established that there are grounds for taxation" indicates the intention to apply that provision in a way that has a return effect. It follows that this provision could also apply to the revenue achieved so far and to the revenue for which Article 94(3) applies. The law, which reads: "The limitation of the right to determine the tax liability and interest begins after the end of the year in which tax obligations and interest have already been established, has already come to an end." Government representatives pointed out in this debate on the assessment of the non-constitutional nature of the proposal for a provision of Article 5. The law amending and supplementing the General Tax Code which further regulates the limitation of the right to determine the tax liability and interest, that the text proposed by the new provision of Article 94(4), together with the relevant reasoning, is based on the caselaw under which, for establishing the limitation of the right to determine the tax liability and interest, the general rule does not apply if the tax authority did not know or could know about the existence of a taxable person who was obliged to declare the existence of a tax liability, and the limitation of the right to determine the tax liability begins at the end of the year in which the tax authority learned of that obligation, i.e. where the tax was to be established. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 7 votes for, 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament, proposing the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22930	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative, Damir Cain, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22931	Your Honor, Vice-President, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I'm surprised there won't be any greater interest in this law, but this is certainly one of the most important laws not only I would say these administrations but generally when it comes to taxes, or operating conditions, I would say a whole decade. This is one of those laws that could have far-reaching consequences in some way and legal certainty in Croatia. And this is one of those laws that will either be unreservedly praised or on the other hand that will be disputed. This is a law that will cause serious debates, possibly debates before the Constitutional Court. And what's the point? The point is to redefine the concept of antiquity, i.e. its retroactivity. I dare say this is far more serious than the war profit age, but how did we solve it then? Then by changing or changing the Constitution, we are now changing this statute of limitations or repealing it by law. In the first case, let it be some kind of joke, what I'm talking about war profiting has tangled so far at least only Sanader, and this could be tang to tens and tens of thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia, and so it's my opinion that it might be good for one such law to go to another reading because this contradictory article 5 is starting to apply as of 1.01 next year anyway. Today came a great text in a business diary where here even in the title it says, "Inverts to hunting tycoons from the '90s, by abolishing an outdated study of the origin of the property". So let me quote a few pieces of that simple text. So it is said that "the government has decided to change the calculation of time-limits and thus paved the way for the hunt for debtors of the state and the sort of re-examination of the origin of the property. Since the beginning of next year, the tax-regular rights of the taxpayers to determine the tax liability will be calculated as being simplified as from the moment when the taxpayers get the knowledge that there is a basis for taxation. Tax experts are divided around new deadlines, and on the one hand they warn that this is a new example of retroactive application as Linic introduced in taxing capital income, while on the other hand they claim it is a dangerous precedent that will end in the Constitutional Court." According to their words, in many cases antiquity actually ceases to exist. In the first group without the right to become obsolete are the owners of several companies that have cheated on the state. Okay, in much wider than the first, are all citizens who can't prove the origin of the property. All debtors have to pay their dues, it's clear there's no dispute, but a series of problems are possible because rarely anyone who keeps the paperwork longer than the legal deadlines. The archive, however, does not require bonds to be kept after the deadlines are due, and that is precisely on the basis of the tax rules. They believe that for 10 years its archive is required to keep the company, for example, 7 years contracts on the part of compulsory income taxes. Just as war crime doesn't get old and tax evasion in Croatia becomes a serious thing that can follow you for the rest of your life. Clearly, in that American dictatorship, you have nothing to do but die and pay taxes of course. I'm not going to quote all these parts now, but just to say that Racan's administration in 2001 introduced the General Tax Law and shortened the deadlines of 5 and 10 years, which means that relative and absolute deadline for 3 and 6 years, has made a step towards the appeal that has since delayed the execution of the first-degree body's solution to the decision of the second court's body. Now, if the principle of justice is respected, the Government or the Ministry of Finance should determine which day can be taken for the initial state. Is that the end of 2005, the one in 1.01, say, 2006? The tax administration could since then monitor any changes concerning the receipt of expenditure, which would be in the spirit of tax regulations that exist all the time. Otherwise, tax oversight can be extended to the end of the last century, meaning '98, '99. when numerous properties are acquired. It will be sought in the form of a state of property, a source of funding, and it will be determined that tax income is due to the fact that many papers, salaries, fees simply do not have to be kept. So once again I say maybe it would be kind of good simply if this bill went into two readings. What is important besides this for this IRS? On the first page, it is stated that a public publication of the list of outstanding outstanding debts has been arranged which violates the Institute of Tax Secrets. Okay, we agreed to do it. There are no entrepreneurs that understand each other, let's be honest with each other that there are no business problems, they need to be helped mostly by a small one, indifference in this country is enormous, some 45 billion kuna, over 70,000 business entities are affected by this inequity. Tomorrow, the Law on Defence Rights will be on the agenda. We'll also publish a list of defense attorneys. I don't see any more problems here, just one category but I won't mention it to the citizens in this country can't get into the public, I don't know "some public secret", and they don't have anything de facto with the security of this country. But about that some other time. Equally, the possibility is introduced that, due to the conditions of general liquidity and easier collection of existing government obligations, in exceptional cases where this is of interest to the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, a decision on the settlement of the tax debt by way of an indemnification of real estate. I think we should let go of that debt if that's okay, maybe with those who don't have real estate and have that legal person, it would be good for the government to sort of get into that aliquot part of those companies. Clearly, man will ask himself a question so why will the Governments have some unequivocal company d.o.o., d.d. some command company or I don't know what if it's in trouble, if I don't know how to sell out my property that he can do business, but maybe it would be a way to reconcile his obligations. The obligation for all value added tax holders, VAT and not only on value-added taxpayers whose annual value is taxable and export-delivery services, is prescribed, but on 800,000 kunas, to submit tax returns by electronic means. It's absolutely okay there's no problem. For the purposes of the obligations laid down in the procedure of examining the source of the property of antiquity, the rights to determine the tax liability and interest shall begin to expire after the end of the year in which the examination process of the source of the property has established that there are grounds for taxation. I've already talked about it, but I'm going to say it one more time or ask myself whether this provision violates itself with the Constitution itself, so the statute of limitations begins not to run after the crime has been committed for a year since it began to express myself so that I can examine whether there is some non-tax base. Then, in this law, the provisions on the sale of a tax debt write-off from a tax-debt relationship are changed, so that the tax authority's rights in the pre-demand settlement procedure and in the bankruptcy procedure are authorised to dispose of the head of the body and the items worth more than 10 million kuna Minister of Finance. Okay. And that's fine too. So the law introduces a whole series of new institutes, tax evasion, which is absolutely fine, will be more and more difficult from day to day and must be. What should be regulated about which in some way the law indirectly states that there is no longer one company to be pushed into bankruptcy to establish a new one which serves in the full sense words for some way misleading the credentials and the state as a whole. I know this law will pass. The institutes in some way how to express themselves are not controversial except for this outdated one, it is clearly disputed whether consumption will increase, whether investment will increase, whether in these new circumstances we will save those small business entities and for the third time I am saying it is disputed whether we can "play" or break out old age and introduce that retroactivity. Yesterday was a useful budget debate. We've talked a lot about investment, etc., clearly when we talk about tax laws, we're practically talking about life in this country. Being able to enable companies to work, to provide people with bread not nationalism, to provide them with jobs, not social pathetics, to sweat, not paint, to pay taxes absolutely not to avoid, to need order, not to mess. The point is to save clearly I would say these existing systems, it doesn't matter if it's big, whether it's small because they're both simple lives of this country. For the last time, let's think again about obsolescence, think about this retroactivity. We have a constitution, we have simply changed those provisions about war profit, but this is something else, these are taxes, and I said this can be tangled by tens of thousands of people in this country. And lastly, that's the last thing I'm going to say, what I'm looking forward to is probably today at HBOR, so yesterday Mr. Linic told me to agree to this guarantee regarding the start of the construction of a general hospital and it's worth it for Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22932	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22933	Comrade Cain, this is primarily one technical law that will probably not be able to collect that huge tax debt, which is almost 50 billion kuna, where debtors are mostly known as the list of shame was published and where around 4 billion kunas were charged. Now how are we gonna patch up the holes in the state budget? First, the next law, which is not a technical law where this litre of milk will be collected, will be added to a 5% VAT and eventually this liter of milk will collect maybe 15% regardless of the packaging, where this bread will be our daily VAT of 5% and where the price will also go. I took black bread because most of the citizens of this Croatia eat it because they do not have it for the white and expensive ones, where they will collect it and where many families, regardless of the social care the state gives them, will be left without these two most important foods, without bread and milk. Without oil, they probably can, they haven't seen pork fat in a long time because they don't have the funds for our famous Slavonic slaughter, no more pigs in pigs, and soon there won't be any of this milk on cattle farms. Who will benefit from the increase in VAT by the state, will again have producers, not citizens, and that is the only truth of these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22934	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22935	Time is slowly leaking to all of us, Mr. Vice President, slowly, and the citizens are getting worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22936	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22937	Mr. Vinkovic, this isn't technical. I'm still repeating essential law. This is one of the existential laws. This can be just as important as that VAT law we'll discuss afterwards. This law can now not only lead to bankruptcy, tens of thousands of small business entities if they have in some way avoided what is absolutely wrong with taxes but this can lead to loss of freedom or the business ability of individual entities. I said this was in some way one of the most important laws not only of this administration but of doing business for a decade. This is one of those laws that could have far-reaching consequences once again I will say, according to the legal security of citizens in this country, companies and so forth. And this is one of those laws that will either be unreservedly supported or equally and prioritically unreservedly rejected. Why, because he redefines the concept of outdated and introduces its kind of retroactivity. I mean, I'm gonna say once again, thank you for giving me the chance to answer you, I'm not going to talk so much about VAT, but I'm going to stick to this law, that when it comes to this law that there should be another debate because I'm afraid the law will end tomorrow in front of the judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22938	We're continuing the club debate. The views of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada will be presented by distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, if you remember a few months ago, the Croatian Labourers gave their version of the amendments and the addition of the General Tax Law concerning the occasion of this topic which my colleague Cain was talking about, so the difference between the property that the taxpayer has and the receipts that went through the tax scissors. Our idea was demagogue and populist, as they said, so it was rejected. And what we wanted, we wanted the IRS to necessarily establish that difference for every taxpayer if there was, so to follow every taxpayer. Well, the IRS hires 4500 people today, so it shouldn't be such a big problem for her. And if that difference is established that the property that stems from that difference is frozen, that the procedure is necessarily initiated and that the property is if there is no legal choice, so if a man does not prove that a friend from Uruguay sent or died to Australia, then that property is taken away. Now that was declared left-wing, left-wing pulsism and not accepted. What does this law say about that? This law first and foremost predominates as a perfectly logical thing to make that difference, so the difference that arises in the process of determining, examining the source of the property, that the tax on income is charged to that difference because it is income. This is the income that man has earned, with him he has come to the property, and now what kind of work a man has come to do. It's an income that was obtained by, say, smuggling cocaine, smuggling of white slaves, stealing, tax evac, that weren't caught. If caught then he's in prison and all that stuff together, but they didn't catch him, so there's a man with these jobs who bought a villa in Dubrovnik. The tax administration finds that his incomes he has reported, his income he has reported is not responsible for buying a villa in Dubrovnik and says you have therefore had 5m euros in income. And what are we going to do about you? We'll pay your taxes. As a result, the tax is charged on illegally acquired assets which become legal by that fact. So that property becomes legal property. And come on, I mean, that's what we agreed on, there's no other way. However, there is a possibility that there is a statute of limitations here. Thus, it was found that man had some income that was unknown to the sources and assets he had obtained from those revenues. And if it's been six years since that fact was established then nothing, then ate the donkey wolf and that property became legally his. What do we say? We're ordering that illegal work is normally paid off, as a rule. Of course, if you don't get caught right away. First of all, you're gonna pay for something like 20, 30, 50, 75% of taxes. It doesn't matter how much, you'll pay, so we'll legalize it, so fine. Second of all, if you can get some kind of mess to drag things into six years, you won't even pay for it, your property will stay and no one will ask you what happened. It was what happened. I don't believe it was anyone's intensity. I may have shown this a little cartoonally, but that's a fact that can happen very easily. Each of us can think of an example, of a loved one, of a neighbor, of an acquaintance who would do it very easily. What we can't affect now, of course. What concerns me here is the time limit of limitations and the fact that nowhere else in the law or anywhere else is there a sanction for the one who lets us go to eclad crime, the illegal business, to go six years before the bill is charged, and what we Labourists are actually opposed to in principle, but come on. He's here. So someone's gonna miss pulling everything that the state can pull, if anyone can the state can do it, and it's gonna get old and nobody's gonna answer like none of the 4500 and I don't know how many employees in the IRS didn't answer for the fact that it's about '97. By 2006, that's the data I have, the number has been constantly growing, the number of tax administration employees. That the tax administration's cost grew steadily even in those years when there was no employment growth, and there were such years. And that at the same time, there was no charge of those famous 50 billion kunas we talked about in this House. It's actually amazing. I don't know if they should laugh at themselves or cry at each other, but that's a fact. And now the claim is the IRS is doing its job perfectly. If the IRS is doing its job perfectly, then such provisions at all, such provisions are immaterial at all. It may not occur that there is a limitation from the moment of expiry of the period in which the examination procedure of origin, the source of the property is completed. So, from that moment on, if it's been six years, then the IRS didn't deserve to even exist. In Article 9, Article 119 concerning the appeal procedure for a tax administration solution is deleted. So no more of that kind of appeal, or the only system is to pay first, and then sue if you have time and money. And well, a man could take that as a reason. However, the reason for this is that it wants to be protected in such a way by a quick and clear procedure to protect the state interest. The state's interest is to collect taxes definitely, but the state's interest is probably not to close down those companies that don't necessarily shut down right now. So perhaps there could still be some solution that would allow humans to survive. All in all, we must agree, despite these remarks, that the applicant intends to do something with, in particular, this property that has no clear origin and with the sanctioning of that property. What counterpart Cain stated was that, in fact, constitutional difficulties would arise, so that the law could be found in the Constitutional Court because of retroactiveness, and that under that law, poor people would find themselves in a strange situation to lose their business ability, to lose their businesses and to be horrified by what is said with disgust. They're not poor people. People who don't have the origin of the property they own today are not poor people but thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22940	To this exhibit, we're going to hear the replicas first. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22941	Dear fellow Vuljanic, you have well noticed, in fact Croatian Labourists in this assembly of parliament each day warn of one very important fact which is that the IRS needs to be taxed, that all state authorities should fight against illegally acquired property. It's the cancer of this society. I know the owner of a movie house that had 0 kunas of income for years, and he drove cars of 300, 400 thousand euros. Two cars in the City of Zagreb were the same brands and he was driving it. No one from the IRS ever knocked on his door. What is excess of what is earned, which is not paid tax I fully agree with you it should be taken away because otherwise if it is not taken away and if it is obtained by crime then it is legalized crime. With the fact that I would now like to warn one more thing that has nothing to do with your exposure, which is an inappropriate non-verbal communication from the head of the IRS on your exposure, and often on the other. I think if you want to say something, please say it, you have a chance to speak after the MPs. This is what the chairman does not see, and I ask you kindly to refrain because this is the Assembly in which the parliamentary representatives are held accountable for what seems to be, not for the parliamentary representatives to submit to the different faces of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22942	We haven't introduced this in the Rules of Procedure yet as a ban on faces, but suggest amending the Rules of Procedure in that sense if you have an observation. And now we will hear the answer to the replica of Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22943	The fact is that the tax on illegally acquired assets or the one that was tried to cover up actually legalises the APP system – if it passes, it goes away. Because what's the difference between the one who paid the tax, in the final instance, between the one who normally paid his taxes on all his receipts and the one who got caught not paying his taxes and then then charged him later? They'll pay interest. Well, he'd pay interest in the bank, pay interest everywhere. It doesn't make any difference if you treat them equally. The difference would only be if the person who covered up the income because there is no legal source of property that he obtained from that income to be taken from him. If there is no such thing, there is no difference – APP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22944	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I really don't know a colleague of Vuljanic who you are and what nonsense you've exposed today while you were down at that pay phone. They taught me, and I guess that's how I learned that only 5% of what we say, we say verbally, and 95% of what we say, we say non-verbal communication. And really here's the respected vice president bothering me, and I'm bothered by this non-bal communication from the head of the IRS not because it's being told by colleague Nikola Vuljanić but it's happening in continuity, and if we're already talking about this law that is being implemented between the IRS and the IRS, then I'd really like to ask the esteemed tax chiefs that all of this that you never communicate with or with Mr. Deputy you say clearly that we're all hearing and I think it'll be fairer and that things will be clearer for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22946	And now I have already commented on this observation, and I would also like to point out that I believe that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure will be a very interesting and funny debate. A colleague of Vuljanić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22947	Just one sentence. Don't piss me off at all, I'd be angry if someone attacked me with a chair, this doesn't bother me. Such behaviour is a direct consequence of the role and position of this House. This House corresponds to the government, not vice versa. And that's why government officials can behave like that. Somewhere else in the world probably wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22948	The last replica, the esteemed representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22949	Thank you very much. I'm not talking about non-verbal communication. I'm talking about verbal communication, so what's said. And it was said at the pay phone, Mr. Vuljanic said, that the boredom is therefore the intensity of this law that one who acquires the property in a suspicious way did not pay the tax even though it is now imposed within 6 years, because it is now 6 years old, if it is not caught by a wolf donkey. Well, it's just the other way around. The intensity of this law is that he didn't eat the wolf donkeys and that six years for it wasn't worth it, but if so, not six years from what happened, it's six years from when the IRS started that shop. So it's not six years from when he acquired that property but six years from when the IRS started working. What do you want with this? He wants to make it possible for the IRS to solve the crime that was previously committed and that happened while we were out of power. And that's the intensity of this. I hope you'll support it if you figure out what this is about, and if you're not here, I'll tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22950	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22951	I figured out what the law says. Six years after it was established, yes. But why does it even have to exist in the law? Six years after it was found that it happened, after the end of the procedure if it wasn't charged, and you say it should be charged, I still don't think it should be charged but taken but the office. 6 years after the determination if no statute of limitations is charged. How is that possible?"
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22952	We continue to discuss clubs, so I invite the respected Martin Dalic to introduce us to the positions of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22953	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government. Well, here's the interesting thing was actually hearing these replicas right before they interrupted some non-verbal communications agents from the government's representatives. But in fact, I understood these non-verbal communications quite differently because the message that I understood them was that what the representatives of the clubs before me were saying was not possible and I understood it as researching the head of the IRS over the possible consequences of the amendments and addition of these articles. I think that the possible consequences of the amendments and the addition of these articles are really and possible, and in the position of this criticism, the Tax Administration has brought itself, a new head of the tax administration, with a number of its statements made in the past period, disabling the work of the Tax Administration in the previous period. As counterpart Jelusic said while we were not in power was a crime, but now that you have reached power, absolute honesty has arrived. Therefore, it is necessary to open retroactively the possibility of examining the origins of the property as retroactively as far as possible, as far as retroactively this law does not say or foresee. But it clearly predicts that the already outdated tax procedures can be opened. All right. But what I'd like to say and repeat here is that I don't know which time the laws are passed for everything and that they can't and can't accept neither the accusing of large groups of people or unidentified persons that behavior and acquisition of property is a crime. Our legal framework describes what are and what are illegal actions and the law we all have to stick to when it suits us and does not suit us. This is particularly common in recent days. And that together makes for legal certainty. The opening of the possibility to open the possibility of tax collection and the examination of assets in an unidentified past period is certainly a breach of that legal certainty. That's why I'm starting with the premise that the majority of citizens have acquired their property legally, legally and at no time thought and not wanting to come into conflict with the IRS. And that's why the flat-rates that apply to the broad groups to tens of thousands of crime that was absolutely present before we came to power we don't accept. We do not accept, but only represents one demagogue defense of incomprehensible and unreasonable legal provisions, and then we will be surprised at the next step and what are the differences between the strategies we have set and the ones we have fulfilled? Well, that's right. Is one spoken at a rhetorical level advocated investment, investment environment, entrepreneurs, and then passed laws and water debates in which they are all placed and placed on top of them a questionnaire. That's why we disagree with this provision. It might be more reasonable if the IRS extended the flag time limit and evened the absolute limitation period with an old time limit for contributions at the end. Perhaps it would help you a little more in your work and simplify your work, and it would also make these outdated deadlines longer. Make them longer, why would they be three years old? It has already been mentioned that the limitation period has been reduced to three years in some previous time. This bill deletes Article 118 and Article 119, so I only want to say in this place what it means. This means by eradicating Article 118 to delete any possibility for the IRS to grant any payment or deferral of the tax and by deleting Article 119.ukid, the possibility of delaying the payment in the case of an appeal to the Administrative Court. So far, there has been a possibility that the IRS in the case of a lawsuit should delay the payment to the administrative court's final decision. These two provisions will certainly have their effects. Some positive, some negative, we'll see. And finally, I think that this management of the tax authority with the assets in the bankruptcy procedure, in the pre-demand settlement process and the distribution of that management between the amount of 10 million kuna and the smaller amounts left to be managed by the head of the tax authority. In general, I think that in the case of such decision-making and decision-making on this property, this amount should be reduced, i.e. to reduce the amount for which the decision and consent of the Minister of Finance is required. Because 10 million kuna demand for the Tax Administration represents a significant amount and essentially leaves a significant space for different individual and mutually uncoordinated decisions according to certain regional or county tax exposures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22954	We've got two lines reported. First honorary representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22955	Thank you, dear Vice President. I would refer to the claim of a respected representative that the acquisition of property is therefore not a criminal offence. I absolutely agree that acquisition of property is not a criminal offence but non-payment of taxes is a criminal offence. Therefore, the non-payment of the tax which a certain taxpayer was obliged to pay when obtaining that property. By closing our eyes on that fact, we're re-accepting to that Egyptian who's been bailing, yaming. The right to security is the greatest way to simply make sure that no one will charge that unpaid tax and then we have absolutely the right to security as far as these claims are concerned. So here we need to find a measure between social harm and what legal certainty means. I think it is well noted here that the great social harm of these acts that have been done over the last few years and that non-payment of taxes is, in particular, of such a social disadvantage that we should move legal certainty in these things aside. And I think this bill is in line with that and that's why it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22956	The replica matches the respected Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22957	... is, is, the truth is, non-payment of taxes is a felony. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] But here we are discussing the fact that it is implicitly derived from all the debates, that until now it has been allowed to deliberately not pay taxes, and that from now on it will not be done. It's on the basis of all the debates. And that now suddenly circumstances have been created that, in the work of the Tax Administration, absolute justice is possible and there will be no error, no failure. So I'm asking you why, to this day, there's no tax on Vartex, why. It's just that you've been in power for a year, you haven't charged it when it's that simple. When you, Mrs. Director of the IRS, boasted of the large billions you'd collect from the tax debt. I don't see them being charged anywhere, and I see that only legal persons have been deleted, which is what the minister said, four billion, written off. Well, I guess the point was the charge, not the write-off. But I understand you because I understand how the system works and I understand the problems you are facing right now, but this is simply the result of your demagogue performance at the beginning of the mandate and over the past year. And now incomes, the problems are slowly showing what this is really about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22958	Second replica, dear Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22959	Thank you. Comrade Dalic, you said in your refusal of the possibility of retroactive application of any such regulation. To defend this fact is certainly not tens of thousands of people in Croatia thieves who have come to property in a strange way. I absolutely agree with that, certainly not, but some are. There aren't tens of thousands, but some of them are. Now why would anyone in this country mind, who has a normal origin of property, who is known to have earned, who he himself can prove to have earned, why would it bother him to apply it both backwards and forwards and whatever. I don't see any reason for that regulation to happen this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22960	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22961	Because there's gonna be a lot of innocent victims hunting witches, that's why. And no innocent victim is worth it. And that's how we've already had the opportunity to see it this year when the IRS started calling on prominent individuals to come to the IRS and file accounts, which, in spite of all the documentation, either in their personal or in their business activities, the IRS has. The calls went through the paper first, and the second, in the actions that they had done, we had the opportunity to read in the paper that these people were not guilty. Because they were prominent, their examples were published in the newspaper. And what about those who are neither prominent, nor celebrities whose examples will not be published in the paper, and they will be exposed to such actions only because the IRS seems to have something wrong with it. That is why we oppose the retroactive application of any law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22962	Now we'll hear the position and another SDP club. They will be presented by the respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22963	Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, the Honorable Deputy Minister, the Honorable Director of Administration, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know which way we've been discussing any tax laws in this assembly these past few months. We've really changed a lot so far, changed or brought them on purpose, not by accident or this one. Because through tax laws, we want to give messages and show what our policy is and what we want with taxes. And it makes sense for me that some of us here disagree with our HDZ colleagues, logically. If we agreed on that, we'd be in the same party. We're not, because we see differently. Through taxes and tax laws, we implement our policy, so when we change it and when we change this law, then we clearly want to say what our policy is. So, we changed in these few months a series of tax laws, we changed the income tax law, different from yours, on purpose. Why? Because we wanted to say that those who have below average salary and average pay less taxes, and those who have higher salaries, high wages to pay more taxes. Well, we're also here with Assembly MPs with income tax-based salaries of less than 400 kuna. And that's okay. We think it's okay, that those who have more pay more, those who have less, pay less. You thought differently. We've changed the profit tax, right. Because we said that if you tax your salary, even the smallest one, why don't you tax both the profits and the dividends that the owners pay off. They have a lot more money. And we've taxed it. And we said yes, that's our policy. That's how we see taxes. So here's the case here when it comes to the general tax law. And that's where we differ and logically. However, the General Tax Law, some of them generally understood, so they thought that they could talk about this law in general about taxes as here I see bread and milk there by colleagues Vinkovic, so he talked about VAT on bread and milk even though it had nothing to do with this law. It has something to do with the VAT Act. But well, man doesn't know what he's discussing. What does this law want? This Law wants to introduce order, rationality, and justice or justice, and that is what it does. So when we talk about introducing order, one of the things that is not the most important in this law, but that's where it determines what the bill that's being issued must contain. So you need to know exactly who betrayed him, in which place, the OIB, the goods that is, VAT etc. Unfortunately, that hasn't been exactly regulated so far, and that's what it takes. I'll give you a personal example, and you probably did, too. I've been to this pastry shop this summer, and I've been eating something, and I'm asking you to charge so many kunas. And I say the bill? And then he brings me a bill that was so bad a print was, I didn't have any glasses, I couldn't see what was on it. When I left, I saw that he didn't write half the things that he had to be in his account because he typed them in some cash register that had nothing to do with what he was supposed to look like. So, it's good that this law solves it. It is also good to establish that all value added taxpayers submit their tax returns by electronic means. In a few years, it's gonna be funny if we've discussed it at all, because when everything goes to electronic processing it's going to be perfectly normal and it's a good thing that we're going in that direction, not just for big entrepreneurs, but for everyone because it's more rational, more efficient and cheaper in the end. And they're gonna free people in the IRS of unnecessary work, and they're gonna be able to do a smarter job, and we see here that there's a lot more to be done. What's most important in this law and what's the change and what I see has caused the most resistance, and that's about outdated for some works. So, what are the abuses, and when it comes to the acquisition of property, to go into interrogation, so from where some of the assets he's acquired. So far, that's exactly how it was when an out-of-date deadline was eaten by a donkey wolf, so you can put salt on your tail, no taxes. And they couldn't wait to get past the deadline and make that limitation period as short as possible. Of course this change of law wants to solve it. So if someone has committed a certain abuse, that is, if he has acquired an asset for which he has no cover in his pay, in his income. It doesn't have to be just pay, it has to be any other legal income that can be taxed now, no matter what the deadline that has passed so far has been established as a limitation period, but that it can be prosecuted and subsequently, that it can be done. Here you ask the question of retroactivity, justification, legal justification whether it's okay or not. And I'm asking the next question, not by bringing in a little or no good at this, which is what it's all about, is it legal? I'm asking the second question is that morally okay? Let's just agree on whether it's okay for someone to acquire property, huge property without income, no income, no legal income, and to let it go when the limitation period is over, a very short limitation period, so that nothing can be done to him, to pay the tax. Do we morally agree that it's okay? I'm afraid that's where we disagree, that some people think it's okay, and we think it's wrong. If that's not right, then it should be legally sanctioned and the laws adjusted to life, not the lives of the law. So, do we want to say what is immoral, that the law says so, so we can't or can't say that, it's immoral, it can't stay let's go change the law. That's what we want and that's what we do. We remember a syntagm from the late 1990s about the sin structure when many things were done legally, but the question is moral, are justified. So that's kind of what we're talking about here. So it's not about whether the law says it one way or another, but whether we agree on something that was wrongly acquired to remain unjustly acquired. We don't agree with that, and that's why we're going with these amendments to the law. They don't need to, there were words here that most citizens have acquired their property fairly. Right, and the majority who have acquired their property fairly, who has for their property the cover in their incomes has nothing to fear and no consequences for them as far as this law is concerned. Because this law, in that sense, will in no way have a bad impact on that vast majority that we are for, and we think she did well. However, it will give them legal and moral satisfaction that even those who have illegally come to property have come to property in such a way that they cannot give them a clear confirmation of how that money can be taxed. To bring to the same level as those who made a fair living, they paid their taxes fairly. Therefore, this law, this amendment of the law, has its own elements of righteousness and justice, so that some may not be forgiven just because a few years have passed since what they have done, and we agree on us dishonestly. Some people may think it's not necessary to tax it, but we think it should, and that's why we're going with these changes to the law. So far, it was important to pass the end of the limitation period, often having friends of political allies or already who were on certain bodies in the IRS and who had scuttled over these things. Here were the words that the laws were passed, I think my colleague Dalic said exactly the laws were passed for everyone. Yes, laws are passed for everyone, but they can't favour anyone. And here, in some ways, it was privileged for those of you who had acquaintances and acquaintances and protectors in power that they didn't have to pay taxes and now we're ending it. Therefore, it is this law that puts all citizens in an equal position in such a way that they must all legally earn their money and legally pay taxes on their assets, no matter how much time they have spent. So, and if he's dealing with something that's happened, what's been done and what's long gone if it's immoral, if it's not fair and fair, it needs to be sanctioned legally, and that's where we clearly differ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22964	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22965	Dear colleague Jelusic, I know very well what law is now in order, and if you have listened closely, I have said so in the replica of the representative. But the fact is that this law that's coming now, and you can't possibly avoid that by amending the Value Added Tax Act, here's this milk and this bread will collect. I don't know if you can claim it won't. And I know very well what the subject is now, and besides, I'm going to be talking about it on behalf of the club. So I have no idea what's going on here. After Friday and after the law, amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax will be published in the National Journal of Milk, bread and other items will be collected. Not 5%. It'll pick up a little bit more. However, certain vessels will be cheaped. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22966	Only fellow Vinkovic that we are now not discussing the VAT Act, so these props of yours are a little prematurely brought in but will now respond to the replica of his colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22967	It is true to counterpart Vinkovic that he will collect, that bread and milk will be 5% more expensive and that the tax on bread and milk is introduced 5% that is correct, that is what you said well. But you also know why this is happening and you don't want to say it. You want to leave behind a mystery like that SDP came to power and now the citizens will collect your bread and milk 5%. That's, you didn't say that, but it's a message because you don't say what's behind it and you know very well that there's coordination with the EU behind it. If the EU we want to join, we all want to enter, there is no... Please don't interrupt me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No zero rate. Therefore, bread and milk are collected because we are entering the EU 5%, no more zero rates. That's why it seems you know it very well, but you don't want to say it because it doesn't suit you, you want to say something else, but let me rephrase it for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22968	Second replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22969	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of Jelusic you said you changed this period of very many tax laws, which is correct. Also, you said the laws are passed to apply to everyone, but unfortunately, of course, it's always so that they apply to one majority, they don't apply to others, one more suffers the other less. That's how it happened with these lists of shame, so-called shame. which appeared from the Tax Administration outside and which, as already said here, appeared several times in the newspapers and did not give the right picture of the situation, not all those who were supposed to be on those lists were published. Of course, those who have the most and should perhaps be among the first were not published. I would say that I don't understand why we're talking here about how it's good that so many laws have been changed when I get in touch with the citizens and get a completely different impression. Citizens feel nothing good about changing laws, tax laws. The craftsmen and small entrepreneurs don't feel any good either, so it seems to me that we're going the wrong way, that something's going wrong, that we didn't get a good look at what this society is supposed to do, give these people and give it to them. But here, tomorrow, i.e. After this point, the opportunity to do something good is to cut the other VAT to 10% in order to finally give a good signal to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22970	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22971	My dear colleague, I believe that you are an emotional man and that you feel with people, but that you are feeling everything that the citizens think about, and that you may be being deceived, in particular, by not knowing what the citizens think if you deliberately want to inform them otherwise and to give other information. If someone got a slightly higher salary for a hundred kunas because we changed income tax, he sees it on his salary. Maybe you don't see it with him if you have a far higher salary, but the one who pays more than 100k, so the team cancels the VAT increase by 2% because there's about 2% on his salary he sees it. You don't have to see it, but don't feel bad for those you don't see how they feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22972	The third replica is the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22973	Thank you very much. In fact, I would ask you a colleague Jelusic about your discussion when you have already raised the question of morality in one part of your presentation, is it moral to open up all citizens and all different and legal and legal persons in this country at risk and put over it and give the IRS the right to open proceedings against them no matter when and at what time and how far away this property has been acquired, in order to eventually reach several? Whose names and names is the IRS probably that? As far as the IRS are concerned, criminal activities related to smuggling, drugs, this, the IRS and the I.P.S. are concerned, their names are so well known. And that's what we're different about. You think it's moral to open the front of all citizens in order to eventually find someone guilty. I think it's not that we should stick to the law as it is and we can't occasionally remember to go back as far as it suits the state power. The state force should still be kept within certain limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22974	And this replica corresponds to Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22975	You yourself said that the law applies to everything and applies to everything equally. That's right. Therefore, the fact that some have been protected by these laws so far is that you still want to protect them, and everything in shape is to protect the rest of the citizens. No, I don't. We don't protect the rest of these citizens because those citizens I said that in my debate that paid a tax on property they acquired legally have nothing to fear, they won't be touched. Those who have no proof of their property will be touched and should be touched. The one with his salary, credit, etc. Buy a regular apartment and pay taxes won't touch it and let's not scare the citizens. After all, let's not go so reductively... that means that we could do this, we have the Road Traffic Safety Act, now you could say so why control all citizens when only some commit a violation, do you seem to know exactly who commits the offence in HDZ? Maybe when it comes to tax evasion and you know who committed the crime, maybe that's what you helped with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22976	Now it will be replicated by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22977	Dear Mr Jelusic, you have rightly asked the question of morality because many laws that are amoral or against morality have been passed in this House. In this House, the laws that allowed robbery privatisation were passed, and then some of the more difficult ones that the caved in were because what if we let those who stole not pay the tax on what they stole, means that we agreed with that thesis who put up the pit was a jam. But I repeat again, it's all about illegally acquired property. Illegally acquired assets taxing it means legalizing a robbery. If someone won the theft if something was stolen, how can you put on a stolen tax? I mean illogically. And even to use the words of Mr. Jelusic immorally, that something was stolen or something if the dealer built a house or bought five cars and now we need to give a tax on that value or simply explain how you think it is? How is it possible that something that's stolen can put a tax on what's stolen? When you put a tax on it, you taxed something, and this rest is legalized. It's like an illegal construction. Now you've allowed what was an obvious violation to be legalized. All right, that's what we agreed to was voted out and now we're legalizing what's been stolen. It is therefore very difficult for us to agree on this. And I'd just like to point out that you have zero rates, there is, in Great Britain there. The thing is, you're not going to say that the negotiators had a bad negotiation. We could have had a zero rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22978	Answers the respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22979	I agree with you at first. So you can't have someone who's a criminal who's been dealing drugs and that's made a lot of money and bought property with this amnesty, and I agree with you, and this law doesn't solve it. Therefore, you would be dealing with crime in general crime through the IRS. It's being dealt with by another law, and that's what needs to be done. Tax laws charge taxes, so we want to say that we need to charge taxes with that. If he is involved in criminal activities and has acquired it, it is not amnesty that this will be charged tax, only then he follows either before or parallel with this and another process which is not... under this law but under the other laws of this country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22980	And the last replica, the esteemed Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22981	Dear colleagues, I was invited to this replica by the exposure of Mr Jelusic when he found that counterpart Vinkovic did not understand what the government had proposed. I can say that we often have a lot of trouble understanding what the government is proposing, and even with much more pain, we are trying to understand what the goal of some government proposal is, even though this law is being understood. So far, the fact has often been one I can say to the non-existent or rotten alibi of the state institutions of the IRS and, moreover, that they could not charge the tax, they could not determine the origin of the property because the limitation period for it has been 6 years. Tens of thousands of people work in these institutions, and it's a little odd that they need six years at all, let alone a lot longer so that in the days of today's information when virtually all data has one place to determine that someone has acquired something illegal, has not paid taxes and has not been taxed in time. So my opinion is that this law is also one way of petting the eyes of the public. We will support this law, not because we think that without it, it can't be easy for both the Tax Administration and other institutions of the state in whose job description that part of the task has been thrown out by this non-existent or rotten alibi that they couldn't handle it because of an age-old period of 6 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22982	And the last answer to the last line, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22983	Comrade Drmic, you said you didn't understand. Well, maybe I can understand you, you don't understand the laws when this government proposes who are just, righteous and moral. This law is like that. I don't know why you have a problem understanding this, but well, you don't have to understand, I won't be here, and I won't have time to convince you that you understand it, but I believe that those to whom this applies are most citizens of the Republic of Croatia understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22984	It's 13 o'clock and 33 minutes. I'm advertising a break now. We will continue at 3 p.m. and the HDSSB club and the distinguished representative Zoran Vinković will be in place. Good for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22985	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22986	... The HDSSB club will support this law. [[Specially enabled.]] I wish there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance here, since we will support it exclusively from the good intentions of this Law but not from the way this Law opens up many issues which are primarily related to the issue, I would even say that this Law will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court. In any case, this Law abolishes the famous saying "who has made a pit, a pit" and should indeed, above all, also commend the proposal's intention to ensure that what is guaranteed is adequately and returned. But given everything that has been happening all these years, there is also a legitimate question, the institute that had first to oversee tax discipline, which had to enable all citizens equality, that constitutional equality before the law. He obviously didn't do it. Because I don't believe anyone can be in debt for four, five, six years. Then when he comes six years and one day, as children play those games of turkey dots no longer apply and that debt no longer exists, the tax debt no longer exists. On the other hand, the question of the possibility of billing at all, because knowing that even on those lists, I wouldn't say shame. Because those who did not carry out their duty to this society can be ashamed of themselves and pay their obligations as well as all other citizens, but it was above all a list of obligations. The list was to specialise those who concluded contracts with both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance. But the question of payment is justified, because of that tax debt of 52 billion kuna, so out of almost half the budget of the Republic of Croatia I would also like to see a list of those who paid the tax, who were charged and republished the list of those who did not pay the tax. This is not any spit on entrepreneurs or on the economy, especially to single out a list where these taxpayers managed to settle with the state. So that's the debate I had a few months ago. And I'm glad the IRS accepted it. I've been charged as much as I know something more or about 4 billion kunas. We still have over 45 billion kunas of tax debt not charged. The question in that guarantee, don't think that those who vouched, that they had just left everything in Croatia. There's a little in the Swiss banks. You can't get into them. There's little in those famous companies on Virgin Islands. There are many funds not in real estate in Croatia, but around the world, perhaps in Hawaii, the Canary Islands, etc. etc. So we need to start with that real, increased, there's two more thousand revisions of conversion and privatisation. Because like crimes, war crimes, war profits don't get old, neither should this profit and this crime that happened in conversion and privatisation. It's a question of non-deprecated debt. I would not want this law to turn into a certain constitutional category in view of its retroactiveness, and I am against it at all that someone who actually stole these citizens after six years is amnesty or amnesty by paying a certain tax debt. So I won't mention dealers because they'll eventually come to justice. But I don't believe and doubt that those who have drawn money from Croatian citizens' pockets and Croatian economies will come in this way. You have other owners in these companies today. So someone who became owner in the conversion and privatisation, sucked out everything that could be taken from that company, took it either into bankruptcy or gave it up for 1 kuna, owed it to huge credit obligations, came up with a new owner. I don't believe that this syntagma that's in the pit is going to work. Most of these citizens who have worked in this way have neither real estate nor family in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this one law should apply not only to the tax debt but to all the obligations of the citizens. Both in local self-government and in society as a whole. This is particularly the issue of Article 211. So, the powers conferred by the minister and given powers, I am particularly interested in what it means to authorise the finance minister to prescribe, within 4 months of the date of entry into force of this law, a way of acting in good faith. Now, because we're here to extend another four months until the rules are passed, that we all believe in good faith, or that good faith, because this is not a question of religion and belief, but the question of the law should be defined by law. Good faith can be a relative thing. It's good faith for someone if I tell you now you've been in debt for 10 years, so in good faith, you can owe another 30 years. So that good faith also allows one possibility of malfeasance, regardless of what I suspect the minister of the present would go into that kind, but the law does not prescribe good faith. So one whole series of questions that are being opened in this law, but I say we're going to support it from this very basic part that no crime can go out of date, especially the robbery of citizens. But I believe that this is exactly how one law does certain failures and misunderstandings, first of all, on the issue of constitutionality and the assessment of the constitutionality of this law should not go into emergency procedures. Because this emergency procedure won't prevent this from happening, and even this 4 months until the rules are passed, it won't make someone return what God didn't steal as soon as possible, but I believe that one large majority of this tax debt has just come from the inability to pay does not work the global economic crisis, but rather because of this crisis that we have done in the last 20 years, not in the last 2 years, but in these 20 and something more years. I am sorry that this is primarily a technical law, a law that has a political dimension but much more important and I am sorry that there are no colleagues Jelusic here because then the chairman probably took a break so that he could not respond, and it is about this next law and that kilo of bread and that liter of milk, but here are those sandwiches that these youngsters will eat and will collect very quickly. That is not true, and my colleague, the Czech Republic, will speak on behalf of the club, it is not true that we are forced by Europe, or the EU, that this law must enter into force on 1 January 2013. Because here is the statement on the consistency of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax signed by us and the EU Coordinator on 6.11.2012, which provides for the full harmonisation of the EU acquis proposal by the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to EU membership. So it's not even 1.07.2013 because who guarantees us that we will enter the EU on 1.07.2013? Stefan Füle or Angela Merkle? Is it true, then, that it was 1.01.2013? So I knew what I was talking about. And no one says the SDP raises VAT to 5%, the government raises. Government – SDP, HNS, HSU and who else has IDS. So that's the only truth you need to tell the citizens. And that that liter of milk from the day of publication in the National Journal will cost 5%. And that that pound of bread will be black, white, mixed, rye I'm gonna go back to this very much about this law that's been pitting, it's stuck. [[Upadica Batinić: A colleague of Vinkovic, but this is the next item of the agenda.]] Now, even in this law that you're passing, regardless of this signature with the EU, the same question is raised, is that a guarantee? So if we just made a commitment that it would take effect on the day of Croatia's EU accession, then what are we going to do and run ahead of the ore? We don't have to, but obviously we have to fill the state budget. And from whom shall we take? There's no one left than the citizens. And that's true. So I didn't start this story first. I'm sorry there's no colleague Jelusic, but I know what I'm reading and what's been signed by the government. The other thing is that someone else was in negotiations and that's how he arranged it. Well, Croatia enters this EU em robbed by those who have been bailing out, who have been exploited in conversion and privatisation, which probably not even this good intention of this law that the HDSSB will support will not succeed in returning those funds simply to the knees, on their knees, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and I must admit it to the citizens. That's the only truth. So I think I'm still going to stay on account of the importance of value added tax, but in any case, what's written here, and in this law, we're not going to back the value added tax. This law will be supported but bear in mind that you should go in two readings if there are many things that are tied up and not well worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22987	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. The real one came from Dear Zgrebec Vice President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22988	Col. Vinkovic, this is not a technical law and has no concern that he might fall in the constitutional court because he has no feedback, he only determines during a certain period of disproportionateity between property and income. So it's not technical because it will determine that someone has acquired illegal property, they will determine his tax. The tax administration cannot handle criminal charges but in such a case, the Penal Code states that one who contributes to tax evasion can be sentenced to up to three years in prison. Therefore, and after that, the second law or criminal liability shall be established under the second law. You have talked here about the conversion and privatisation, the change of the Constitution and the adoption of the Law on the Enabling of such misdemeanors, in fact, and all irregularities or irregularities identified by the revision of conversion and privatisation can either be sanctioned or must be sanctioned by the fact that the State Audit Office has carried out in those few years as it audited the conversion and privatisation of a significant number of irregularities and illegalities, determined who are responsible persons and courts have a facilitated situation to impose sanctions on such persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22989	Thank you. We have a response to the replica Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22990	Well, I'm not an esteemed advocate that it's purely technical law. I said this law is political law. And the HDSSB club supported this law, bearing in mind exactly the intention of non-deprecatedness, I would say both crime and robbery of Croatian citizens. I think I've made myself clear. On the other hand, I would like that revision of conversion and privatisation to be made in 2000 rather than in 2012. I don't know of any case that someone who has had to say so the easy circumstances of conversion and privatisation, regardless of the famous State Audit and the findings of these audits, because I reported the PIC Đakovo which is now in bankruptcy, more to us than the S of bankruptcy or the P of P.I. Djakovo and ended up behind the lock. There isn't, and that's not gonna happen. What about these big companies? Well, they were sold to strangers. I don't think there's any way to do that at all. On the other hand, I feel that this law should go to another reading of the good faith. Each of us has a good faith, so various things can happen to him in that good faith. I had a good faith, and I did an extremely bad thing. So good faith and even he was called and the minister could not be called in the law by good faith but must be a legal element.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22991	Thank you. And the next replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Vinkovic's you've appealed to it for a number of reasons why this law should go to another reading. I will agree with you, but I will add another reason because then and in some ways we would avoid this business irregularity in which we adopt this law, which is that the Legislative Committee did not give an opinion on the proposal for certain provisions of this law to be applied retroactively or to have feedback. And it's not true that it won't have any feedback. It will have because it now has one category that practically does not depreciate tax identification because it does not say within what time limit the origin of the property can be examined backwards. So when it can be infinitely and infinitely backwards, and then let's say from '950 or '960, that's what the law says, then there's a tax liability for something like '960. And I'll read the president of the Legislative Committee didn't read it on behalf of the board, but I'll say it. Members of the Legislative Committee who are certainly favored by the proposer because most of the members of the ruling committee have therefore proposed to review the provision of this proposal relating to absolute and relative deadlines. In particular, the provisions of the General Tax Code applicable to antiquity in tax procedures have caused a number of difficulties in the practice of the tax authorities, given that the Institute is outdated in the tax procedure as a combination of antiquity institute which is known by the civil law and an obsolescence institute that is familiar with criminal law. In this context, it is pointed out that the need for a more precise provision of antiquity in a tax procedure is to avoid the distinction between relative and absolute limitation periods. Following this, it is pointed out that possible solutions prescribed by the provisions of the Penal Code, etc., etc. So on this basis, I firmly believe that the Proposer could accept the advice of his committee and, therefore, it would be a good idea for it to go to another reading to be then, and to act in business.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22993	It's time, co-worker. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22994	Well, I agree that, anyway, and we asked exactly, I think that given the experience of the bill, and if something isn't charged in six years, so I don't see any reason to charge it now if we put this law into another reading, that it will immediately be charged for the reason that we might even sleep through this law a little bit more and maybe come up with some better solutions that now we'll suddenly be able to collect it. I welcome the intention, so the political intention is fine and the HDSSB supports the political intention, but the law opens up a series of some I would say legal concerns. I also remind you of this Article 211, I also remind you of the write-off of the tax debt due. Today we have many and even those from conversion and privatisation that have raised millions, transferred them to Virgin Islands, here they probably have an apartment of 45 square meters that isn't on them, separated from their wives and children and nothing. He doesn't have any real estate. I don't know if anyone managed to collect anything from those obligations from conversion and privatisation. I'm saying it's not. When I look at my Djakovo and the surrounding area, the people who took part in the conversion and privatisation today are...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22995	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22996	Only fellow Vinkovic that we are now not discussing the VAT Act, so these props of yours are a little prematurely brought in but will now respond to the replica of his colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22997	It is true to counterpart Vinkovic that he will collect, that bread and milk will be 5% more expensive and that the tax on bread and milk is introduced 5% that is correct, that is what you said well. But you also know why this is happening and you don't want to say it. You want to leave behind a mystery like that SDP came to power and now the citizens will collect your bread and milk 5%. That's, you didn't say that, but it's a message because you don't say what's behind it and you know very well that there's coordination with the EU behind it. If the EU we want to join, we all want to enter, there is no... Please don't interrupt me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No zero rate. Therefore, bread and milk are collected because we are entering the EU 5%, no more zero rates. That's why it seems you know it very well, but you don't want to say it because it doesn't suit you, you want to say something else, but let me rephrase it for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22998	Second replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u22999	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague of Jelusic you said you changed this period of very many tax laws, which is correct. Also, you said the laws are passed to apply to everyone, but unfortunately, of course, it's always so that they apply to one majority, they don't apply to others, one more suffers the other less. That's how it happened with these lists of shame, so-called shame. which appeared from the Tax Administration outside and which, as already said here, appeared several times in the newspapers and did not give the right picture of the situation, not all those who were supposed to be on those lists were published. Of course, those who have the most and should perhaps be among the first were not published. I would say that I don't understand why we're talking here about how it's good that so many laws have been changed when I get in touch with the citizens and get a completely different impression. Citizens feel nothing good about changing laws, tax laws. The craftsmen and small entrepreneurs don't feel any good either, so it seems to me that we're going the wrong way, that something's going wrong, that we didn't get a good look at what this society is supposed to do, give these people and give it to them. But here, tomorrow, i.e. After this point, the opportunity to do something good is to cut the other VAT to 10% in order to finally give a good signal to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23000	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23001	My dear colleague, I believe that you are an emotional man and that you feel with people, but that you are feeling everything that the citizens think about, and that you may be being deceived, in particular, by not knowing what the citizens think if you deliberately want to inform them otherwise and to give other information. If someone got a slightly higher salary for a hundred kunas because we changed income tax, he sees it on his salary. Maybe you don't see it with him if you have a far higher salary, but the one who pays more than 100k, so the team cancels the VAT increase by 2% because there's about 2% on his salary he sees it. You don't have to see it, but don't feel bad for those you don't see how they feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23002	The third replica is the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23003	Thank you very much. In fact, I would ask you a colleague Jelusic about your discussion when you have already raised the question of morality in one part of your presentation, is it moral to open up all citizens and all different and legal and legal persons in this country at risk and put over it and give the IRS the right to open proceedings against them no matter when and at what time and how far away this property has been acquired, in order to eventually reach several? Whose names and names is the IRS probably that? As far as the IRS are concerned, criminal activities related to smuggling, drugs, this, the IRS and the I.P.S. are concerned, their names are so well known. And that's what we're different about. You think it's moral to open the front of all citizens in order to eventually find someone guilty. I think it's not that we should stick to the law as it is and we can't occasionally remember to go back as far as it suits the state power. The state force should still be kept within certain limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23004	And this replica corresponds to Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23005	You yourself said that the law applies to everything and applies to everything equally. That's right. Therefore, the fact that some have been protected by these laws so far is that you still want to protect them, and everything in shape is to protect the rest of the citizens. No, I don't. We don't protect the rest of these citizens because those citizens I said that in my debate that paid a tax on property they acquired legally have nothing to fear, they won't be touched. Those who have no proof of their property will be touched and should be touched. The one with his salary, credit, etc. Buy a regular apartment and pay taxes won't touch it and let's not scare the citizens. After all, let's not go so reductively... that means that we could do this, we have the Road Traffic Safety Act, now you could say so why control all citizens when only some commit a violation, do you seem to know exactly who commits the offence in HDZ? Maybe when it comes to tax evasion and you know who committed the crime, maybe that's what you helped with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23006	Now it will be replicated by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23007	Dear Mr Jelusic, you have rightly asked the question of morality because many laws that are amoral or against morality have been passed in this House. In this House, the laws that allowed robbery privatisation were passed, and then some of the more difficult ones that the caved in were because what if we let those who stole not pay the tax on what they stole, means that we agreed with that thesis who put up the pit was a jam. But I repeat again, it's all about illegally acquired property. Illegally acquired assets taxing it means legalizing a robbery. If someone won the theft if something was stolen, how can you put on a stolen tax? I mean illogically. And even to use the words of Mr. Jelusic immorally, that something was stolen or something if the dealer built a house or bought five cars and now we need to give a tax on that value or simply explain how you think it is? How is it possible that something that's stolen can put a tax on what's stolen? When you put a tax on it, you taxed something, and this rest is legalized. It's like an illegal construction. Now you've allowed what was an obvious violation to be legalized. All right, that's what we agreed to was voted out and now we're legalizing what's been stolen. It is therefore very difficult for us to agree on this. And I'd just like to point out that you have zero rates, there is, in Great Britain there. The thing is, you're not going to say that the negotiators had a bad negotiation. We could have had a zero rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23008	Answers the respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23009	I agree with you at first. So you can't have someone who's a criminal who's been dealing drugs and that's made a lot of money and bought property with this amnesty, and I agree with you, and this law doesn't solve it. Therefore, you would be dealing with crime in general crime through the IRS. It's being dealt with by another law, and that's what needs to be done. Tax laws charge taxes, so we want to say that we need to charge taxes with that. If he is involved in criminal activities and has acquired it, it is not amnesty that this will be charged tax, only then he follows either before or parallel with this and another process which is not... under this law but under the other laws of this country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23010	And the last replica, the esteemed Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23011	Dear colleagues, I was invited to this replica by the exposure of Mr Jelusic when he found that counterpart Vinkovic did not understand what the government had proposed. I can say that we often have a lot of trouble understanding what the government is proposing, and even with much more pain, we are trying to understand what the goal of some government proposal is, even though this law is being understood. So far, the fact has often been one I can say to the non-existent or rotten alibi of the state institutions of the IRS and, moreover, that they could not charge the tax, they could not determine the origin of the property because the limitation period for it has been 6 years. Tens of thousands of people work in these institutions, and it's a little odd that they need six years at all, let alone a lot longer so that in the days of today's information when virtually all data has one place to determine that someone has acquired something illegal, has not paid taxes and has not been taxed in time. So my opinion is that this law is also one way of petting the eyes of the public. We will support this law, not because we think that without it, it can't be easy for both the Tax Administration and other institutions of the state in whose job description that part of the task has been thrown out by this non-existent or rotten alibi that they couldn't handle it because of an age-old period of 6 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23012	And the last answer to the last line, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23013	Comrade Drmic, you said you didn't understand. Well, maybe I can understand you, you don't understand the laws when this government proposes who are just, righteous and moral. This law is like that. I don't know why you have a problem understanding this, but well, you don't have to understand, I won't be here, and I won't have time to convince you that you understand it, but I believe that those to whom this applies are most citizens of the Republic of Croatia understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23014	It's 13 o'clock and 33 minutes. I'm advertising a break now. We will continue at 3 p.m. and the HDSSB club and the distinguished representative Zoran Vinković will be in place. Good for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23015	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23016	... The HDSSB club will support this law. [[Specially enabled.]] I wish there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance here, since we will support it exclusively from the good intentions of this Law but not from the way this Law opens up many issues which are primarily related to the issue, I would even say that this Law will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court. In any case, this Law abolishes the famous saying "who has made a pit, a pit" and should indeed, above all, also commend the proposal's intention to ensure that what is guaranteed is adequately and returned. But given everything that has been happening all these years, there is also a legitimate question, the institute that had first to oversee tax discipline, which had to enable all citizens equality, that constitutional equality before the law. He obviously didn't do it. Because I don't believe anyone can be in debt for four, five, six years. Then when he comes six years and one day, as children play those games of turkey dots no longer apply and that debt no longer exists, the tax debt no longer exists. On the other hand, the question of the possibility of billing at all, because knowing that even on those lists, I wouldn't say shame. Because those who did not carry out their duty to this society can be ashamed of themselves and pay their obligations as well as all other citizens, but it was above all a list of obligations. The list was to specialise those who concluded contracts with both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance. But the question of payment is justified, because of that tax debt of 52 billion kuna, so out of almost half the budget of the Republic of Croatia I would also like to see a list of those who paid the tax, who were charged and republished the list of those who did not pay the tax. This is not any spit on entrepreneurs or on the economy, especially to single out a list where these taxpayers managed to settle with the state. So that's the debate I had a few months ago. And I'm glad the IRS accepted it. I've been charged as much as I know something more or about 4 billion kunas. We still have over 45 billion kunas of tax debt not charged. The question in that guarantee, don't think that those who vouched, that they had just left everything in Croatia. There's a little in the Swiss banks. You can't get into them. There's little in those famous companies on Virgin Islands. There are many funds not in real estate in Croatia, but around the world, perhaps in Hawaii, the Canary Islands, etc. etc. So we need to start with that real, increased, there's two more thousand revisions of conversion and privatisation. Because like crimes, war crimes, war profits don't get old, neither should this profit and this crime that happened in conversion and privatisation. It's a question of non-deprecated debt. I would not want this law to turn into a certain constitutional category in view of its retroactiveness, and I am against it at all that someone who actually stole these citizens after six years is amnesty or amnesty by paying a certain tax debt. So I won't mention dealers because they'll eventually come to justice. But I don't believe and doubt that those who have drawn money from Croatian citizens' pockets and Croatian economies will come in this way. You have other owners in these companies today. So someone who became owner in the conversion and privatisation, sucked out everything that could be taken from that company, took it either into bankruptcy or gave it up for 1 kuna, owed it to huge credit obligations, came up with a new owner. I don't believe that this syntagma that's in the pit is going to work. Most of these citizens who have worked in this way have neither real estate nor family in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this one law should apply not only to the tax debt but to all the obligations of the citizens. Both in local self-government and in society as a whole. This is particularly the issue of Article 211. So, the powers conferred by the minister and given powers, I am particularly interested in what it means to authorise the finance minister to prescribe, within 4 months of the date of entry into force of this law, a way of acting in good faith. Now, because we're here to extend another four months until the rules are passed, that we all believe in good faith, or that good faith, because this is not a question of religion and belief, but the question of the law should be defined by law. Good faith can be a relative thing. It's good faith for someone if I tell you now you've been in debt for 10 years, so in good faith, you can owe another 30 years. So that good faith also allows one possibility of malfeasance, regardless of what I suspect the minister of the present would go into that kind, but the law does not prescribe good faith. So one whole series of questions that are being opened in this law, but I say we're going to support it from this very basic part that no crime can go out of date, especially the robbery of citizens. But I believe that this is exactly how one law does certain failures and misunderstandings, first of all, on the issue of constitutionality and the assessment of the constitutionality of this law should not go into emergency procedures. Because this emergency procedure won't prevent this from happening, and even this 4 months until the rules are passed, it won't make someone return what God didn't steal as soon as possible, but I believe that one large majority of this tax debt has just come from the inability to pay does not work the global economic crisis, but rather because of this crisis that we have done in the last 20 years, not in the last 2 years, but in these 20 and something more years. I am sorry that this is primarily a technical law, a law that has a political dimension but much more important and I am sorry that there are no colleagues Jelusic here because then the chairman probably took a break so that he could not respond, and it is about this next law and that kilo of bread and that liter of milk, but here are those sandwiches that these youngsters will eat and will collect very quickly. That is not true, and my colleague, the Czech Republic, will speak on behalf of the club, it is not true that we are forced by Europe, or the EU, that this law must enter into force on 1 January 2013. Because here is the statement on the consistency of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax signed by us and the EU Coordinator on 6.11.2012, which provides for the full harmonisation of the EU acquis proposal by the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to EU membership. So it's not even 1.07.2013 because who guarantees us that we will enter the EU on 1.07.2013? Stefan Füle or Angela Merkle? Is it true, then, that it was 1.01.2013? So I knew what I was talking about. And no one says the SDP raises VAT to 5%, the government raises. Government – SDP, HNS, HSU and who else has IDS. So that's the only truth you need to tell the citizens. And that that liter of milk from the day of publication in the National Journal will cost 5%. And that that pound of bread will be black, white, mixed, rye I'm gonna go back to this very much about this law that's been pitting, it's stuck. [[Upadica Batinić: A colleague of Vinkovic, but this is the next item of the agenda.]] Now, even in this law that you're passing, regardless of this signature with the EU, the same question is raised, is that a guarantee? So if we just made a commitment that it would take effect on the day of Croatia's EU accession, then what are we going to do and run ahead of the ore? We don't have to, but obviously we have to fill the state budget. And from whom shall we take? There's no one left than the citizens. And that's true. So I didn't start this story first. I'm sorry there's no colleague Jelusic, but I know what I'm reading and what's been signed by the government. The other thing is that someone else was in negotiations and that's how he arranged it. Well, Croatia enters this EU em robbed by those who have been bailing out, who have been exploited in conversion and privatisation, which probably not even this good intention of this law that the HDSSB will support will not succeed in returning those funds simply to the knees, on their knees, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and I must admit it to the citizens. That's the only truth. So I think I'm still going to stay on account of the importance of value added tax, but in any case, what's written here, and in this law, we're not going to back the value added tax. This law will be supported but bear in mind that you should go in two readings if there are many things that are tied up and not well worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23017	... The HDSSB club will support this law. [[Specially enabled.]] I wish there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance here, since we will support it exclusively from the good intentions of this Law but not from the way this Law opens up many issues which are primarily related to the issue, I would even say that this Law will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court. In any case, this Law abolishes the famous saying "who has made a pit, a pit" and should indeed, above all, also commend the proposal's intention to ensure that what is guaranteed is adequately and returned. But given everything that has been happening all these years, there is also a legitimate question, the institute that had first to oversee tax discipline, which had to enable all citizens equality, that constitutional equality before the law. He obviously didn't do it. Because I don't believe anyone can be in debt for four, five, six years. Then when he comes six years and one day, as children play those games of turkey dots no longer apply and that debt no longer exists, the tax debt no longer exists. On the other hand, the question of the possibility of billing at all, because knowing that even on those lists, I wouldn't say shame. Because those who did not carry out their duty to this society can be ashamed of themselves and pay their obligations as well as all other citizens, but it was above all a list of obligations. The list was to specialise those who concluded contracts with both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance. But the question of payment is justified, because of that tax debt of 52 billion kuna, so out of almost half the budget of the Republic of Croatia I would also like to see a list of those who paid the tax, who were charged and republished the list of those who did not pay the tax. This is not any spit on entrepreneurs or on the economy, especially to single out a list where these taxpayers managed to settle with the state. So that's the debate I had a few months ago. And I'm glad the IRS accepted it. I've been charged as much as I know something more or about 4 billion kunas. We still have over 45 billion kunas of tax debt not charged. The question in that guarantee, don't think that those who vouched, that they had just left everything in Croatia. There's a little in the Swiss banks. You can't get into them. There's little in those famous companies on Virgin Islands. There are many funds not in real estate in Croatia, but around the world, perhaps in Hawaii, the Canary Islands, etc. etc. So we need to start with that real, increased, there's two more thousand revisions of conversion and privatisation. Because like crimes, war crimes, war profits don't get old, neither should this profit and this crime that happened in conversion and privatisation. It's a question of non-deprecated debt. I would not want this law to turn into a certain constitutional category in view of its retroactiveness, and I am against it at all that someone who actually stole these citizens after six years is amnesty or amnesty by paying a certain tax debt. So I won't mention dealers because they'll eventually come to justice. But I don't believe and doubt that those who have drawn money from Croatian citizens' pockets and Croatian economies will come in this way. You have other owners in these companies today. So someone who became owner in the conversion and privatisation, sucked out everything that could be taken from that company, took it either into bankruptcy or gave it up for 1 kuna, owed it to huge credit obligations, came up with a new owner. I don't believe that this syntagma that's in the pit is going to work. Most of these citizens who have worked in this way have neither real estate nor family in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that this one law should apply not only to the tax debt but to all the obligations of the citizens. Both in local self-government and in society as a whole. This is particularly the issue of Article 211. So, the powers conferred by the minister and given powers, I am particularly interested in what it means to authorise the finance minister to prescribe, within 4 months of the date of entry into force of this law, a way of acting in good faith. Now, because we're here to extend another four months until the rules are passed, that we all believe in good faith, or that good faith, because this is not a question of religion and belief, but the question of the law should be defined by law. Good faith can be a relative thing. It's good faith for someone if I tell you now you've been in debt for 10 years, so in good faith, you can owe another 30 years. So that good faith also allows one possibility of malfeasance, regardless of what I suspect the minister of the present would go into that kind, but the law does not prescribe good faith. So one whole series of questions that are being opened in this law, but I say we're going to support it from this very basic part that no crime can go out of date, especially the robbery of citizens. But I believe that this is exactly how one law does certain failures and misunderstandings, first of all, on the issue of constitutionality and the assessment of the constitutionality of this law should not go into emergency procedures. Because this emergency procedure won't prevent this from happening, and even this 4 months until the rules are passed, it won't make someone return what God didn't steal as soon as possible, but I believe that one large majority of this tax debt has just come from the inability to pay does not work the global economic crisis, but rather because of this crisis that we have done in the last 20 years, not in the last 2 years, but in these 20 and something more years. I am sorry that this is primarily a technical law, a law that has a political dimension but much more important and I am sorry that there are no colleagues Jelusic here because then the chairman probably took a break so that he could not respond, and it is about this next law and that kilo of bread and that liter of milk, but here are those sandwiches that these youngsters will eat and will collect very quickly. That is not true, and my colleague, the Czech Republic, will speak on behalf of the club, it is not true that we are forced by Europe, or the EU, that this law must enter into force on 1 January 2013. Because here is the statement on the consistency of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax signed by us and the EU Coordinator on 6.11.2012, which provides for the full harmonisation of the EU acquis proposal by the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to EU membership. So it's not even 1.07.2013 because who guarantees us that we will enter the EU on 1.07.2013? Stefan Füle or Angela Merkle? Is it true, then, that it was 1.01.2013? So I knew what I was talking about. And no one says the SDP raises VAT to 5%, the government raises. Government – SDP, HNS, HSU and who else has IDS. So that's the only truth you need to tell the citizens. And that that liter of milk from the day of publication in the National Journal will cost 5%. And that that pound of bread will be black, white, mixed, rye I'm gonna go back to this very much about this law that's been pitting, it's stuck. [[Upadica Batinić: A colleague of Vinkovic, but this is the next item of the agenda.]] Now, even in this law that you're passing, regardless of this signature with the EU, the same question is raised, is that a guarantee? So if we just made a commitment that it would take effect on the day of Croatia's EU accession, then what are we going to do and run ahead of the ore? We don't have to, but obviously we have to fill the state budget. And from whom shall we take? There's no one left than the citizens. And that's true. So I didn't start this story first. I'm sorry there's no colleague Jelusic, but I know what I'm reading and what's been signed by the government. The other thing is that someone else was in negotiations and that's how he arranged it. Well, Croatia enters this EU em robbed by those who have been bailing out, who have been exploited in conversion and privatisation, which probably not even this good intention of this law that the HDSSB will support will not succeed in returning those funds simply to the knees, on their knees, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and I must admit it to the citizens. That's the only truth. So I think I'm still going to stay on account of the importance of value added tax, but in any case, what's written here, and in this law, we're not going to back the value added tax. This law will be supported but bear in mind that you should go in two readings if there are many things that are tied up and not well worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23018	Col. Vinkovic, this is not a technical law and has no concern that he might fall in the constitutional court because he has no feedback, he only determines during a certain period of disproportionateity between property and income. So it's not technical because it will determine that someone has acquired illegal property, they will determine his tax. The tax administration cannot handle criminal charges but in such a case, the Penal Code states that one who contributes to tax evasion can be sentenced to up to three years in prison. Therefore, and after that, the second law or criminal liability shall be established under the second law. You have talked here about the conversion and privatisation, the change of the Constitution and the adoption of the Law on the Enabling of such misdemeanors, in fact, and all irregularities or irregularities identified by the revision of conversion and privatisation can either be sanctioned or must be sanctioned by the fact that the State Audit Office has carried out in those few years as it audited the conversion and privatisation of a significant number of irregularities and illegalities, determined who are responsible persons and courts have a facilitated situation to impose sanctions on such persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23019	Thank you. We have a response to the replica Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23020	Well, I'm not an esteemed advocate that it's purely technical law. I said this law is political law. And the HDSSB club supported this law, bearing in mind exactly the intention of non-deprecatedness, I would say both crime and robbery of Croatian citizens. I think I've made myself clear. On the other hand, I would like that revision of conversion and privatisation to be made in 2000 rather than in 2012. I don't know of any case that someone who has had to say so the easy circumstances of conversion and privatisation, regardless of the famous State Audit and the findings of these audits, because I reported the PIC Đakovo which is now in bankruptcy, more to us than the S of bankruptcy or the P of P.I. Djakovo and ended up behind the lock. There isn't, and that's not gonna happen. What about these big companies? Well, they were sold to strangers. I don't think there's any way to do that at all. On the other hand, I feel that this law should go to another reading of the good faith. Each of us has a good faith, so various things can happen to him in that good faith. I had a good faith, and I did an extremely bad thing. So good faith and even he was called and the minister could not be called in the law by good faith but must be a legal element.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23021	Thank you. And the next replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Vinkovic's you've appealed to it for a number of reasons why this law should go to another reading. I will agree with you, but I will add another reason because then and in some ways we would avoid this business irregularity in which we adopt this law, which is that the Legislative Committee did not give an opinion on the proposal for certain provisions of this law to be applied retroactively or to have feedback. And it's not true that it won't have any feedback. It will have because it now has one category that practically does not depreciate tax identification because it does not say within what time limit the origin of the property can be examined backwards. So when it can be infinitely and infinitely backwards, and then let's say from '950 or '960, that's what the law says, then there's a tax liability for something like '960. And I'll read the president of the Legislative Committee didn't read it on behalf of the board, but I'll say it. Members of the Legislative Committee who are certainly favored by the proposer because most of the members of the ruling committee have therefore proposed to review the provision of this proposal relating to absolute and relative deadlines. In particular, the provisions of the General Tax Code applicable to antiquity in tax procedures have caused a number of difficulties in the practice of the tax authorities, given that the Institute is outdated in the tax procedure as a combination of antiquity institute which is known by the civil law and an obsolescence institute that is familiar with criminal law. In this context, it is pointed out that the need for a more precise provision of antiquity in a tax procedure is to avoid the distinction between relative and absolute limitation periods. Following this, it is pointed out that possible solutions prescribed by the provisions of the Penal Code, etc., etc. So on this basis, I firmly believe that the Proposer could accept the advice of his committee and, therefore, it would be a good idea for it to go to another reading to be then, and to act in business.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23023	It's time, co-worker. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23024	Well, I agree that, anyway, and we asked exactly, I think that given the experience of the bill, and if something isn't charged in six years, so I don't see any reason to charge it now if we put this law into another reading, that it will immediately be charged for the reason that we might even sleep through this law a little bit more and maybe come up with some better solutions that now we'll suddenly be able to collect it. I welcome the intention, so the political intention is fine and the HDSSB supports the political intention, but the law opens up a series of some I would say legal concerns. I also remind you of this Article 211, I also remind you of the write-off of the tax debt due. Today we have many and even those from conversion and privatisation that have raised millions, transferred them to Virgin Islands, here they probably have an apartment of 45 square meters that isn't on them, separated from their wives and children and nothing. He doesn't have any real estate. I don't know if anyone managed to collect anything from those obligations from conversion and privatisation. I'm saying it's not. When I look at my Djakovo and the surrounding area, the people who took part in the conversion and privatisation today are...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23025	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23026	I'm done. They have a higher standard than both the vice presidents of the Parliament and all of us MPs, to make that clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23027	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. We continue with an individual debate on the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Tax Code. Nancy Tyrelli, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we've heard today since this law has been discussed. Now here we have heard in one replica that this law is passed for the purpose of disproportionate property and income of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and now I come with myself, and I believe a lot of us in some confusion, do we really need this law to determine this disproportionate property and income. In particular, the Income Tax Act de facto states that in order to correctly determine the obligation of income tax and other taxes that the Tax Administration is required during the year to collect data on taxable incomes of natural persons, to monitor the turnover of goods and to carry out all other necessary actions, and in Article 2 of that same Law, it states that the Tax Administration is obliged to pay income on the basis of non-permanent work, independent activity, property and property rights from capital, from insurance and other non-taxable incomes and claims to compare with data on fixed, mobile and other assets and other expenditure of natural persons and their obligations during the tax period. This comparison is carried out by the Tax Administration on the basis of the data available, the data communicated by the taxpayer and the data from other sources. So in this law it is very nice and readably written which are obligations and obligations of the Tax Administration, but since the beginning of this year I will not say every week but at least one law monthly regarding taxes relating to tradesmen and entrepreneurs, relating to citizens in the Republic of Croatia who want to impose some belief that the time and time to deal with all those who have not worked legally so far, and that is fine, and we all agree that whoever illegally acquired that property should be paid and paid. However, a question arises as to what the IRS is doing. We also praise the fact that at a certain point, we light a red light that warns about who needs to be controlled and why. So it turns out that the IRS has absolutely all the infrastructure, that it has everything it needs but in the end it needs another law where we'd say even more clearly how and what it needs to be. How effective is the tax authority in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. how many kunas this Tax Administration is, the tax authority spends on that kuna it taxed and I think it is one of the questions that we should ask in order to analyse the work of the tax authorities and their structure of expenditure. 'Cause here's the '97. In the year, 3285 employees were employed by the IRS. Now in 2012, we have an indicative number, and we can't get to the exact point from 4982 employees. The cost of the Tax Administration in continuity is growing, and now it turns out that with some next law we will probably win here on our assembly benches a bill where all citizens who have any information about the illegally acquired property of their neighbor, brother, sister or anyone else will be punished or reported by that same Tax Administration for failing to carry out their civic assignment and reporting someone. So, the problem is that we are passing all the laws precisely because we are filling the state budget by not thinking at all at the moment what we are doing and at what point we are punishing obviously those who are paid for their work, but are not doing it in the way that it should be done. And that's where the question arises, which is why there have been so many outstanding claims. What was done or, more specifically, not done. We heard today also from this right-hand side that this law is being passed because the bill has so far not defined what the account set must have and that this law is being passed precisely for the purpose of keeping everything under control and seeing exactly who buys what, who pays what. So on the basis of this law that we're making today, I think it doesn't agree with the law that we recently passed, which is the fiscalization law, at least on the fundamental elements that the fiscalization law should have. So here I would ask the Deputy Minister to explain to me afterwards which law is valid, which law is stronger and which law of these two, so the Fiscalization Act and these amendments that we are making today must be respected by the taxpayer in order to comply with the law and not be punished by that Tax Administration because of these elements he intended to double-cross the state budget. The next thing I know, it's an article 119 that's being erased like that, and I'm sorry, I'm very sorry about that because it turns out that here's the pay and it's being sued. So, again, we're going to protect the state's economic interest as the bill promoter writes here on the grounds of Article 9 being made, so I'm asking myself whether this tax administration, or tax authority, is, at all times right and makes legitimate decisions, i.e. first-degree judgments, where there are irregularities in the inspection supervision of a particular business entity. As a rule, he has the right to appeal for a second-degree solution which is again submitted to the same IRS. Second-degree solution in 99% of cases similar to first-degree cases. And so far, we have had this article, 119, where we have made it possible for the prosecutor to submit here, that it can be delayed until the end of the administrative dispute if the execution of a solution would cause serious compensation to the prosecutor, if the delay is not contrary to the public interest. So here is just to note that yesterday we were also in defense and analysis of the 2013 budget not on one occasion, but almost all day listening to how little, medium-sized economy is important for the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. And now with this expropriation of Article 119, we come to the tax administration again giving every authority that this entrepreneur has absolutely no mechanism to protect himself in any way. And again, we're only protecting one side, and that's the state budget under the pretext that we're doing it all for the protection of the state's economic interest. I do, and this time I appeal that we finally start doing all our jobs together, that those who are paid to carry out tax controls on taxpayers do so in continuity. Because it turns out that if we have 5,000 tax workers working in the Tax Administration and if we put all 4 million and a half inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia as taxpayers, then it turns out that every tax worker can do 2.7% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in one day, which means he would have enough time to see if that lamp for two or three citizens of the Republic of Croatia lit up or didn't light up and that it really works out and that it really does punish those who should be punished, rather than that things are generalised and that they are constantly saying that the citizens of Croatia are stealing and that all of these laws are being passed solely because nothing has been done so far and we have decided to finally end everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23029	Thank you. We have one replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23030	You see, fellow Members, today's message to all MPs, I've heard little and this right-hand side, I have to defend a little bit. It should be really clear and loud that this Croatian Parliament and this assembly of MPs, but also those who were in the last meeting cannot accept the one "who has pitted, pitied. Now, the other thing is that I don't think this law should go by emergency procedure just to avoid certain things, so I'd say the bad things in this law that will allow whoever really put up that pit, and we're going to stare like sheep here. We had a good political will, unfortunately we couldn't do anything. And it's a danger to the law written like this. On the other hand, you also opened up a question that was known in socialism. However, this was then called the Commission for the Origin of Assets. I remember we were high school kids, there was a commission or commission, they started researching, and they all ended up with some blue envelopes in their pocket, and nothing happened. I don't want that to happen right now, with the law written like this. So that's the basic problem. I watch here in Djakov because the workers, the peasants, especially those who have lost their jobs, suffer the most. We're talking about reviewing conversion and privatisation, and no one's been punished yet. There were 3300 people working in PIC Djakov. Today, the city of Djakovo has 2600 unemployed. Most of them are from there. And what are we talking about? Justice, social justice?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23031	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23032	Those who made that PIC's destruction today don't give a shit, so I don't say what hurts them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23033	Time for my colleague Vinkovic. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23034	I agree with my colleague, Vinkovic, that whoever put up for it and that's exactly what I was saying, but that whoever did the IRS has to start doing their job and it has to start doing their job spotlessly because in six years, it's gonna happen again that we haven't been able to do what we were supposed to do. So if this law is passed in order to punish those who have done so before then we can consider it as such "old objects", but if 5 thousand taxpayers are given the next 6 years to determine who is not doing something now, then that's another problem, and I'm pointing to that. I agree with you that another reading is needed because here, from today on in this entire debate, we have concluded that, and I hope that the promoters have also realized that there are certain misunderstandings that, as such, should be considered even more concretely, and that this law then comes to another reading to make sure that all the criteria that such a law should have are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23035	Thank you. Next up for debate, Zlatko Komadina. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. We have the Deputy Minister with us. Deputy final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23036	... I'm thinking from your point of view of some doubt about this part of retroactivity. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] I just wanted to say this. So why was that suggested? It is precisely on the basis of the current case-law confirmed by administrative courts. Here I can read to you there are a number of cases in court practice, so one of the conclusions of the Court of Justice's Court's Court's 2001 Court's session that the establishment of an absolute limitation of the tax authority's right to determine tax obligations is relevant when the tax authority finds out about the tax liability. Also, there is the same Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in an explanation in judgment No. US1036/02 of 6 December 2006 also speaks of such things. So we've brought this up, so we haven't thought about it, but it's actually colleagues who have been in the IRS and prepared this part of the law that exists and also legal professionals who have passed all the procedures that are based on the caselaw means administrative courts that have made such solutions go into law. So there's a case law in this section so we think it means if it's already shown by the caselaw that we've actually tried to incorporate it into the law. Here it was, my colleague Nancy was saying that it should be about people who find out about people like that having illegal property that I don't know that they should be reported or something. Well, your colleague actually spoke and I called him last time, and today he said he knew he had nothing but property, and here I call him once again to say the name of that person because I think it's our obligation. So we think that last time he told someone to drive to Ferrari, that he knew that person, but here's the IRS not doing his job. We think that every person actually if there's any knowledge of such persons actually needs to come forward. Also, about what you were saying about the bill. So since VAT law is actually expanding, changes will take place on the 1st of July of next year are related to a total of one set of text of harmonisation and therefore this part of the account is transferred to this part of the General Tax Code as one general regulation for the content of the invoices for all activities. So he's not going in, so he's general for account content for all the activities. And that's why he's both basic and general. Also, I say there's been a lot of debate but I'd just finally get back to that point and essence and I'd like to put the ball down a little bit. The IRS is doing their job. The IRS has done their job before. Every time you do your job, you have good and bad sides, and we think what you said when you said it would come out, I don't think it's good to go out and bid on individual solutions to the source of the property and their income. We believe that this is an extremely sensitive process and that we should give the parties that are in this process to prove their origins and sources of property and we believe that, especially through the media, you have never heard from me or from the principal that she is trying to speculate through the media. There is a normal public interest in this, but we believe that these are still processes that will be seen and will have to be visible, but I say again it is not that certain laws and individual solutions are now going out in the media and solutions, but I say it is still very sensitive processes that would not make any mistakes, extremely sensitive processes, and therefore we ask you to mean from our side the Tax Administration has never invited people to the Tax Administration through the media in such a way and we believe that there should be people to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23037	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas, the first one is Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23038	Well-respected deputy. We haven't heard the basic answer, so going to the emergency procedure on Friday is a vote. I think it's a good idea for this law to be analyzed again. The intention of this law is extremely good, not to repeat it. I'm afraid the IRS, given a series of laws that some still don't even agree to say so, is with coalition partners. I just don't know if it's the IRS or the political parties on one of those laws, and I mean that property tax or real estate tax, but it's gonna have a lot of work to do. Therefore, with the identification of real estate tax until the practical examination of the origin of the property or the identification of that origin. I'm really worried about your health, I'm worried about the health of the IRS staff. And I'm not joking on the contrary, I'm serious, because the process of reconciliation is very painful, so it might happen that there might not be a consensus. But I'm not going into that policy right now. Here you are. You have invited a colleague of the Assembly to report it. And something about the State Audit. Well, I was the only one in 2000 when I became mayor in 2001 when I asked for a revision of PIC Đakovo's conversion and privatisation. The state audit has written no criminal acts, 3,000 people ended up on the street, the PIC broke down, there's a worse word, it's written that irregularities were observed, sent to the State's Attorney's office. It's the end of 2012. That's who the pit was.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23039	Thank you. Next replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23040	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm very glad you just said one sentence, the IRS is doing its job, and she's doing her job. Today we and you and we were all witnessing that on the one hand of this assembly in continuity there was an interpretation that this law is being passed precisely because the Tax Administration has not worked and has not determined who has been bailing until 2012. So that's what I want to point out, just seems like we don't understand what I'm trying to say. We can't say that these things haven't happened before and that from now on, because someone else is in charge of these same things won't happen, so the point is that these things are being detected in time and that these people are finally sanctioned the way they should be sanctioned by law. I only warn all the time that this IRS has tools to do so, just as the IRS has so far had all the tools possible to detect those who are contrary to legal regulations. But it also raises the question of who is to blame for this debt which is now recorded in the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday in our budget interpretation we heard how difficult it is for this government to charge for something that someone had never charged before, so there's a problem. Why someone didn't charge and that someone who didn't charge for it should answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23041	Thank you. This is what we're done with the agenda. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23042	Final draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 206. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. What's the score? I find that most of the votes were 89 for and 29 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23043	And we move on to - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the law on value added tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 203 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23044	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act before you. The reason for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the VAT law is a more detailed harmonisation with the provisions of Directive 2006/112/EC of 26 November 2006 on a common system of value added tax which is not required to apply a zero per cent rate to new Member States but can apply a reduced rate of value added tax not less than 5%. That law prescribes a reduced rate of 5% instead of the current rate of 0% and a reduced rate of 5% of sports and leisure vessels that are put into customs release until 31 May 2013 and which were previously under the early import procedure for their stay abroad. The analysis of the law found that the application of this law increased revenues to the state budget by around 1.3 billion kuna per year. I know there's been a lot of talk today and yesterday about this law, and I know that it's been going on in the media, and here's how we're actually not going to tell a fraud or ex-government misnegotiated this part, and that's what we're talking about today. I think that this should, however, be approached from one professional side, not a bad negotiation but simply a directive that allows you something or does not allow you. You were saying today that Great Britain, Ireland and Malta have a 0% rate and that some other countries have a lower rate. And you did wonder why they had it, because, therefore, it's not a matter of negotiation, so all the countries that have been within the European Union since 1 January 1991 actually had a reduced VAT rate, so they had a zero rate, etc., could retain and that was their option right when they entered. It means all the new members as you see the new members who entered in 2004, 2005, none of the members, meaning Article 99. The directive does not allow them to actually have the lowest rate of 5%. So it's not actually a negotiation or a non-negotiation, it's a directive, and it's actually a certain regulation that the Republic of Croatia couldn't really influence, which it was. It was an emergency but simply in the regulations they were clear in that part. I'll tell you the same thing when we talk about this part of tax policy. Present at this time of fiscal consolidation that all states in Europe, and this has been the situation since 2009 and when the economic crisis occurred in '09, '10, '11. and in the '12s, from the 27 members of the European Union 16 to 18 increased the VAT rate. I'm not saying it's some alibi for raising VAT rates, but it's just like that and some countries are like that. Romania raised from 19% to 24% of VAT. Not only did they lift the rate, the UK was 17.5, so it went to 20 later. So a large number of countries I said in 2011 and in 2012, they raised the VAT rate precisely in that part due to fiscal consolidation. Here's what Mr. Schucker said yesterday and so it was also meant from 22% to 23%, so in that part it was simply the primary, was fiscal consolidation of the state budget. I don't want this to be said here. Now it's just a fiscal consolidation of the state budget, and it's all a burden on citizens. I'd like to ask the question of how many citizens are burdened by that state budget. A lot, a lot of citizens are connected to the state budget. Will you see that it's a million and 200 thousand pensioners who get paid from the state budget, we want 250 thousand people who get paid, you want a very large number of businesses that are unfortunately working with the state. So it's just like that and it's a simple fact, so a very large number of people when you see that we're trying to do some kind of structural reform, a very large number of people are showing up that their particular rights have been compromised. So the situation is that we have the budget that we have, the situation that we have, I just want to talk in this part of it professionally, and we say that citizens who also get a certain part of the compensation, get out of it the state budget and that the stability of the economy and stability for each citizen comes from the stability of public finances. See what happens in neighboring countries, see what happens for example. in Greece when you do not have the stability of public finances as it reflects ultimately on citizens. So we've tried and we've been saying it all along we can do it ourselves, we can do it ourselves without telling some foreign regulators that we can carry out financial consolidation in that part. Large debates are also in the European Union. I told you, this whole part when you look at the tax reforms that have been going on in the European Union over the last two years, not only have they raised VAT rates, they have also raised social security contributions, they have raised contributions to personal income, etc. It's a whole one, so we are part of Europe, and in this part, it's a whole system that's trying to stabilize itself that after the stabilisation of public finances, you see what happened, that it's so intertwined that now it's not just the problem of the banking sector, it's also getting through to the problem of the risk of the state. And now you have a problem with the banking sector, you have a problem with whether the state could pay off the debt and have a bad economy. The crisis is simply pouring from one to the other and the third, ultimately, to affect the standard of citizens. But we can't raise the standard of citizens unless we stabilize public finances. And this wouldn't want to be in this part where we're saying that the IRS or that the Ministry of Finance is doing some kind of press, and that here it's just about us, god damn it, about some state budget. I... thought that vice versa, that we're saying that it's actually a matter of the state budget that we can pay social benefits, that we can pay a child's salary, that we can pay our pensions, that we can pay the teachers because unfortunately what I said, a very large number of people are on the state budget and unfortunately the state budget is let's say the biggest corporation in the state. We don't have large companies, so we also have stability of the budget through income stability. So you saw that all of our measures that were raised in this part of the VAT went countermeasure, because we know that we're out of investments and no economy. You saw when we went from 23 to 25 in that we had a certain portion of the product and dropped to 10%, you saw that in this part when we go from 0 to 5 to bring down tourism because we think all the time, we all say tourism is our biggest export branch, the best sector. What we're doing in particular, is we're doing a real VAT drop from 25 to 10%, is we're saying that hotel companies if they reinvest that they have 0%, how much more we want to encourage the economy. We encourage our strongest industrial sector, an industry in the tourism sector that employs a very large number of people. I would also like for agriculture to be linked to tourism and, in fact, to offer our products in hotel houses and to be more competitive in that part of their services, that they can actually sell their agricultural products through hotels and have 10%, to be competitive there. When we get 10 million people this summer to raise extra value and make a profit there. We chose one sector all the time and considered, we all swear on tourism because we made an extremely brave move and sensitive. We're here when we defended the budget we said there were risks both on the side of income and on the side of expenditure. We said there were, we said it wasn't a holy letter and we said it was a difficult situation. But you can see that we're trying, but that's why I'm saying that you can see that all the measures that we're going in this section that we're trying to go with the countermeasures. So as long as we don't raise our economies, we're giving everything through the share of consolidation that we said we'd both write off and enter the consolidation of these companies... a day without economy can't have long-term, we can't have long-term stability of the budget without the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this part that we said that the increase in VAT would not, looking in this context means stability of public finances to all of us in the interest. This is a national interest in the stability of public finances. You see what kind of debates are going on out there. So I would like to have this consensus that the stability of the state, the stability of the yield, the stability of the ratings, are the stability of all of this, so that we can actually encourage the economy later and that we can ensure that everyone who is on the budget gets their income. So we're in extremely difficult times. But we say no matter what we think, and we think that we will succeed and move in the right direction as hard as it is. Believe me, it is not much easier in other EU countries where it should be explained that it is going to a certain part of the savings. Simply, but we think that these measures must and will show, that they will show the effect of what we said in the first part of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23045	Thank you, Deputy Minister. We have four replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23046	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23047	Just an interpretation. So you can replicate the exposure. You've picked up a plate before the deputy minister started his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23048	I know what the Deputy Minister will say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23050	This is pretty, you're gonna give me a little longer. This was quite a speech, so I would even tell Lalovec about the prime minister. But I'll be back in time. He's a roarer of heaven. There's this page shouting when Schucker explained the first raise of VAT in the same way. We need to tie this up, we need to tie it up, we need to tie this up, we need to tie it up. The dream of every government, every government, when it brings a certain tax burden to its citizens to somehow try to seduce them, so that they're drugged and say it's good for us. They're not retired people, are they? Well, they created this country. They're not the defense attorney's burden on this budget, are they? They created the same thing. So we can't talk about citizens being a burden to the budget and don't use it anymore. But the point of this is, is, we had a bad negotiation with the EU, we were a bad opposition back then while someone was negotiating. We didn't have a debate here. We had a National Monitoring Committee on Negotiations. Who was talking about negotiations with the EU? Nobody! When she tried to open that debate, we all kept our mouths shut. But I'm going back to applying this law. It's clear to me that this has to be done, but it's a matter of our ability to negotiate. What are we introducing to him? Why not introduce it on the day of its entry, on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to EU membership? Well, that's in the signed contract between Croatia and the EU. What does a vessel mix with this liter of milk or with this kilo of bread? What? Now that's the basic question. And we can't say we won't fill the state budget with that. We will, we will. 5% more funding is more revenue in the budget by 2.3 billion kuna and we take it from the citizens and that's the only fact right now. Because if it hadn't then they would have put Croatia into EU membership on the date of Croatia's accession it would have been 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23051	Thank you. We also have a reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23052	I'm sorry that... I say we have to put up public finances because the payments are from the budget for a certain category of people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what I was telling you that stability of the state budget for the overall stability of the economic environment is a priority. That's what I'm talking about. About this part, we mix boats with bread and milk. So we're talking about this part of the part that today was taxed by 25% and that we don't want them to go to neighboring countries, we don't want them to go to neighboring countries, to go to Montenegro, etc. And we offer that it's an economic character, that we bring them in, that we have long-term benefits. So we went with a temporary measure actually to attract them, to have the entire state benefit from, to have, to register those vessels with us. So that's what I've been talking about all along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23053	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23054	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Assistants. I'm not going to talk about what others are likely to talk about affecting the standard of citizens and everything by themselves. But what surprised me very much, which is that we sat here until almost midnight yesterday and discussed the state budget. And today we're discussing a law that introduces 5% VAT on drugs. When we look at the health budget, then 273 million kunas fell in that budget, I stress the reduced spending on prescription medicines. If you calculate from that remaining money what 5% is, that's about 160 million kuna. So, em is reducing the resources that are intended for medicines and it's drastically going to take down actually 160 million kunas. As for other medicines given in hospitals, the hospital's budget decreased by about thirty percent, slightly less than 29% compared to last year's 2 billion 631 kuna. And now that you look at it again, one part of it, this moment is hard for me to calculate how much, but one decent part of it is going to be VAT again. Nowhere in the budget, there's no indication of what's going to happen to all that together. And how will the problem of health that the team will be burdened with significant donations be solved. Here you saw 160 million just on prescription drugs, not talking about huge hospital costs, and what's going to happen? Let's not say that health care will remain the same, it will be more important and patients will receive fewer medications because it is clear about this less money. It's only clear what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23055	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, you've said nicely that agriculture should be connected to tourism. I absolutely agree with that and I think it's the best model of how to sell agricultural products and the balance sheet that we talked about yesterday was to just balance it out. But what I'm saying is, that's impossible because you said you were taking countermeasures. Let's say some countermeasures in tourism. And what was done in agriculture? And what are the countermeasures if two years out of 40% if we count now in 2013 agriculture loses? Well, it's such a radical change that no one can adapt there. And what's going to happen? Agriculture won't survive at all. She's so in a catastrophic state right now and she's falling apart. And I think of today's and the debate that follows these aids, changes in support, so that's the same thing in the Law on support for certain non-serious access to agriculture. Now we get a slap from the EU so some things aren't well done and it just spins that agriculture into a vicious circle that I just... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23057	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister and Director. Well, here I am going to look back at my part of the replica of tourism. Namely, here are the latest figures that we have this year 7 billion seems to me that 7 billion euros is total traffic achieved through tourism. It's taken somewhere that 15% of it is to spend on food and drink. So we can count on it to be about a billion and 50 million. Well, that food and drink certainly includes the placement of our domestic product and the placement of our domestic producers, and we can say through that agriculture is indeed the most vital part of the Croatian economy, but we can also say that this way agriculture is part of the export of agricultural products and that it crosses even the borders. So here's why I wanted to say how important it is that we think in reality about this agriculture as the most vital branch, so when we see taxes coming down here, I believe that you've done it in good faith to cut those taxes on yachts and all that, but I don't know why you haven't thought about these 15% of food, drinks and everything that's through agriculture, so you've found in the budget an increase in these agricultural aids and incentives to further stimulate domestic agricultural production, especially objects that have been registered and that have been prepared for the competition during these years and that you can legally and legitimately go to the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23059	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23060	I appreciate the question. Look, it means about that part of who's happier than the minister said we could cut down on a certain product item. You saw yesterday about the deficit that we are actually trying to keep it in a certain part under control and I said today, the prime minister and minister said yesterday there are certain risks to income and expenditure. So there is, that's what we've told you openly. So we in this part where we go by reducing VAT to tourism and there's also a certain part of the risk that the budget won't actually be charged in that part. We're aware of that, but we're trying to mean that in these conditions that we're now going countermeasures and that we've gone with a strong one countermeasure to stimulate consumption and our strongest sector. That's our personal opinion. Could we have done more? Here's what we expected you to tell us in that part of the expenditure where you cut even more at the expense, where you cut even more so that we can release some of the VAT and agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23061	Thank you, too. We're going through a club debate. On behalf of the club... I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. The Board of Tourism, right, colleague Beus? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, Madam Assistant and Director. On behalf of the Committee on Tourism who discussed this topic as an interested working body, I must first of all show high level of satisfaction and praise to the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration for showing an extremely high level of understanding and willingness to consider all those tax, fiscal obstacles that stand in the way of the development of Croatian tourism. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Tourism held on 28 April this year an extremely important thematic session on which over 120 of the most important actors for the development of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia participated and that the Committee on Tourism then catalogued 15 key problems for the development of nautical tourism and the non-competitiveness of the existing fiscal, tax system in the Republic of Croatia for the development of nautical tourism is particularly apostrophe and was then advised to the Ministry of Finance specifically and the Tax and Customs Administration to consider this situation because the entry into the EU on 1 July of the following year is an extremely short period and that it must be possible to take advantage of this time to achieve the comparative advantages that foreign vessel owners would actually attract their vessels to register in Croatia, to pay both taxes and customs in Croatia. The proposer of this law at a committee meeting explained that the Ministry of Finance has made valid analyses showing that the existing rate of 25% is extremely uncompetitive or that it is such a character that it does not guarantee absolutely any benefits for Croatian nautical tourism and that it is true that other countries have a much more competitive approach in this regard and that it is also true that after 1st meeting next year, if things do not change, all those vessels that are currently on the link in the Republic of Croatia will be registered for a permanent and paid customs and tax or value added tax in their country of origin, and when it comes to citizens of those non-EU countries, then it shows that Montenegro's destination as the most attractive. In this sense, the Ministry of Finance proposed and brought before us a solution which, from 1 January to 31 May, allows all vessels in the regime of temporary imports into the Republic of Croatia to be registered in the Croatian register and with our port captains, or in Croatia, in a way that pays tax and customs duties here. We expect that about 10,000 boat owners who are currently on the link in Croatian marinas or all nautical ports, but also interested sailors who are very closely following what is happening in Croatia before entering the EU will be interested in this news and will try to use it for their own benefit, of course. Because what's their alternative? The alternative is to pay 19% in Germany or in some other countries of some other VAT rate and to keep that money there without us seeing anything because of the 1.7 EU citizens will be able to normally tie their ships permanently to us. Therefore, this is a chance that the Committee on Tourism welcomes, assesses good but warns about reducing the VAT rate from 25 to the lowest possible and this is 5% not at this time the only thing affecting competitiveness and which will allow for a greater number of applications, i.e. permanent imports and payments of VAT and customs. Namely, this follows a procedure that also includes the printout from the home registers of ships that are sometimes complicated and long-term, without a printout it is not possible to translate the ship into our register. On the other hand, we warn that unlike the Croatian register of port captainships, ships are not teamed up enough and that in this sense they will need additional efforts to carry out all the administrative procedures necessary. On the third hand, we also warn that Croatia has two rates of customs duties that are quite detimulative in competition with what is in the EU. In contrast to the European directive, which defined 2.7 and 1.7%, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23063	My friend Beus, I'm sorry. You've made me a little confused. You speak for the board? It says you can't discuss it on behalf of the board. ... I'm asking you to give the board your conclusions because you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23064	Excuse me. I'll cut it short. Therefore, with the first conclusion that it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt laws amending and supplementing the Value Added Taxation Act, the Committee for Tourism recommends the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Tourism to establish, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, inter-resorship coordination and consultation in order to ensure timely preparation of this law, or to clearly determine and define the procedure for the release into free circulation of vessels in the regime of temporary imports. I apologize, but since the guards have not yet shared the committee's views in this regard, they should have extensively explained why the committee is proposing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23065	Thank you. We had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23066	Mr. Vice President. Well precisely because Mr. Richembergh explained and went into the debate about this law did not state the position I wanted to replicate, and you told me that I couldn't replicate because the Rules of Procedure was not foreseen. So I believe that Article 211 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured in which a representative cannot only replicate the President when he receives a warning. Nowhere does it say regrettable if it has been a practice so far anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that it can't be replicated by a representative when speaking on behalf of the board. So I put up a tile myself to replicate Mr. Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23067	Okay. The practice so far has been that it has not been replicated to the report and to the committee's rapporteurs. But also the committee rapporteurs I can understand fellow Beuss since we didn't get on the bench report board that he wanted to introduce us to everything, but I hope there won't be any practice. My colleague Bačić, you were right about the injured Rules of Procedure, but I also understand why he wanted to introduce us to the debate that was on the board. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Vice-President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In this first year of office, we are most often discussing tax legislation here, so in this set of laws, we also have this bill on amending and supplementing the law on value added tax. It's been said here already in previous debates, everything just goes on the burden of the citizens. Taxes always pay citizens, whether they pay them through their incomes, through consumption tax, or whether they pay as taxpayers through the profit they earn through their capital. So that tax is always paid by citizens because the state actually redeploys part of social GDP through taxes through the state budget so that it can meet general social needs. So if we analyze this budget that was now in our debate, when we balance what it was said by the deputy minister who is moving towards citizens, out of wages, pensions, other transfers to citizens, then the total at this point 68% of the budget ends up back in different forms with our citizens. But when we're talking about VAT, I'd only go through a few sentences, so she came back at the time when that law was passed. It was brought in in '95. year, and date 1.1.1998. The first year of VAT administration has brought huge revenues to the state budget that could not even be planned. We were then in the Parliament during the first time and the only way so far we had huge opportunities to rebalance the budget because we did not exceed the expenditure side but had high incomes just from VAT revenues. As I remember now 7 or 8 billion kunas, 8 billion kunas have increased budget revenues in '98. A year. Unfortunately, as they used the rebalancing process, there is no point in talking about it, but it should be said that since then the state budget has been raised precisely thanks to this high consumption tax. The rate was unique, 22%. There were several amendments or quite a few amendments to the VAT Act, mostly during one period reduced rates were introduced and, among other things, zero rates for certain products and services, in order to go to an increase in the basic rate during the crisis. It should be said that the first increase from 22% to 23% was indeed due to an increase in expenditure. Some other tax obligations were also increased, but this latest increase from 23% to 25% also followed a decrease in certain revenues. The largest amount was there through a reduction in the contribution rate for health insurance. But since 2010, we have been a little bit in line with the VAT law with the European directives, and I will just repeat here, I agree, it really has nothing to do with the negotiations, but it has to do with the European legislation that was regulated first by Directive 2006/112, which regulates the entire VAT matter. In Article 96, which we are now harmonising with, and this would indeed be the final harmonisation as regards Directive 112 of 2006 which sets out in its Article 96 the standard VAT rate which is said to be the percentage of the taxable amount and must be equal for the delivery of goods and services. It shall be established for the period from 1.1.2006 to 31.12.2010 and a rate of 15% of VAT shall be determined as the lowest standard rate. So this is what all the members who have later become members of the European Union must respect. These exceptions exist in this Directive for individual countries, and they are explicitly listed through the articles of the Directive. The directive allows for the first time and a reduced VAT rate, so there is a possibility that countries can introduce two, no more than two VAT rates that cannot be less than 5%, so a rate of 0.1.2.3 or 4% cannot be as a reduced rate, so two rates can be introduced. We already have a lower VAT rate of 10% and we had that rate of 0% that we are now increasing to that lowest rate established by Directive 112 to 5%. I will just briefly remind, so far we have had untaxable bread and milk, books of professional, scientific, artistic, cultural, educational, textbooks and medicines from the list of HZZO, products used and installed in human body, medical products to compensate for physical damage or deficiency, scientific journals and public screening services. It is true that such goods and services will now be 5% more expensive, especially in terms of bread and milk which are the daily need of citizens and it is almost certain that traders will take advantage of this possibility not to the expense of their margins but to actually raise the price of these products. However, in 2012, a range of products and services with a VAT rate of 10% has been expanded, and it is now applied to oils and fats, sugar, baby food, water delivery, other than water sold in packaging, and since 1.1.2013, a 10% VAT rate of 10% will be applied to food preparation and food services in catering facilities, as well as the preparation and use of non-alcoholic beverages, beverages, wine and beer in such facilities. Since we already have the opportunity to apply a 10% rate to organised accommodation in tourism, this should be a major incentive for more tourism consumption. Not only will this bring the effect of reduced VAT rates from 25% in this year to 10% in the following year, but it should be borne in mind that the pre-tax is higher in the catering sector than it was now compared to the tax which will be charged on its final product or service, because it will account for 10% on its final product or service and pre-tax will mainly be between 5, 10 and most of it 25%. Also, this is also said through the Report of the Committee on Tourism by 31.5, so it seems to me that that is enough for a period of nearly 6 months 5% of VAT will also be accounted for on sports and leisure vessels which are placed in the customs procedure for free circulation. These vessels are in temporary import mode. So far, neither VAT nor customs has been paid to them. And if such a situation arises, it should be stimulated to keep them on the link in Croatia and that the Croatian state charges during that period when it can still charge customs duties in its budget and customs and such a reduced rate of value added tax. Finally, after a full set of tax laws, a fiscal transaction law and before a bankruptcy settlement, the law on fiscal consolidation has been completed, at least in this normative sense, and should now be applied in practice and in some way make all taxpayers orderly comply with their obligations, that the commitments they have been reprogrammed or through a bankruptcy settlement are regulated and that we avoid that unfair competition which often exists among entrepreneurs who, while one is paying taxes, avoid such an obligation. The SDP Club will accept amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23069	Thank you. We have one replica, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is Madam Vice President Zgrebec, who said that a measure that will establish a 5% VAT rate by 31 May for vessels that are on temporary imports, in the procedure of temporary imports into the Republic of Croatia, should stimulate the owners of those vessels to enroll in the Croatian register. It's only partially accurate, Mrs. Zgrebec. Before I tell you that in Croatia there are about 20% of the total number of vessels in the Republic of Croatia in the summer, some 10,000 to 11,000 vessels are estimated when I was in the ministry to talk about them. Therefore, it is estimated at around 200 to 250 million kunas should collect VAT based on this VAT rate. But this isn't enough. There is a deputy minister, and if it just fits on this scale, I'm afraid we'll stimulate the owners of the vessel to keep the vessels in the Croatian register. In addition to this measure, the Ministry of Finance should also prescribe the Customs Tariff Regulation, as the customs tariff when entering these vessels is one of the highest, if not the highest across the EU, and about 10 times higher than our neighbouring countries, which are also engaged in nautical tourism. So, it would be good if the Government, in parallel with the amendment of this Act, changed the Customs Tariff Regulation, where this rate that seems to me to be 8 or 12% depends on the value of the vessel would be reduced somewhere to the rate in Slovenia, and in Slovenia it seems to be about 1.7 or 1.8%. Therefore, it is only then that we can speak of it as a stimulating measure. Otherwise, it should be noted that, in a certain way, such a measure will bring inequality because at the same time as Croatian citizens buy vessels, they will pay 25%, and that foreigners who have vessels under a foreign flag will pay 5 times smaller VAT in the temporary registration procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23071	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23072	So in this context, I've only talked about it, I've only talked about it in the context of the law on value added tax, because that's what we're discussing right now. It's good for you to see this other part of customs. However, the owner of such a vessel will always look to the total, or total obligation to pay. And if his customs plus VAT is more favourable in Croatia, he will stay in Croatia, if he does not stay. And your suggestion to the ministry, I think it's good and they'll think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23073	Thank you, too. We're moving on to clubs. On behalf of HNS Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats will support the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Value Added Tax. HNS comes from the fact that tourism is one of the most important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia. The latest data suggests that tourism in GDP is participating with as much as 14 and a half percent. On the one hand, that's good news, on the other hand, bad news. It is good enough that it testifies to flexibility, strength, also internally, about the strength of internal adaptation, the market conditions of the industry sector itself and tourism in Croatia. It means that there have been significantly greater shifts than those we've recorded in recent years, but on the other hand, that share has been said and that all other sectors have particularly industrially actually atrophed. It is not good to give all the tickets in any country on any industrial branch, and it is not good for us if tourism is, becomes or remains a dominant economic branch. Because he's very fragile, he's very sensitive to everything, to all the events in the neighborhood not only with us and he depends on a whole series of external factors so that a lot of efforts, huge human efforts, creativity, innovation in tourism can come into question from the most banal things that concern, let's say, the safety of people so that the whole season has a lot of damage. When we talk about the total tourism sector, the nautical sector in Croatia generates around 8, between 8 and 9% of total tourism revenues. It is a large segment and Croatia as a maritious country must certainly think about the possibilities, the strategic direction of development of these segments, especially where it has conditions, where it has comparative advantages, where it has unused space and where there is, of course, demand for this type of tourist offer. Nautical tourism is developing in Croatia we would have said in the last 30 years, but for a whole series of reasons, it has experienced ups and downs, and unfortunately one strategic document that the Republic of Croatia adopted 2.5 years ago almost not being implemented at all, and this is the Strategy for the Development of Nautical Tourism. There were clearly indicated goals of some kind of reaching, measurable size that should be achieved in order for Croatian tourism to benefit even more from nauticalism and from the capacities it has available, but not much has been done. In this sense, the HNS points out that there are a number of obstacles to the development of nautical tourism which is relatively easy to remove if it is responsible people who make decisions and in this sense we plead to all those who sit in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Tourism who do not fully illogically cover the nautical sector at all and who are not responsible for what needs to be changed urgently, but also in the Ministry of Finance, so the most responsible ministries when it comes to the environment and technical conditions in which nautical tourism is developed. Therefore, all these ministries are well-promoting the existing situation and the joint joint joint inter-resorship deliver and propose measures to address these difficulties. As is known in the Republic of Croatia between 10 and 11 thousand vessels are held by persons holding those vessels in temporary status, therefore in the status of temporary imports and the Croatian State budget does not benefit. As you know or do not know but should say every bond in Croatian marinas believe or do not generate at least one job. These are not only people who work in marinas, they are people who work in the entire logistics sector who serve them from all possible services offered to boat owners to maintain what they have and to all those who provide additional services. So it's a very important sector where I repeat one link generates one job. Croatia has set its own goals. Croatia is still bringing up, that is, in the final preparation of the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy, mentioning nautical tourism as one of the most important segments in which much more can be done and when it comes to the number of new marinas, the enlargement of marinas, and when it comes to increasing the number of berths. It is therefore very important that the Ministry of Finance has already taken several steps this year to facilitate the conditions in which nautical tourism is developing. I will mention only the famous excise duty that we lifted a few months ago, two months ago, which finally came after seven years of begging small shipbuilders was abolished, and in the meantime it is estimated that about a thousand and a half jobs were lost in shipyards and about a thousand other jobs in the accompanying services. The measure did not receive the expected results but only short-term revenues to the state budget, and in the long term it caused major damage and it is good that the ministry finally changed this and that a whole new environment is now being created. This is one of the questions, as you can see, is one of the shortest laws ever passed in this term of boredom. The point is that only in Article 10(1), point 0 is replaced by the number 5, i.e. the point is deleted and the point is added, a new point h is added. which defines that vessels for sport and entertainment that are placed in the customs procedure of release for free circulation until 31 May, so for a full period of 5 months would be taxed at a VAT rate of 5%. This is the lowest possible, lowest allowable VAT rate in the EU at least as far as we new members are concerned, and this is a stimulating measure that should ensure, above all, that all EU sailors, or foreigners who have their own vessels in Croatia, are more closely bound by our marinas and provide more quality and sustainable incomes in the long term, i.e. it is not just about VAT charges, it is not just about customs charges, it is not just about charging registration fees, it is about the fact that these people regularly come to the Republic of Croatia, that they regularly pay for the maintenance of their vessels. So, regular income to the local community, which is very, very important here. So it's about ships that are already on the line, and there's now an opportunity to be or not be, whether we take advantage of that opportunity that's being offered and caught... a plug or we watch and we don't do anything to just welcome all that money that's coming from value added tax and customs goes somewhere else. We think that we should go to the Croatian state budget, among other things, because we are the ones who care about the ecologicality of the Adriatic, which is us who care about the environment in which tourism and nautical tourism is happening. Croatia's 100th title should also be fought for that part of its income. On the other hand, Bačić is right when he warns that the existing customs rates according to the tariff model that has been in force so far are actually detimulative. Namely, if the vessel originates from the EU but has no evidence that the preferential Eu origin of customs duties is 8% or 12% alike if the vessel is not originating in the EU, then we may be in an absurd situation that the same type of vessel in the same producer may be released by customs on one basis and not by the other. Only because there is no certificate of primary source although everyone knows where the vessel is produced, which is the model and who is the manufacturer. On the other hand, we need to know that these two different customs rates are not in terms of size, but the rowboats and canoes, therefore, for entertainment and sport, the inflatable vessels are 12%, and the sailboats and motorists are 8%. Currently, the European Directive 1006/2011 provides for customs rates of 2.7 and 1.7 for those same vessels. Why in our decision on the tariff system amounts that are up to 10 times larger, we certainly need to consider that question because it does not happen to us that we have made it easier on the one hand and that on the other hand we continue to hold an too high bar that is difficult to compete with neighbors with what they offer to skip. Croatian nautical tourism is at a turning point or the state will clearly and loudly state the conditions that allow its further development or will continue to stagnate. In this sense, it is good that the state said it will not sell ACI is good that it is in search of the new management of Croatia's largest chain of marinas and it is good to expect that the ACI is a quality, strong, long-term strategic plan that could draw the rest of the competition and all other marinas in the Republic of Croatia. But here we remind ourselves that the application of this law will be much, much easier and much simpler if, by now, during December and the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Administration and the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Liaison, consultations and preparatory meetings will begin immediately in order to bring down cracks about the application of this law to reduce administrative barriers in order to allow the technical inspection of all vessels to be prepared in time. We remind you that every year there are about 4,000 charters of vessels in the first part of the year for a special examination. So that's what's gonna have to be done this year. if we add to that another 10,000 vessels that are likely to be able to pass through this review to make this tax relief, then we know that it is a large number and existing capacity, therefore, of human resources, which are in the possession of people who are responsible for the review can, in that sense, fail to schedule unless there is no time to begin unless the time is well planned and this transitional or provisional regime is used until 31st of May is maximum. So I repeat, the HNS Club welcomes this effort and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23075	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Goran introduced me as well as all of us to boats with sports recreational boats with nautical tourism and was taught what we heard. I really didn't know anything about it. I've never been on such a boat and I don't do very recreational sailing and sport like that. Unfortunately, we have heard nothing from the CNS about the fact that citizens will not need it for 6 months because the EU does not require us to pay more expensive bread, milk and medicines until we enter the country. Yesterday I was at the pharmacy, the pharmacy already applied, I don't know how, I don't know how, but there's some pharmacies already using that VAT and really the drugs are more expensive for something kuna than I bought last week. You protected last week or it was last week anyway, citizens from real estate taxes. They were placed in principle and as lions stood in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia not to skin them for the second, third, fifth and seventh real estate, now is not the time to introduce that tax. So, in principle, you stand in defense of the interests of the citizens. Today you generally advocate nautical tourism. What citizens of the Republic of Croatia are they protecting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23077	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague, Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23078	My colleague Vuljanić, I understand your need to open a subject through replica that has nothing to do with this, but also understand my need not to go to your hand and not to stick to your grandmother. Namely, when the HNS Club takes its stand, exactly, they will defend it lionically until the end of the day until the conditions for something else are met. In this particular case, the reduction in VAT from 25% to 5% for vessels currently under the temporary import regime has absolutely nothing to do with how other VAT rates are applied in accordance with European directives and what has been negotiated in the negotiation process, and then neither with milk nor bread nor with all other things. At this time, we are talking about the extent to which Croatia's state budget from the pockets of foreigners will make huge revenues. So this is not about any new burden on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but even more about the income of funds that will ease the fiscal burden of this hour on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23079	Thank you, too. And the next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23080	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Richembergh spoke nicely about nautical tourism and perhaps I wouldn't have anything to add, I'll say more in the debate, but now we see the impact or the way we discussed the state budget yesterday. We enter the division of the Ministry of the Sea, the port captains of the Adriatic have 15 million kuna available, port captains and internal water system means Danube, Sava River, etc. They have 35 million kunas at their disposal. It's like all our fleets are actually in the inner waters. But that's not a problem, I'm glad they have one there. The problem is that we have a system of eight major port captains and 72 outposts of which three big ones don't have a port captain at all because they've retired, senior captains, and 72 of them have no employees at all, but are seasonally employed on contracts of action. And now we have the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, there is no new employment, and there is a system between 60 and 80 port captains or people who will work inside means that they can do these jobs because we have heard 4,000 views of only charter ships on the link plus possible 10,000 new boats, and they have to solve it for boats, and the Croatian register solves for yachts. There's a question of what capacity we're going to deal with, and that's what we're talking about. He doesn't know what he's doing on the right, and the budget is in the debate, and it's possible to fix it, to secure funds for the salaries of the employees he doesn't have. They are smaller in this year planned compared to last year, which means there is no employment, there will be work contracts again, etc. The question arises how, then, the good will of the Ministry of Finance to carry out the second ministry in the same government, which is the Ministry of the Sea through the system of port captains means. It's something we don't see through a bill like this, and that's going to be a problem in the fourth month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23081	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23082	Comrade Boric, you're definitely right. It's true what you're saying. The system of port captains is now unprepared, humanely unprepared to do his job even on a regular basis, let alone what awaits them. We've had opportunities together today to hear one grade that isn't great, and that's that the port captains in a large number of cases have to deal with jobs that are all just not their real work, primarily a huge administration, not the establishment of the security of navigation in the area for which they're responsible. And it is not good to measure restrictions in the employment of people who do not create a new value, so in the administration which is only a burden, which we really do really have in the Croatian administration and those who are in those places that bring income to the state budget by doing our job. The port captains are certainly among those who earn their salary and are not burdened by the state budget as some others, creating that value, and it is definitely clear that they should have another archaic. Obviously, there should be a little better coordination between the two ministries, but let's not because something that may not have been well done is now being questioned by the measure that is going in that direction. Let it also be an incentive to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Development and the Ministry of Finance to find out whether redistribution, whether in some other way possible solutions will finance such an important thing as the teaming of port captains. It is in everyone's interest to have order and to establish safety in sailing in Croatian territorial waters, not to create chaos, to create plugs, to lose this opportunity that we are told. If we lose one single boat that could be taxed and give income to the state budget just because someone hasn't arrived physically, it's a shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23083	Thank you. We're moving on to the MPs' clubs. On behalf of the IDS club Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23084	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance, gentlemen of the Parliament. This boat thing clearly that's okay, but what's the point of this law? This is Article 5, i.e. VAT is paid at a rate of 0%, now 5%, all kinds of bread, all kinds of milk, books, medicines, scientific journals, but on the other hand VAT is now paid at a rate of 10% on accommodation or accommodation services with breakfast, half board or full board in all types of commercial catering facilities, food preparation services and provision of food services in catering facilities. This will say all the inn or oysters as we would say from Buzet to Opatija, Pula, to Vinkovac, Djakova, etc., so services can simply be reduced by at least 10 percent and this should be sent to them as a call. We all know the same thing sitting here in this house that this zero rate just has to be replaced. It's not like nobody knows a zero rate anywhere but nobody knows a zero VAT rate. It is one Croatian innovation. I remember that we are somewhere in this assembly, whether it was 2006 or 2007, and the VAT came into force in 2008 so that the sixth or seventh Mr. Lutmberger and I proposed the VAT Act parallel to that of Shkegrin or Vladina, but in a way that the overall rate is 22%, that the tourist rate be 11%, that VAT on food is 5%. Maybe if it was introduced at that moment, maybe it would save the country. That would be much less public spending. It was true that Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec noticed that in 2008, we simply didn't know how to share some in '98. Yeah, those 8 billion kunas. In the end, it was divided by some party criteria. But it was simply such a blow I would say to the fiscal stability of the state that had simply disrupted those relations until today. Today we are kind of going back to that European standard. There's no zero rate almost anywhere in Europe. What we've been doing so far is just as absurd. For example, here we pay in Istria, not really us, but we pay the full price on the Istrian Ipsilon, and they're free of VAT entirely. Where's that? It seems the same to me, in Croatia there is, and it seems to me that it is also for this share of Macelj up towards the Slovenian border. Don't they pay VAT, too? What? ... And according to Macel, fine. [[You can't hear it.]] All right, let's keep it that way. It's all defined by some international contracts, but let's make investments. Most of what I'm interested in is investment in Istria. Bouygues is okay. a company, a company that employs or gives jobs to Istrian other companies, i.e. companies from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I respect, I support everything they do. But let's just get them started as soon as possible and get people back to work. I said about yesterday, which is why I mention that in 2013 in Istria we should have somewhere between 700 million kuna and 1 billion kuna investments more than in 2012. No one will influence this in the County of Istria or Jakovcic. That's what the other one will provide, and I guarantee it. Don't argue with the government. The VAT we all know is the highest tax. 37 billion kunas for this year out of a total of 67 billion kuna. How much? 40 already this year out of a total of 67 billion kuna tax revenues. That's where my insides are hidden from the tax on goods and services, which is 56.9 billion kuna. So 40 billion kuna. Okay. Clearly, the sustainability of the state budget depends on that tax. Unfortunately, we had some growth based on imports when Europe fell into depression to express myself so Croatia fell into stagnation. What would be good is that VAT even though it is a question of how much more realistically higher and the survival of Croatian finances on food is lower than in Italy, Austria, Germany, I don't know where else. When we talk about Istria, when we talk about this extra billion kuna more investment than in 2012, I mean the general hospital, I mean the ipilon, I mean tourism, I mean the continuation of cca investment 500 million kuna in road construction, HEP, water, I mean European funds. If this happens in 2013 then in 2014 private investments will certainly be encouraged, too, I am sure. The citizens themselves will go to invest. They can do it. We can get something from the outside, but without building it ourselves, without investing, there's no help. A clear budget should be decentralised, part of the mandate should be transferred. We heard this morning it's a job for two, three years. It's gonna happen. No lawsuits, no ignoring, no politicizing, no radicalization, no threats, no nicknames. Once again, I'm going to say VAT is the highest tax. As tourism is now reduced by 10%, God forbid one day it is reduced to, say, textiles. The hospitality is important. Someone earlier said that hospitality, tourism, I don't know how to express myself in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia participates with about 15 to 17%. That's about 50 billion kuna a year. The seven billion that someone mentioned. Textile is something that could also help Croatia, and I dare say ten times in a worse position than tourism. Who's going to profit from that 10% in tourism? First of all, they'll profit from large systems. They were more or less, all mainly there in the 1990s got for nothing through the form of coupon privatisation, through the form of revaluation, and previously paid loans through conversion, etc. I'd be happier if there was a conversion review than that 10% VAT. But okay, let's make it 10%. It's a big deal, it's a strategic thing for Croatian tourism. However, it should be made clear to them that it is theirs to invest. For example, they used so - called 20 years. The tourist land, they didn't pay anything, let them invest, let them just not enter even though it's an investment in the renovation of the hotel, let them start building hotels because it's among other things and a sign that people in that area will get hired. That's the point. This year, we have in some ways begun to solve tourist land. This means that they can finally, after 20 years, not get away with it, but start building. When talking about this 10% VAT on catering or hotel services, it should be remembered that this will concern not only the sea, not only one Poreč, Opatija, Dubrovnik, Zadar, but also the continent. So in the whole state, everyone's gonna benefit from that reduced VAT. And those in Đakov, and they do not matter now in Zagreb, and those who are Vukovar, Vinkovci or elsewhere. And accommodation and services all go down to 10% for those 15% points. It can be good, it'll be good for sure though once again I'm apostropheing that textile maybe one day it'll come to their turn. Food must be important, food is important, and we'll see if something happens here eventually. When I talk about this tourism, surely the greatest benefits will be Istria. Istria is about 30% of Croatian tourism. But again inside Istria the greatest benefit will be those who are the biggest, Riviera, Laguna, Maistra or TDR do not matter not to talk about individuals, Arenaturist, Istria tourist, Anita, Rabac, ok boys... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not advertised, let them benefit, but let them invest, let them build new hotels, let them build new apartments simply. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what they have to be told. And let them have it. I know the state can't command them anything, but the state can negotiate with them and they can't experience the state or I don't know the local authorities as small of the animal, but as one equal partner. We simply need what is most needed at this point is investment. In one Istria, which is 30% or 35%, don't catch me by the word of Croatian tourism, so in the last 20 years or 22 years ok, there was a war, there were 7 new hotels built somewhere. Whether it's 7, 8 or 6 don't take my word for it, somewhere. In the '90s, they got everything for nothing, so they got something back to the ones they got it from. I wish the food was all 10%, we all know here that the poor thing is the one that fills the budget, that the poor one who always gets out of the recession, the poor one is the only one who in some way has an understanding for that country, but if we go to the big one, at least let them invest, and at least tomorrow why not let them have more. The zero VAT rate should be clearly abolished. No one knows her. Now we can bid 1.01 or 1.07, we can bid. But with 25% of the VAT, we've burdened the citizens, and then let's at least let the most powerful ones get something through the investments back to the citizens. And as much as I don't know, this law should absolutely be supported. When I talk about those 5% per milk, on bread, etc., we must bear in mind that this is still a lower VAT rate on these products than it is in one Slovenia, but what is in Montenegro, but in BiH, Serbia, Italy, I speak to Hungary in these neighbouring countries, and these products will certainly not go any way beyond any other food products that are significantly cheaper in Italy, I am talking about the Istrians who are going to Italy or Slovenia to buy it. So far, we have the right to that return of IVA or the Italian VAT, tomorrow since 1/07 more so that maybe the entire store will be something more competitive than it is right now. All in all, the law needs to be supported, and no matter how many reserves I had this morning, not to tell you what was happening to me, around that General Tax Act, no matter how it goes, I'll raise both my hands to that law and see how some individuals came to 4, 5, 6 or I don't know how many houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23085	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I think in this House we need to clear up a few things about about 10% of VAT on tourism. 10% for accommodation, half board and full board has been introduced since 1.01.2006. Therefore, we here speak as if VAT is now being reduced for tourism. Now the VAT is reduced to 10%, you don't need to read Damira, you read what you're paid 10%, but this is from 1.01.2006 accommodation, half board and full pension in 1.01.2006. ... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The same thing that's been going on since 1.01.2006. Now an import rate of 10% is imported exclusively to catering services. Now there's only one question to ask... But there's a big difference. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Take a look at the traffic in Croatian tourism from accommodation, half board and full board, and how much of the catering services. The other thing, it's one big contradiction. On the one hand, we're talking about how the caterers stole a lot of money and they need to be introduced with a fiscal cash register, and on the other hand, we're putting the VAT down to help them because they can't work. So let's decide whether they're dishonest thieves or really need help as one of the main branches in tourism. Well, we can't talk today when we like them being thieves, we don't report them, like, like that, and the other days we bring down the VAT rate from 15 to 10%. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23087	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23088	Okay, but no matter what, this preparation of food, drinks, etc. It goes to 10%, and it just needs to be admitted. It's not easy for them, it's not easy for them, it's easy for the caterers. If it were good for us, we might be a little better off than some others, but if it was good for the citizens, they'd probably be as good as in some better times going to the Ostari, so it'd be good for everyone. But no matter what Shuker I think this law, that this detail should simply be supported. And that everyone in Croatia from this down in Poreč, over what I've done in Buzet and all the way up to Djakova, will simply benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23089	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23090	Here I want to replicate to my distinguished colleague Caina in the same or similar way, because at one point he said that he is now just lowering the tax on accommodation and on tourism services to 10% of the previous 25, which is what his colleague, Schooker, has already explained nicely. It may be best to say that we will now have 10% of the taxes on beer and wine, but the question is, and you have explained well who will benefit from it, you have said one hotel house, the other, etc., but the question is whether the user or citizen is benefiting from it, will that coffee, beer, wine be cheaper because the tax is 15% less than it has been so far? We had, and now to say, the fat tax, I explained yesterday, our whole oil is bigger with a smaller VAT than it was a year ago with a bigger VAT. That's what interests the citizens, and we have to tell them. You don't want coffee that cost 7 kuna more for 6 kunas in no catering facility, you don't want non-alcoholic juice or I don't know any juice, or a non-alcoholic drink that cost 15 kunas for 13 because it fell VAT. This will become a benefit for the caterer, and we agree with that, let them benefit from it because at these years they may have worked in other conditions or their incomes have been higher and lower. Maybe the 25% VAT took them on some other side a lot more than they're going to get now with this 25 to 10% VAT reduction just to say certain catering activities, and we need to clear up the accommodations of 70 or 80% of Croatia's tourism income, so then we can compare what we were made in time, and if this is late, we won't be doing much good for, I say, for the users. They'll still pay what they're told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23091	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23092	Absolutely with everything you've said, Mr. Representative, I agree. There's about $400 million in the game, that's what the Minister of Tourism told me. Yes, they need to be invited by the gentleman's caterers, etc. Go down with the prices for a certain percentage. If they're going to do it, I don't know, if they don't have to go back to 25%, I'm completely open to it. In France, let's say that this law is a form of one that last or last year at the beginning of the crisis that occurred there as well as with us their catering services went down after the VAT reduction. But I agree the French are French, and we are. But the fact is that in that France, because of these very changes in VAT, people's hospitality was more employed by workers, they worked more, they paid more taxes, it was benefiting the state, they had hosts, in one word they were benefiting citizens. So one approach like this I think is commendable and should be supported. And I agree with Mr. Shucker's intervention and when it fell to that 10%, that's the same truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23093	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23094	Thank you, Vice-President and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, which is referred to as an emergency procedure. In a little over a month, it will be a time of congratulation, giving, and good wishes. On that occasion, our government has made sure that it offers citizens a new VAT with higher prices and significantly before Croatia enters the European Union. The higher VAT from the zero rate will increase to 5% and our prices will increase for all types of bread, all kinds of milk, medicines identified on the list of Croatian Health Insurance Institute, products that are surgically incorporated into human bodies, implants, heart valves, electronic stimulators, artificial joints, stems, etc., and all other medical products for physical damage from the rule on orthopaedic and other aids of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Books of professional, scientific, artistic, cultural and educational content, textbooks for preschool education, for primary, secondary and higher education, video tapes, audio tapes, scientific journals, public screening services. I will not talk about boats because my colleague Beus spoke about boats and introduced us about the reduction of VAT on ships in the period until 1.5, but what I want to warn you about, and that is what the law writers say is about inevitable changes in VAT and collection, and the explanation we have repeatedly heard from their mouths to comply with the European Union Directive. Croatia should join the European Union on 1 July next year. In order for this to happen, two conditions are needed, the first one still needs seven months, and the second one is that we have 8 EU member states to ratify accession contracts. I hope this other one comes true without any surprises. But I wonder why we burden citizens 6 months before Croatia's official entry into the European Union, and I see no obstacle to the application of the law since Croatia's official entry into the European Union. There's no obstacle to that, but it looks like someone has to pay that price again if there's a budget shortage and it's clear that they're going to pay our citizens again. It would be calculated that the change of this law will increase revenues in the state budget by around 1.3 billion kuna, which means that one half of that amount should again be taken back to our citizens for the first 6 months. The bill is probably good because citizens have to eat or starve, and when they are sick, they don't ask for the price of their health and single out everything they have. The question is whether the zero VAT rate within the EU applies in all countries? We are not even equal here either because although the zero VAT rate exists and obliges EU member states towards the 6th Directives that the EU countries have accepted and at which the preferential VAT rate should not be less than 5% but at the same time there are still a few countries allowed to retain a zero VAT rate in the EU. e.g. In the United Kingdom, the zero VAT rate applies to almost all food products, and more than zero VAT rates apply to animal food as well as to crops and plants. They're more likely to have animals and animal nutrition as long as our citizens are as far as I can see and aren't. The same situation is similar in Ireland where the zero rate is applied to books, English, Irish are not the only exception, the zero VAT rate has Malta as well as the Canary Islands that are part of Spain. All these countries were authorised to maintain a zero VAT rate and after a famous 6th EU directive came into force. From the EU institutions, they have been authorised to tax certain products at a lower rate of 5%, their only condition is that zero-rate taxation should not extend to new products or reduce below that rate of 5%. France and Italy both have a VAT below 5%. They are neither the only exceptions to European rules which Croatia has had to obey since the 1st of next year. The number of countries that do not comply with the 5% minimum preferential VAT rate is also negligible. In France, there is a rate of 2.1% in Italy of 4% in Ireland of 4.8% and in Luxembourg of 3%. Croatia must abolish the VAT rate zero and accept a minimum rate of 5% because this is the condition and the price of EU entry. Due to the rigidity of EU rules, which simply does not allow a lower value added tax for new members as the old members look fat through their fingers. They claim we should be better than half next year. I wonder why when we're better off, we wouldn't start using a higher rate and spare the citizens at least six months of hitting their standard. Aren't ruling really socially insensitive and aware that we have worse and worse indicators. Like we called it in a way that everything falls that shouldn't fall. There's traffic going down in the shops for a little bit. Whether the use of these rates will increase to traffic or continue to fall, for bread and milk will be isolated to survive but there will be no money for the other so that the effects will clearly be where and where more negative on those other products to be bought. We have blocked accounts of 233,000 citizens, we can imagine how these purchases will apply from 1.1 next year, we have over 346 thousand 800 unemployed, the minimum wage has fallen to 35% of the average salary. The Croatian Labourers' proposal to increase minimum wage has not been accepted and thus protect that part of the endangered workers. The average pension rate on average has fallen to 39%, and we have 700 thousand pensioners receiving a pension under two thousand kuna. Every fifth citizen of our beautiful country is poor, and a new blow to citizens besides this will also be the application of excise duties brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia out of its jurisdiction because this is also the condition of EU accession. Minimum excise duties will be applied to electricity, gas and energy, and how much will we really see when the Government decides to do so. Finally, Croatian Labourists will not accept the bill because we do not see any reason for its application before Croatia's official entry into the EU if we believe it is to the detriment of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23095	Thank you. Replica has a colleague named Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23096	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Tušek, I'd like to join your debate with the next line and look back at something you said, which is that citizens have to eat and that they have more to eat in the EU than we do in Croatia, and you said something else that the old members have negotiated things better than we have. Well, it all has a causal relationship. So we know that Croatian citizens are more stressed than all these taxes and increases in prices and electricity and water and heating, and this has increased the price of the product, you said it yourself. However, as for agricultural products in the markets today, here I am really going every morning before I come to the Parliament and I, among other things, have started shopping, regardless of what we are in a group of people who have relatively high incomes in Croatia but are bought in pieces, two bananas are bought, one salad is bought, 30 mg of meat is bought, fruit is seen and this is home-made fruit is bought, for 3-4 apples people buy. No one can bring a bag or vegetables or meat for 150, 160 kuna. It especially collected vegetables because here again and again, I will stress, elemental accidents and droughts, but also low temperatures have led to product purchases. It's just that the animal food was the most affected in these elemental disasters. However, it is neither rebalancing nor in this budget we have seen the funds in this regard. So the government didn't care...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23097	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23098	Let me just have one more sentence as far as the negotiations are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23099	You're all running out of time. Look at the screen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23100	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, in much part I agree with what you've replicated to me because it's also in the part of which I said that 1/5 Croatian citizens barely survive, they find themselves in such a bad social situation that they have to give up a lot. They also give up parts of a healthy diet, which also affects their health care. It is in some ways when we look on the other side that certain health care funds have been reduced. The question is, how are these people going to get treated when they get sick? In that part of the country is quite socially insensitive to these citizens. Time will eventually show whether we are going into even greater poverty with these measures, and I don't see any of those promised all those investments of new employment, raising standards so far, nothing has happened. I am afraid that with these moves, when we are applying certain measures that have been hit by the population for six months, and we do not want to apply them to Croatia's entry into the European Union that this part is really not taken into account, especially when it comes to the protection of the standards of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23101	Next line, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23102	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Tušak, you see, you are offended when we tell you that in your discussions you have often been demagogues, and in this debate tonight you have been very much demagogue. In your debate, you said that the time is coming here I will try to quote you, the holiday, the time of the donation, and that the Croatian Government is giving its citizens a higher VAT. So you are telling Croatian citizens who have decided to join the European Union in the vast majority, and this European Union has its own rules. One of these is that there is no zero VAT rate or below 5%. The truth is, you listed some of the old members of the European Community who have lower rates, but they inherited it from me to say... the rates have had since entering the European Community. So all the new members of the European Union cannot afford that luxury to say they have a zero or lower VAT rate. We must comply with European Union legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23103	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23104	Thank you, Vice President. So you can call me whatever you want, demagogue, populist, I won't be angry because what I'm saying is telling the truth, and you're trying to twist the truth because it's true that a zero VAT rate should not be applied by entering Croatia into the European Union and you are now trying to convince your discussion and giving citizens a message that a rate of 5% must be applied from 1.1 next year. That's not true. And you can keep saying we're populists, but we're trying to tell the truth. I said the same thing in my discussion, we proposed a minimum wage law that would somehow protect citizens with minimum wage. That's what you refused. Call us still populists and demagogues, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23105	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23106	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act with a final draft law, an emergency procedure of course, first and second reading. It was supposed to be a regular assembly procedure, but emergency procedures go into regular parliamentary procedure. We have 33 days left until 1 January 2013. 33 days, I'm going to mention number 3 because it's very important. The superstitions are convinced that number 13 is the cause of the accident. How in Croatia most of the citizens are Catholic faith and are not superstitious, but they still believe that 13 will bring disaster to them also refers to 2013. It refers to 2013 because why to introduce a tax of 5% on bread and milk with 1.1 if it is not a European Union directive. Why not wait with 5% tax until the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union? We can set things up like this, if we're going to speak in favor of the government. Some studies show that bread is harmful, contains no nutrients, has too much salt, causes obesity, causes diabetes and hypertension. So the government can simply say in Croatia is 60% overweight people and they don't need to eat bread. That's where we can or don't have to support them. However, with regard to VAT itself on 1 January 1998, a 22% rate was introduced. There has also been a zero rate introduction on bread, milk, medicines, books, etc. On 1 August 2009, the rate of 22% changed to 23%. The 23% rate was replaced by 25% on 1 March 2012. So all the time it's about increasing VAT. What's next? I'd say the sky is the limit. Are there more tax hikes coming up? I'm sure you do. What is relatively good about this bill? We at the HDSSB club support a reduction in VAT rates on sports vessels and entertainment that are being placed in the customs procedure for free circulation since 31 May 2013. That was finally discussed on the Tourism Committee this morning. However, what is interesting is a representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who has pointed out a few facts that are worrying and evidence that certain ministries in this government are not in synergy and do not comply with their regulations. 10,000 vessels are under the flag's side. It is a large number of vessels that should cross this reduced rate under the Croatian flag, and that is where Croatia should earn some money. However, the procedure is too long and too long. In order for the vehicle to be registered, or the vessel to register, it shall have a technical correctness certificate, the port captains shall carry out technical checks. We've heard from fellow MPs themselves that port captains don't have enough employees to carry out those technical checks. They're conducting 4000 inspections. We're going to add 10,000 ships to them now, and there's no hiring new ones. The process of proving that the vessel is manufactured in the EU is complicated. If the vessel is not manufactured in the EU, customs duties shall be paid from 8% to 12%. So, when we place a customs duty of 8 to 12% plus these 5% VAT, it will eventually result in the non-registration of vessels in the Republic of Croatia. The reduction of VAT rates in tourism, i.e. food and drink services, clearly points out that tourism is one of the strategic sectors of the Croatian economy. It is believed that reducing the VAT rate will boost competitiveness and increase employment in the tourism sector. So it is clear to all of us that tourism is the strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia. But what about agriculture? Prime Minister Milanovic said yesterday that food will be more strategically important than oil in the future. Did we cut the VAT rate to meat? Did we reduce the rate on other agricultural products? We're not and we're not. What should be the objective of tax policy in the Republic of Croatia? Reduce VAT in agriculture to re-promaterials, to seeds, to fruit material, to fertilisers. Reduce VAT on meat. If we do not already reduce VAT on all agricultural products, then at least we should reduce VAT on organic and organic grown products that are extremely wanted in Europe. And it is likely that Europe will also require certain procedures in connection with these organic and organic productions. In Slovenia, the VAT rate is 8%. We talked about how many milkmen there were in 2011, how many there are today. Cows go to slaughter, meat is cheap today. However, in 2013, it will not be cheap because it will not be. He won't be there for expensive food for cattle and people are forced now to drag their cattle to slaughter. It's mentioned a 5% harvest of bread and milk, and then it's speculated that it's a non-essential 20.30 lip addition. It's not no big deal. This gathering will have a significant impact on citizens' standards. The wages are shrinking. We have 350,000 unemployed. So what are we finally gonna do? Reduce the tax burden on citizens. The reduction of tax burden will increase consumption, thus both production and ultimately reduce unemployment. In this case, the HDSSB will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23107	Thank you. The replica of counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23108	My colleague, Chesek, I must first respond to number 13. There's no need to generalize. Let's say for me, 13 is a lucky number. I'm married 13.6 on Antunovo, and I consider it a happy date. A colleague, Salapic, was born 13. So I give you the right to think as you wish, but let's not generalize. But now let's get back to this topic. It is not a problem, i.e. the biggest problem of Croatian citizens is that there will be a rise, the elimination of zero rates and 5%. The biggest problem of Croatian citizens is that there has been an increase in VAT from 23% to 25% because it has hooked everything up. And when zero was abolished, it was partially and knew whether or not it was said that we were going to join the EU. But there's going to be an increase in VAT from 23% to 25% today, and they haven't said a word. Because if they'd said no, they wouldn't be ruling today, that's what it's all about. And it is precisely the increase in VAT to 25% of the most powerful generator of the shameful fact that today Croatia is one of the highest places in Europe and also in the world by poverty, over 21% of the citizens, more than 900 thousand citizens in Croatia belong to the category of the poor. If a zero VAT rate on these groceries has to be abolished, why do the rulings not think about canceling, say, reducing VAT to other supplies or supplies that fall into the basics? Like water, you can't live without water. And we pay VAT 25%. Put that back to 5% and maybe you'll compensate at least partially for what we're going from 0 to 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23109	We're paying 10% for your information. Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23110	My colleague Buric absolutely agrees with everything you have said, but what interests me most in this whole story why, for God's sake, introduce a 5% rate six months before it's necessary? So we are forced by European directives to introduce a 5% tax but when Croatia enters the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23111	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23112	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's a law in front of us that's been spoken of honestly for a long time. At the moment that Croatia practically finalised its EU accession negotiations, then it began to talk and talk about harmonising certain tax laws and tax rates with EU directives and they would say nothing is disputed, it is simple and must be done. But there's one big but. In the Ministry of Finance, there was always some idea that when this is done that we would find a certain substance for another food product, which is meat that should be put down at a low rate of 5%. It's financial around here somewhere. You can also read certain articles from a few years ago so that it doesn’t turn out that someone is selling demagogue now. But it was simply said that when we get to this that we will seek a rate-reduction substitute for some other food products and therefore the HDZ club will give an amendment to this to suggest that 5% of the value added tax is also taxed fresh meat with the tax rate. And we think that this way we will help Croatian citizens. If the Government accepts it, then we will also accept their claim that this amendment of the law does not seek exclusively to fill the budget that we were listening to yesterday all day long. If the Government does not accept it then this thesis falls into the water and then our claim that this tax is additionally burdened by Croatian citizens is gained in strength and then the the thesis that one of the basic goals and ways of solving the problem of the revenue side of the budget in 2013 is also being confirmed because it is definitely that the Government wants to patch up the gaps in the budget with this 5%. But I think, colleagues and colleagues, that at this point, regardless of political belongings, whether we are government or opposition, we should think about Croatian citizens and difficult lives because at this point there are almost 360 thousand unemployed and simply with the rise of the price of bread, milk, and not to mention that the books will grow, I will talk about drugs later, we simply have to think about helping them. Because some bad experiences from previous years when the value added tax rate for hotel accommodation and half board and full pension did not lead to price reductions, but next year prices grew. The same story was with the lower VAT rate from 22 to 10% for the daily sheets. So these are facts we can't escape from. They're just here, they're done. And the thing is that we from the position of the strongest opposition party are proposing something, it's a matter of corn coalition whether they accept it or not. So there's a thing quite clear. And we can now get hooked up and pull back on whether this was supposed to be from 1.01 or 1.07. The government thing, the budget needs said 1.01. We logically say you shouldn't have gone from 1.01 to 1.07. And that's something that's completely logical and normal. However, we discussed the State Budget for 2013 here all day yesterday. Mild hints of me and my fellow Reiner in the late evening that what's with the health care, which is with the VAT in the health care simply remained irresponsible on this side. Because certain positions at the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health like anyone else wants to speak are simply reduced. And now the question is, if hospitals are going to pay 5% on drugs, if they're going to pay 5% on orthopaedic aids and we've cut them off from what sources of funds are they going to pay? Or do we think that we will reduce consumption even after reduced consumption of bread and milk reduce the consumption of drugs and orthopaedic aids? That's the most vulgar thing a man could say. So a series of simple questions that if you take the budget that we discussed yesterday, which probably the ruling coalition will adopt next week, you simply don't have an answer to that. And the Croatian public will surely seek these answers. However, I would like to see some of the MPs who have been so generously discussing 5% on board vessels today under this definition that the HDZ accidentally suggested it. There'd be crime, hiding behind it. I'd rather not even mention what you'd hear from this pay phone. Because that would simply be rhetoric, because it's a rhetoric used when it comes to HDZ, but when it comes to us it's all wonderful, wonderful, it encourages something etc. However, colleagues and colleagues I will ask you just a few questions, not to you, I mean as colleagues, but colleagues... And certainly he doesn't know many questions because they're not in the power of the Ministry of Finance, and these very questions in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance are very important about what kind of attitude we're going to take around this 5%. [[You don't understand.]] In 2005, in the Ministry of Finance in the Customs Administration, a major cleanup action took place over the ownership of Croatian ships that had dual citizenship, which had citizenship in Italy, in the Cayman Islands, and asked God all where, and based on the positive legal provisions they had the right to introduce and car, and vessel, but when you apply all the legal regulations then they simply had no right to do so and several hundred of them, so I think over a thousand paid huge customs duties, huge taxes on those ships that were under some foreign flag, were owned by Croatian citizens. And look what we're proposing right now. He's saying sports and entertainment vessels, now what's the definition of a sports and entertainment vessel? I think none of you here, if we were all 150 as much as we are in this House of Commons, would know a clear definition, nor would anyone know that definition, because look at someone who has hundreds of millions of euros in income, they've been boating him for sport and yacht entertainment of 30, 40 million euros. Someone named Stipi or Frani was a couch entertainment vessel that may have cost a thousand euros. And now we're gonna treat it the same way and watch it. So that's the first question that no one has offered us an answer. The second question, this is a law for non-citizens of Croatia, but for foreigners. There is an elementary question here whether you as a Croat can now go to Italy to buy Alfa Romeo or Fiat, talk about Italian vehicles and register that vehicle on you? You can't. You can talk 15 times that you're a tourist, and you'll be driving on the runways, on this one, on that one, and that's how you'll encourage Italian tourism. And I continue to argue that those who come to the Croatian Adriatic, who want to do the nautical work, should pay very much in Croatia to enjoy the beauty of the Croatian Adriatic, because there is no such nautical beauty anywhere in the world. Isn't that right, colleague Klarin? Because what's out there next to your community doesn't exist anywhere in the world. And instead of charging us, because look at us Austrians when we come skiing or the Italians take us up that cable car and then up on that hill charges you everything alive and dead, and he doesn't even ask you if you want to buy that beer 10 euros, and then rent the panzers by it, skis by it, he doesn't ask you at all, so pay it if you want to enjoy it. And look, we keep coming at someone. Nautical sport is not a sport of the poor, to buy a boat of 50, 100 or 200 thousand euros that the poor cannot afford, it affords people who have money, and these people will also pay. They will be able to come to Croatia after 1.7 because we are a member of the European Union to sail as well. Look, I wouldn't sell the Croatian flag for a single rate of VAT, and that I'm sailing on a ship where there won't be a Croatian flag, there's no VAT rate for which I would do it, and that's what most of the owners of foreign boats are thinking about. There's something called love for its own country, something called national pride, and nobody's going to sell for a 5% VAT rate. I say I would never sell the VAT rate 5% if I weren't allowed to report the Croatian flag to the mast ship if I had one. But is there something else behind this? Is it someone who's not exactly a foreign citizen who wants to introduce this few million-euro yacht, so we're going to go through this story? And is the nautical tourism of poor Croatia dependent on whether the VAT rate will be 5%? One who once sails the Croatian sea, one who bathes on the coves of Croatian islands, no longer thinks about the VAT rate, only remembers those beautiful moments. And if we are in this House talking in such a way, talking about our homeland, then we don't need any VAT rates coming down, because it's just beautiful, it's too beautiful for the Croatian coast to tell me that 10 thousand of these vessels will stay in Croatia, they're here because they're beautiful, because nowhere in this part of the world is as beautiful as on the Croatian coast, and I'm here to charge them even more and there are far more islanders and all the other people living around, that we simply through these money that we get left on these islands and to give their children life. That way, if we're gonna talk about tax policy, then I'm gonna back this bill. But if we were to raise someone to enjoy our beauty, so forgive me for not being such a story, but I repeat this is a little emotional speech, but I repeat that this is the way the HDZ suggested, the same people who so much praise this law would see us talking about this. So we have no reason to pray, we have no reason to complain, and I think it's a shame to suggest something like this. It's a shame. That someone who does not live in Croatia, who is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia can introduce a 10.15m-euro boat per 5% VAT rate, and a Croatian citizen cannot buy or introduce a... Thousands of euros per 5%, but must pay the VAT 25%. [[You don't understand.]] It's a matter of constitutionality. Because when a certain representative so beautifully quoted texts from Smail age Cengic, then the question arises, they asked whether the tax of the systematic position was equal, whether they were all equally taxed. Now I wonder, my colleague and colleagues, do we, with these laws, put the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in line for lower importance? Do we, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, have the right to do so? Remember there is something called love for the country, there is something that many of these foreigners who have a vessel in Croatia will not sell their flag for reduced VAT, just as Croatians would not give their trifecta with a chess box to reduce the VAT rate to 5% that is the position of the HDZ club their flag, its chess room for no VAT rate, and that is the thinking of most owners of these boats. Thank you very much. We're not gonna back this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23113	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23114	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Shuker with a lot of findings that you have said today must indeed agree, especially with this one I will start with this last boat-bound yacht, there is no excuse to come not only to the rich, but to come from Croatia or outside of Croatia, because it is true that yachts do not drive the poor but also to the rich, but this is another proof that our government is coming to the foreigners, just as we have shown fear and suspicion and that yesterday's debate about the systematic and possible and deliberate destruction of Croatian agriculture so that property over the land that no one will carry from Croatia comes into the hands of foreigners and those who will have money and eventually those incentives that will be brought back to their country. But it's nothing you were surprised at is nothing unusual, this is just another proof that the politics of today's ruling Social Democrats has nothing to do with social democracy, is they themselves saying it's no longer a social democratic but neoliberal policy that raises large capital rather than a small ordinary man. And just in conclusion that in one sentence you said there are a lot of questions opening up. As time goes on, we are increasingly witnessing that many questions are that we have not been given answers to many questions to Croatian citizens, and when we adopt a referendum on EU accession, as we have also warned from the Labour Club that it is not coming together. If the citizens were then told what the arrival of the Croatian Union would be likely to be greater and the result... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23115	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So the owners of these boats are paying the vignette at the moment it's an annual stay in the Republic of Croatia at the moment of importing them are no longer... So that's one long-term income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a one-time income, but the obligation of technical examination and the rest of them must do so in Croatia, I will now tell you why. Every 6 months, they must report to the port captainship, that they have applied, so the ship does not leave the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia, and if for the obligation of technical examination and that it could sail a subsidized ship under the Croatian flag then it is also subject to that ship under another flag because in Croatia and did not leave the territorial waters, so he did not go to his home country and did a technical examination there. He's got to do a technical checkup somewhere. So it must be determined whether the ship is correct or not. But I repeat, all these people on the mast hang their own domicile flag and then hang the flag of the land in which they sail. And simply with certain tax laws and with certain standards, we should first of all think about how to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia and not sell the Buddha for why. Also, someone wouldn't say that this is an obstruction of foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia, no. Foreigners will always come and invest where they find it interesting and where they can make money so they can come to Croatia for a holiday so that they can make money and buy a Croatian country for a simple reason that it is not as polluted with pesticides as it is in many European countries, so it is interesting for them. Look at what happened in Romania and who bought agricultural land in Romania. So this topic deserves a far broader discussion than this one sentence where it wants to get under the grain, and behind it is something else entirely. I'm saying I'd like to hear what rhetoric would have been if HDZ's finance minister had proposed some kind of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23117	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23118	Thank you very much. You've spoken very nicely and I'm signing everything you said and I'm going to add a section on the vignette. You're right if we can transfer in a short time, I doubt these 10,000 because we don't have the administrative capacity to do so, so it's also asked the will you're talking about and the wishes of both the Germans and the Austrians and any of the EU citizens that has their flag on that boat, the yacht or whatever it is we want to call the vessel. The question of loss on the vignette system is raised. Vinjeta is paid per metre in debt. 3 metres 300 kuna, 7 meters 700 kuna, yacht over 12 meters over a thousand and a half kuna. These are the revenues of the state budget shared on the company... to maintain the safety of navigation to maintain certain water signals etc. And the question arises what do we get through this 5% VAT on the catalogical value of the vessel that we're going to paint or we're not going to say plus customs and plus VAT. It's the same rank for me and we won't get anything but injustice because I who come from the island if I want to buy a boat and a boat have to pay for the VAT 25%. 95% of people who do what we call sports and recreation here, and that's a little squid, that's a little bit of net or I don't know what it is, plus 5% of professional fishermen or how many of them there are already, because I don't really know that number is in an unequal position. And can we then conclude that this is a law that rewards a stranger and punishes a local man and a citizen, the inhabitants of the island and the coast and can we really support such an injustice and the question of the Constitution that leads us to an unfair position as counterpart Schuker said in relation to EU citizens? I think we have to agree on that because really, what makes someone on the side more valuable than ourselves or more than us five times in this case...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23119	Replication response, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23120	Thank you very much. You see, fellow Boric, no one here will say if there is a danger that there will now be a series of temporary imports here with the ultimate goal of selling the ship in a year or two in Croatia. If we cut that ship's VAT from 25 to 5%, if we cut it... it's 30 percent cheaper than it is. Is that how we dig the grave for domestic shipbuilders, and we talk about how much we want to help them? So don't be sure that the foreigners of this ship will not sell in Croatia for a year or two at some far lower price, and buy themselves a bigger boat for the simple reason that their standard of living is far higher. And then who's going to get hurt, domestic shipmen who produce small ships who simply won't be able to compete with this for a million reasons. The second thing is, when we talk about the foreigners running away, look at the Italians every year, nothing can stop them from coming to Croatia through the Adriatic, not the storms or the south or that, they come to Croatia. Few of them will leave their ships here. Austrians, Germans and others left ships for the simple reason the law allowed them to do so. Sidrenje, their dry bond in Croatia is far cheaper than in their home country. They have no obligation to bring the ship back, they don't have to tumbat on the roads and... the boat because they simply used the possibility of going far cheaper in Croatia than at home, because if that ship had been brought home, it would have cost them three or four times more expensive than in Croatia. Here's what I can confirm to my colleagues and Baranovic and Klarin who are down from the sea. It's known exactly how much the dry embroidery costs in the marina, and how much it costs somewhere else. So, perhaps this way somewhere somewhere in the distance is an economic intention but it hides a tremendous amount of traps that Croats can break in the head. And secondly, do we not cheat on members of the European Union? If these ships haven't tracked the VAT to them because they went on temporary imports to Croatia, and now we're offering some cheaper VAT than they have at home, they want to feel deceived...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23121	Thank you very much. Replica, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23122	Dear colleague Schuker, you spoke in your debate about the HDZ Club proposal that you will say you will also translate into the amendment, that the increase in VAT on bread and milk could actually be compensated in a way that reduces VAT to meat. What I'm trying to tell you is that, and we've heard this already, 900,000 Croats living in the poverty zone right now, and that's terrible, it's a devastating fact, but I don't think actually lowering VAT to meat would help them much in their existence, and it wouldn't do them much good to improve their material status because they actually don't have meat. And that's why your proposal reminds me terribly of that historic Marie Antoinette, if they don't have bread, give them cake.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23123	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23124	Look, if a kilo of meat costs 30 kuna and you cut the VAT rate from 25 to 5%, then figure out how much it's less per kilo. In a week, in fact, have that poor guy buy five kilos of meat in two weeks, he's got five kilos of meat for 1 kg of meat. And you can't say that to people who live unfortunately, which the situation has brought to the brink of existence, you can't say that it means nothing to them. You can't tell them that one, two meals of meat that they're going to get by reducing that VAT rate means nothing. I'm sorry, it's looking from some angle that doesn't understand people who live a month with 3,000 kuna. It's just the way it is. Because you can't say if you get 1 kg of meat free of charge that tax cuts don't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23125	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a colleague of Branko Hrg. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate this point. Next colleague, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23126	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the thing that's longer and longer, we're opening up more and more questions, and we understand one thing, so it'd be most desirable that we don't bring this law into an emergency procedure rather than put it in another reading, so that these problems that are being opened and that we bring them in as we should. I return to the beginning when, on behalf of the promoter, the deputy minister spoke and said that if we do not have fiscal consolidation, we cannot think about the well-being of citizens, or we cannot raise the standard for citizens if we do not stabilise public finances. In this context, it was also mentioned that a million and 200 thousand pensioners need a state budget and that we are then passing certain tax laws precisely because of how this long and demand side could be properly harmonised. However, the fact is that today we are talking about this law to bring in two different things, so let's try to ask what the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia Marko Marulic gets when we vote for this law by his vote. So in one article we are talking about VAT, an increase from 0 to 5%, and this includes those basic provisions of life, and in the following article we are talking about sports and recreation boats. And we certainly can't compare that with that average citizen of the Republic of Croatia because these two things simply don't apply to him in that context. It would be good to talk and to balance these two things, which is bread and milk at 5% if it's right, and then to go meat, to fall also to 5%, so if that poor citizen who lives in poverty can't buy a pound of meat or five kilos to get a hernia, then at least let him afford a steak with this which will increase his basic needs of life. If we do a bill on a liter of milk and a loaf of black bread in a month of this law, we deny the Croatian citizen a day-long consumption of these two basic products. So, by increasing from 5% of citizens, they lose about 12 kuna to the lowest prices of these groceries, so we can say that we take out a loaf of bread and a liter of milk from their mouths, so how much it was demagogy and populism what we're saying now is pure mathematics, and unfortunately every citizen of us accounts every day. It's not just bread and milk. The problem is also about medicines determined by a decision on the establishment of a list of medicines made by the Ministry of Health. In yesterday's debate on the 2013 Draft Budget, prescription medicines are being reduced by 274 million kuna, which means that less and less medicines will be available to our citizens on a prescription. They're gonna have to pay more and more, so we're gonna take it away from them from what little and more. But they'll have to pay even more and certainly 5%. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we're passing the Law of Hospitals, because we've determined that hospitals have great losses. He told his colleague Schuker that yesterday's budget was not planning expenditure for these medicines in hospitals, so here is another additional question. So the questions have a terrible, terrible lot, but I'm afraid there's no answer, because simply whatever answer we say won't be the truth that's happening right now and that's in Croatia. When we talk about reducing the food tax and bringing it down to 10%, unfortunately, of the citizens we're increasing these most basic foods and raising VAT to 5% will not have much help. Because it's hard for those who don't have and who don't have 5% of the problem, and we're talking about this very large number of citizens who live in poverty who will hardly have to drink that little thing in the catering facility, and then there's going to be some kind of balance here, and they're going to be able to get as much money as we take every day to consolidate the state budget to get someone else, so we can give it to each other. Unfortunately, the situation is such that the beneficiary of the state budget will be more and more every day, and I'm afraid we have less and less space to invent some new taxes and bring some new charges. And as much as we tend to how much it takes for this 5% bill to be passed whatever its reason is we put everything aside, but let's try to answer honest citizens only one question. If we are obliged to enter a 5% tax on these products that we are talking about why we are doing it with 1.1 and not the day we enter the EU. And as much philosophy and as much justification as we can make and as much as we say, the fact remains and the truth remains that we charge our citizens bread, milk, medicines, books, textbooks and all that is written here consciously 6 months earlier, provided that we enter the EU 1.7. That's true and I don't think anyone can escape no matter what way he talks and no matter which side he sits on in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23127	Thank you very much. It's my friend Ivan Klarin's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23128	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister and Director of the IRS. Here I didn't want to replicate Mr. Shucker, although he had an interesting discussion that I absolutely disagree with. And I believe Mr. Shucker that you are in our cities to praise this measure. I will now read to you the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Branimir Hungarian, a professional associate of the Tourism Sector which says, therefore, about the amendments and additions to this Act and these measures. We give you extremely positive reactions. Members of the Association of Croatian Marines on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax with the final proposal of the Law, and the announcement that most owners of the vessel in the regime of temporary imports under foreign flags will benefit from the benefit provided by the Republic of Croatia for the release of such vessels for free circulation by 31 May 2012. So says the profession from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. I hope you as a longtime representative and minister of the profession and respect. Furthermore, as far as this law is concerned, I must really express my positive reactions and not only has this law been approved by the European Commission. So there were complaints about it, but you know what the complaints were about. Because the rate was too low for them and they found themselves at risk. The lowest rate is Malta, the Republic of Malta which is 4.5% regardless of what we join the EU tomorrow. So they don't like competition as far as low rates are concerned. I would like to stress once again the satisfaction of the association of Croatian, therefore Croatian marinas which I told you and which I told you at the beginning. As far as the nautical business is concerned, so the nautical season is the most significant in terms of tourism and the economic sector in tourism. So, the first one starts in March and the last one ends in November and I believe that these measures will therefore strengthen the local self-government directly that lives on it and the tourist community that collects income from it. I must also point out that as far as these measures are concerned, I absolutely support the announcements, but everything the Ministry of Finance has done so far as the tourism sector is concerned. It is my responsibility that no government has ever done as much for tourism as this Government of the Republic of Croatia has done and this ministry. First, it reduced VAT in tourism from 25% to 10%. No government has ever done that. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah, for a drink. For all the restaurants, so all the hotels for all the hospitality. It's a very important measure. 90% of entrepreneurs, therefore, from my neighborhood, and I don't know if there are any other representatives who come from the Adriatic, Mr. Boric, too, Mrs. Branka, so we live from tourism, directly or indirectly. So it's an extraordinary measure. And I would also point out that in July, then, we abolished the excise duty. You know that the Excise Taxation Act almost destroyed the small production of ships in the Republic of Croatia. So he put down the production and closed over a thousand jobs, closed over 500 crafts. I mean, those are facts. So in the 7th month, we changed that law that I think is very good. In addition to this measure, with a reduction in excise duties, with a reduction in VAT in tourism freely and responsibly, I can argue that tourism in the Republic of Croatia has brought about much better days than ever before. I would also look back on increasing the tourism ministry's budget. Well, I think we're all forgetting now. The Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand is thus reducing the VAT rate in tourism and normally putting itself at risk. The risk of budget cuts. On the other hand, it encourages the consumption of tourists and therefore expects the budget to be charged from that item. Last year we had the best tourist season, 11.5 million tourists visited our coast, consumption jumped, and the number of overnight stays increased by 8%. So these are the facts that strengthen tourism. And I would disagree, therefore, with the debates of several colleagues who, in my opinion, have criticised this measure without any real arguments. You have now in Slovenia so that Slovenian manufacturers reduce prices, they reduce prices and encourage them to introduce a 5% rate into the Republic of Croatia. Buy a boat and go to the Republic of Croatia. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what they're doing next-door countries is making the most of the ships come to the Republic of Croatia considered to be extremely, extremely high-quality. I still have to stress that there will not only be income from the 5% VAT. So, customs fees, registration fees, boat inspection fees, but let's not forget therefore and residence tax from many of them who are not therefore shallow pockets but are a deep pocket that will transfer vessels to the Republic of Montenegro and remain our tourists, our guests, who have done this before in either the Republic of Malta or Montenegro. There. I mean, I won't last any longer. So I'm not going to make this second part of the amendments to the law but as a member of the Assembly's Tourism Committee I've had to say this myself, especially I'm glad that at first I said that positive reactions, positive criticisms of the HGK, the Association of So-called Marines, the Association of Charterers. So these are all those who give relevant opinions on these amendments to the law. And they assess them positively, so I do not think there should be skepticism in this Croatian Parliament regarding these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23129	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23130	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Klarin and I have not said that the boatmen are not interested in such a law. They are interested because they see benefit for their business segment in this law. And that's legitimate. You did not want to talk about injustice against Croatian citizens, those millions of people on the coast in 8 counties of the coast who pay 5 times the tax for the same thing, i.e. VAT. If that is good, of course you will pass the law, for Croatian citizens. But now on the side of the boat, we've got ACI marinas that are empty today. Here's mine on the island of Rab, we have two, in the city of Rab, five pontons, maybe 10 tied boats. Of course it's the boat's interest to tie up that boat in that marina and charge both the chain and everything else that goes along with it. Nobody slows it down. Are we just equal or are we in the same relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Now that's a fundamental question of this law. We claim that we are not and that it should be cleared up because we will bring those people who live by the sea and for the sea into an unequal position. And aside from those marina owners, those people who also do good work, hire, etc. and always have an interest in building a marina and looking for new pontons and expanding capacities etc. You were talking about the excise duties on the boats, so let's have the Deputy Minister tell us if we've been able to resuscitate a small shipbuilding? My island comes from the best small ship builder, Piculjan Marin, and let's ask him if he's in difficulty. In all sorts of difficulties, regardless of the excise duties on small boats. That's a fact because the market for vessels is in crisis regardless of what we have reduced excise duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23131	The answer to the replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23132	I don't see what's wrong with that. What's wrong with filling your marina on Rab? Will that fill your marina in Rab, so we cut the excise duty to 5%? It will. Will restaurants and cafes, hotels benefit better than that on Rab Island? It will. I therefore do not see your skepticism and concern, and I must say, this measure strengthens the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and tourism, and you know it very well. And as for the empty marina on Rab, it surprises me, the Murter marinas have a waiting list of over 80 to 100 ships, and with this you will fill your marina on Rab and increase VAT, so, with the arrival of a larger, large number of your nearby Italian and Slovenian neighbours. So since 1.1 they will no longer go to Montenegro, in Malta they did not even go because it is far, but will go to Rab, Murter, Vodice, Trogir etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23133	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23134	So look, colleague Klarin, if in this law it were to apply this legal provision to ships manufactured in Croatia and to Croatian citizens, then I would support you in everything you say, but you know what will happen? This law will only destroy Croatian shipmen, and a bunch of people on the outside will make temporary imports of ships and next year, a year and a half will sell. Don't forget, in the last year and a half, there hasn't been virtually any ship trading at world fairs for two days. Look how many ships have been sold to you at the fairs, so you'll see how many European manufacturers, American ship manufacturers have ships on the lager. Ivan's gonna call Janez, Stipe's gonna call Stefan, we're gonna make a temporary import, and then we're gonna make a buy in a year. Let's not pretend naive and say that we support something, this is definitely the burial of Croatian shipbuilding, remember, this decision, small Croatian shipbuilding, we talked about the big one yesterday too much. So let's not think that we're bringing a good measure, and what you're saying about the economic chamber, about the marina, I said the normal thing is that they want to sell... and they are in the interest of paying them a year of 5, 6, 7 or 10 thousand euros, but I am also asking you a question you will see when it comes to the end that it must take off its flag and put only a Croatian flag on how many of them will be willing to do it because of 10 or 15% of the VAT. [[You don't understand.]] Let us not fool ourselves, but I repeat, we are going to put an end to the law, and for ships produced in Croatia and for Croatian citizens, and this is how we put Croatian citizens in our own country somewhere else is not good. And another thing, Ivan, I would never say to my community that the stimulant is to the boatman to come to a lower VAT rate, the stimulant is the beauty of Tisnoga, Kornati, and the rest of the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23135	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23136	Mr. Shuker, they all love beauty, but they like to pay less when they come to Tisno, Dubrovnik and Trogir. As for the funeral, the death of a small Croatian shipbuilding, that is, that day happened when you introduced excise duties unfortunately. I respect you all, but that day happened. You've ruined, not you directly, but the government's many jobs in small shipbuilding, and that's a fact. We've abolished those excise duties, and after that, I'm not saying that small shipbuilding will flourish. ... I'm not going into it right now, but I'm saying that small shipbuilding can't even bloom because normal general, world economic crisis is the worst economic crisis in the last, after World War II, but the funeral of small shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia happened so when the HDZ government introduced excise duties and that will tell you all charterers, it will tell you all those who produce small ships from Piculjana and beyond. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23137	And Martina Dalic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23138	Thank you very much. So actually this debate of yours and... I was inspired by another fact that should be kept in mind, there is no, there is not one tax, it does not stand on its own as a small tree, but the tax system acts together with all its taxes. [[You don't understand.]] Now, in the context of the arguments presented by counsel Schuker, you can still put that in an environment where you intend to introduce a property tax. Then it looks particularly bad compared to the equality of taxpayers in front of the law which essentially implies some kind of maintenance of equality in the weather, some previously paid for the same imports something much larger VAT, so then that Croatian citizen in front of the Croatian tax system seems to me to feel quite miserable, and it is the one who somehow has some property on the coast or tends to acquire some property on the coast. And this very property tax is explained by the fact that it will pay richer, and the poorer will pay less, thus increasing and improving the fairness of the tax system. This is never before clear and secure for you, and it is best for you to bear witness to this example of excise duties on ships. To me, this example was explained and told at the Ministry of Finance as one exemplar of what happens when Parliament and politics move towards a swift achievement of justice, because that excise tax was introduced unanimously in the Parliament, unanimously, politics was at that time very much seeking to punish the rich and charge something of the rich, and easier for the poor, and as explained to me, I wasn't even at the ministry, and I didn't particularly deal with it, the excise duty was introduced unanimously, everyone was thrilled. ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23139	Thank you very much, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23140	They showed negative effects, and then they went into something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23141	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23142	That's why it has to be... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23143	The answer to the replica, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23144	Mrs. Dalic, as far as excise duties are concerned, you cannot convince me that it was a good measure and I repeat, the second time the collapse of small shipbuilding has partly caused the measure. As for the property tax, so now you've made a comparison, I'm going to tell you an example from my community if I succeed in these minutes and a half. So in order for one municipality to increase the construction area must have a construction index of 80%. My municipality has a construction index of 78%, and 6 acres has one family owned by an inheritance. That family doesn't want to build, they don't want to sell, they're extremely rich, and they don't have their heirs. All other building land in the environment is thus spent. Urbanism in Sibenik tells me you can't go into expanding the new 20% construction zone because you haven't reached an 80% construction index. So now it's fair to introduce a property tax to sell, build something and let the other young people build it. Now I'm being attacked by my community by young colleagues, the mayor says everyone else changes everyone else goes into expanding the spatial plan and increasing the construction zone, and you can't. I say we can't name this family because I won't, but there's no transfer we can't because of this family. There is only one example of why I believe that real estate tax should be introduced in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23145	We're continuing the debate. He's a colleague of Josip Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23146	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I've tried to bring this law down to one sentence, I've been thinking for a long time about what to say, so here I often use the term carrots and beatings in this Croatian Parliament, so I'm going to call it very briefly this law is carrots for EU citizens and premature beatings for Croatian citizens. The VAT story is an old story in Croatia and dates back to '95 with the application when the Croatian Parliament decided to introduce a VAT with the beginning of '98. I remember then Minister Skegro was the main culprit for all the bad in the Republic of Croatia. There was no gangster on which his replica was not hanging, I remember the first Rijeka Carnival where he was the main protagonist in the form of masks and he then claimed it was a long-term good for the Republic of Croatia. After a certain flow of time and the governments themselves that followed, they realized that this VAT is a new option for the Republic of Croatia, that it can provide a new direction, possibly develop and satisfy certain rights of Croatian citizens. Today, VAT revenue is 50% of the state budget, half our budget is VAT. I said yesterday that the state has somehow become its own purpose as a state of VAT and contribution. The VAT in 2009 increased the HDZ government by 1%. In this assembly, there was a roar, there was a harbinger called, people reacted to it. However, in 2012, a similar i.e. was adopted. Changes to the same law were introduced from 23% to 25% from 2% to 2% more we listen yesterday and all these days in budget discussions it is a phenomenal decision, it is not an increase, it is a mechanism for reducing health contributions. And all the time Croatian citizens are convinced that this is not an increase that 25 is less than 23. And of course, what a Croatian citizen can do with such conviction than admit that 25 is indeed less than 23. However, practice speaks differently. The decision begins with the headaches of this government and the biggest problems of the Croatian economy begin with the 3rd month beginning all bad in the Republic no matter how much we do not want to admit it and no matter how much the government does not want to withdraw such a self-destructive decision because we are most expensive because it is not easy to make such a decision and it is certainly even harder than the same. That's the facts. We're here already in this year we're changing this law the second time, we say we're introducing a rate because we need 5% milk, bread, books, scientific journals, showing movies, products that are surgically embedded in the human body. And then in the debate more or less, we all catch the boats, sports boats and entertainment, and I'll talk about that part maybe something more. I don't know what to say when we have a picture in front of us and we're constantly flashing 10,000 boats that we can move very quickly under the Croatian flag and take the one-time fast money out there somewhere up to 1.7. We say we must be 1.7 in the EU immediately taxing 5% of 1.1 not to be late. And we see you're constantly late from the EU warnings, not going. And what if we don't get into that EU? Our VAT has been slightly bigger to anyone since 1.1. I hope it doesn't. But that's a question you should think about. It tells us that 10 thousand boats and then we immediately think 5% of VAT into the budget, import customs if the boat is not from the EU area, and we will charge the boat's registration fee on the obvious boats or the yacht register, and we will charge the boat's inspection fee, and there is certainly evidence of the technical acceptability given by the ship's register, so we have that radio frequency fee that we have to pay to pay for it to the HAC. And of course by watching who would be against it? But then the Croatian state appears. The Croatian state with its administration, its services, with its capacities and we ask a legitimate question whether we can transfer those 10,000 vessels that want as much as we hear under the Croatian flag in a short time. We don't think so in HDZ, but, well, let's just say we want so much so we can see what's waiting for them. Two procedures await them: import customs procedures, and the other is enrolment of the boat or register of yachts. This should go away otherwise there is no 5% VAT or any of these fees. And then there's the problem. The import customs procedure may not begin if the vessel does not have a wiper in its home register or register, as it will. Will the Germans, the Austrians, want to make such a quick release of those barbershops, I guess they will. The administration works differently with them. I don't know what their interest in it is, maybe they don't have any more interest in those vessels, and I'm saying they do. So we can't even start a procedure without it. If it appears that the vessel is not yet from the European Union and does not have that so-called. type-approval that every car that has to be subjected to before you buy it in the Republic of Croatia then and the vessel passes the entire procedure. Because not all vessels in the European Union are from the European Union and this needs to be cleared up. When we come to the customs section, everything is easy if the vessel has proof that it is originating in the European Union, there is no customs duty. However, if the vessel and owner of the European Union, and the vessel is just not manufactured there, we come under that famous EUR1 form and then the customs duty is at our highest 8 and 12%, we heard about it here today. In other countries, it is much smaller, between 1.7% and 2.7%. And if we have satisfied all this, it is a very clear combination that is profitable, a vessel from the European Union, the owner and our services that are quickly ready. We have the benefit. And I was already talking about the readiness of our services. The system of 72 port stations and 8 large port captains has no administrative capacity anyone alive, and that's about 300 employees of port captains of which not all are qualified to do inspections of the vessel. How can we examine all these vessels and transfer them to a Croatian register or an eyewitness? It doesn't exist. We can't talk about 10,000, we can talk about one small number. If we still forbid employment, new people, if we realize that these port captains are overloaded by other obligations, they already have an obligation of 4,000 charter ships that are there. This is some extra work. So I don't know how many such trained staff of the port captain's office should daily write out possible permits that the ship is technically correct that it can be translated into the Croatian Register of Ships or the Register of the yacht or the Register of Boats. These are the issues of practice and we will schedule there anyway and that is the fundamental problem of this law. And the other is the inequality against citizens living in the coastal area of the island, who have their own ships, and there are over 100,000 who have their own boats, which will continue to pay the VAT of 25% in the purchasing and payment system. That's why I told you at the beginning how I'm going through this law. It is a carrot for citizens of the European Union, but it is also an early punishment for the citizens of Croatia because 7 months before it introduces them, a pardon full 6 months before the introduction of a 5% VAT, and there is no hearing for them, but there is hearing for citizens who have money, who can pay something but we of course experience it in another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23147	Replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Boric, here I will replicate in this part of the start of your debate when you said that here after all, citizens finally admit that 25% is less than 23%. It's not true, citizens are fully aware, now they're aware of what 25% is and what's 23%. However, for two years, they were convinced that 23% of the disaster, the harrassor, the evil and I don't know what not by the Kukuriku coalition and offered them their foggy plan in which they did not say at all that they would raise VAT and now here comes this beating, it came right at the start of their government with 25% tax, and the citizens lost, all of these citizens lost confidence in politics and politicians. Citizens no longer trust anyone, absolutely no one because they fight, fight at this point for their survival, even for their lives and simply have the basis for living, for their children, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23149	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23150	Dear colleagues of the twilight, so here I agree with everything you've said, I'm going to add that we really don't have any analysis for this law. We don't know at all any of the figures that would back one of these decisions. Here's where I'm trying to find how much excise duty they're taking on the boats that are now being talked about here, and my colleague Klarin mentioned them, and SDP voted the same way back then. I remember those newspaper inscriptions, the yachts of Croatian rich people that everyone noticed, and they all had to be quickly taxed and corrected by great injustices. It was that time when excise duties were introduced. That's how it was. The SDP was in. Now they say they were against it, and they all voted yes, because it was towards the people at the time as best, towards the voters. On the other hand, he's talking about small shipbuilders and their problems. And it's fixed here and HDZ was for the same. Let's get those excises off. Okay. They were problems. What now? We are again creating a new division and a new problem and this is not going to be a good thing, because after this they have the right to ask the islanders, the people on the coast really whose government this is. Whether it takes care of us and our interests or we will only take care of the interests of the people of the EU. I think the task is to take care of us and that her task is to correct this kind of injustice. On equal terms, we should pay equally. But here, on equal terms, we will pay differently, and that is not justice, justice, and justice that everyone is talking about. But when we get into practice, there's nothing more to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23151	And the last in the debate of the Golden Komadin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23152	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I personally think that the tax press is no good to anyone at all. Of course, for citizens above all and rich countries as far as I can see, they have small taxes, bigger turnovers, higher consumption, and poor countries have bigger taxes, and that approach will not lead us far. It's what I'm experiencing with palitative measures in a situation where we have a deficit, a high duty, unfortunately a small production, a small number of employees. With us, unemployment moves, watch America when there was an election. There was a debate about I don't know 8% of the unemployed, so one candidate was shaking, another candidate. Unfortunately, we have much larger numbers. Unfortunately, it is not better in the rest of Europe, because the whole system is a little wrong. But okay, now I don't want much about the system. I think we're bringing some taxes with a delay and some are wrong. But there's no exculpation on either side of the assembly. They brought each other the wrong ones. Personally, I don't think it's a very good tax system that changes at all. The tax system where excise duties change every year. But that's the way it is with us. For example, the previous law is by me late. What would Royce say was, "Who's yawning, yaming"? And now we're gonna compare property from today back a couple of years. Those who have solved without cover and acquired the property you well know that money in countries like in transition is best laundered dirty money through real estate and that part is done in Croatia. And now we're going to explore the comparison of income and property. Otherwise, I agree with that. That should have been done a long time ago. And you know what you say when you get rich, they say the first million always have to steal. You didn't earn it. That's the way it is with those taxes. And Mr. Skegro when he introduced the tax he was, the first one VAT when he was picking up and I remember his statements well when people were yelling and yelling then he said what they were rebelling about these pensioners or something like that. Let them put their property into operation. Do you remember that statement? Then a gentleman called, I remember the radio downstairs, so he told Mr. Secretary in the middle of the ether that he had nothing to put into operation because of the mobile property having a prosthetic, and from the immovable one had what Denona said yesterday something there. Yeah, I mean, that's what the man on the air said, not so I think it's just a quote. That's how it was. So, otherwise, in this part of the tax, I totally agree that this is a good measure, that the tax on catering, that tourism is all equal to 10%, you will not, with this, increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and we can find a link between those fiscal registers and these 10%. 'Cause you remember some caterers said that if they reported everything they'd shut down the butig, it wouldn't be worth it. If his tax is lower, his traffic should be let's say the same or increase, and on the other hand he should actually give less to the state through tax. So there's no reason not to become legal or so to say this kind of tax that decreases to hospitality increases traffic and actually leads to more reductions in the gray zone than it has ever been before. And it increases definitely the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, because hospitality is an integral part of tourism. But not just tourism, but other parts. It's not all you said in tourism. However, I think we should really take care of these tax reforms to stick to that principle, and we signed them as a state a lot of avoidance conventions seem to be called double taxation. So I'm going to say one paradigm now, you might be a little surprised by this law that hasn't come yet, but it will come. There's more talk of him than there are of those who are in the Parliament, which is this one about the property tax. By my judgment, for example, it's a kind of double taxation. For example, I have a house I recently worked and built there. I've paid all living taxes by building materials, paying for work, paying for this, what, getting paid, paying for contributions. So what now? And now I'm going to pay my taxes again. Never mind. It's instead of a communal fee. I can take it as a fair measure, because I have something and someone else doesn't, so the one who doesn't have to pay, I have to pay. But to tell you the truth, I think it was unfair, at all, a communal fee. What's a communal fee? The communal fee is when you pay, when you're building your facility, you did pay a municipal contribution? Yes, it is. Because when you're paying for municipal water supplies, the waste of garbage everywhere is what I see some sort of development fee, for this, for the one that... you pay additional charges and parafiscal taxes in terms of utility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if I could, but unfortunately Croatia is too poor a country to do this, the tax of such a kind abolished, such a tax is not really necessary at all. But at this point he is just because what is in Croatia? In Croatia, there is an increasing number of citizens who do not have and cannot pay. And because of that sort of thing, actually, then those who still have something and can then have to pay and pay. And those who have a lot more have to pay and a lot more. And I said again if it were up to me, I'd have introduced a tax on extra profits and taxes on this system that brings money out of the country. It was never clear to me why neither the previous government nor her there nor my government, I think mine were all my governments, why they did not introduce taxes on because they say Europe would not accept it well. I mean I can't figure out if the money, if it's reinvested it's okay, but if the money's drawn into the country of origin through ownership of the legal entity and it's pulling out at a rate that's four times smaller or three times the work price it's actually made out of is actually inconceivable to me. But obviously the influences of banking circles are much stronger than we think the capital owners in the countries from which that capital comes and from which it came to Croatia. So the tax system I say definitely has to be fair. The excise charge thing, you know, if you actually want to buy it, you're going to pay extra for it, right? But that's why I don't understand some discussion of you fellows who spoke, even if I support your domestic... However, if I understand the part of these taxes correctly, it is simply an EU dictatorship, the rules we have signed to be the same story throughout Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, if we're going to be in Europe, then we have to make those rules. I don't mean to say that these rules are fair and fair and they're usually good for countries of production economy, not for countries that import like we import everything and everything from food to vessels. We thank God we can produce all the vessels that need Croatians and all the food that the Croats need, but we import far more than we produce. So we're having a bit of a disorder, and I doubt the tax system can fix that. This tax system is trying to correct certain individual cases, but I think that Croatia has to make sure that it has to have as long a stable tax system as rarely as possible because it is also a matter of legal certainty and citizens, but also investors and investors. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23153	Thank you. Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23154	Thank you very much, Vice President. I hope you don't take this ill-advised and I'm not speaking with a bad intention, but at one point you had to step down for health reasons. I hope you won't have to explain or leave the party for health reasons now. Otherwise, we would have been characterised as one disease by this speech of yours called pulsism and demagogy. And that's what those labels tell us very often about the kind of speech you've just given, and I fully support it. And this is when you mentioned the banking sector and the real estate tax only to leave out one part in that part of the discussion. What about those who, say, spent their assets in a nice life? Let's say casinos and things like that don't go too far now. What can we tax them, what real estate can we tax them? Nothing. So, the one who paid the way you said, who paid all the time all the possible taxes and the Djvenja's taxes still need to be further taxed. And at the beginning of your debate you said something that impressed me, you said VAT on tourism 10% down and that's the right move because the reduced tax will increase traffic and therefore there will be more funds. That's exactly the way of thinking while you were in the government you should've said crash VAT from 23 to 25, maybe you should've gone to 21. Maybe it would be real, resulting in increased consumption, so maybe income would be higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23155	You need to lift the shovel. Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23156	Well, fellow thanks for asking, I'm not sick, I'm left-handed. And I was sick and fortunately healed. ... I was just saying what I should do, but I also said that in a country that is in this situation economically simply some moves are unfortunately necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like this crew there raised to 23 so this crew raised to 25. But it can go until the donkeys are dead, it won't be able to go for long. Our only way out is not in savings. It saves when it's there, and it doesn't waste when it's gone. We can't spend now, but unfortunately we can't save because we don't have any. Therefore, we need to increase production, we need to increase, we do not have 200 thousand employees in Croatia for the next few years we will not get out of the crisis. So if you heard the Minister of Finance interest has become equal to the deficit, interest on debt. So we'll take the new annuity to replace interest, to increase interest only this year and then the next. We'll be Greece in two, three years. If a new wave of investment is not launched, there is no chance of a new wave of employment. I don't think I see what this is or what's sick, not sick. That's real. Therefore, only investment and that and private and public and these and they can get us out. And unfortunately, you watch out for Grandma with the cookies she passed quite quickly. Unfortunately, we were at war as investments walked across Europe. I remember the Torpedo company in Rijeka, what we're going to talk about is going to sell to someone or we're going to tell them now that we're going to sell to someone or we're going to give it to someone else, now there's no more, what I'm going to do, who I'm going to give to for one kuna. If we'd given it 20 years ago, instead of privatizing, we'd have done... the way, if we had done it then, not the law we put in, which workers would buy a factory with a bunch of halls and machines, that we then... [[You don't understand.]] We'd be doing engines for the MN today, and not Mercedes will open the plant in 10 countries, he opened up in Turkey, and I don't know where, what's somebody gonna open the plants in Croatia today, why? [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23157	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23158	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Komadina, the Prime Minister would say I didn't understand anything, or in SDP's terminology this could be understood under what is decisively possible, because listening to your debate was at least about the law, and it was more about the whole situation, but I caught those two, three moments of your observations and it was a little bit about how 10% that doesn't solve this bill than it is about the 3rd month, connected to the fiscal accounts, and then it's going to speed up the system, increase the number of consumers and the system will simply work out, and the state will pick up more, and neither will the prices be reduced, coffee will continue to be 7 kuna or 8, the juice will continue to be 15 as it is today and I don't know what it is, the hosts will put fiscal cash registers on us, but in the absence of tax and inspectors will take advantage of every moment that they have been able to deceive these fiscal registers, because it's are possible, although they don't need to do their good work, but God. But as for this part you were talking about in the end, I really must admit I didn't just understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23159	And the replica of Vice President Milorad Batinic. I'm sorry, the answer to the line of the Golden Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23160	Comrade Boric, I mean, objectively, your problem is that you didn't understand me. Yeah, it's important to me that most citizens understand me, so far she's understood me for 20 years, and at least I think I'm going to tell the truth you understand me well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23161	And the replica, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23162	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know how to turn around. I would like to refer briefly to my colleague Komadin when you mentioned the property tax, i.e. real estate tax in the context. Thank you, colleague Rajenović, thank you very much. You mentioned a municipal contribution and a communal fee, so it fits on the proposal of the representative body and the amount and quantities, etc. And they're used for purpose purposes. We are aware that as mayor I can claim for my city, and I believe that the same as the mayor you were well aware of were the amount of municipal contributions and municipal fees, so certainly the municipal contribution is not enough to build the total municipal infrastructure that you were talking about. The communal fee, I believe, settles in more than all units of local self-government up to 50, 60% if it succeeds in that part of the work done on the basis of the municipal fee, I agree, tax reform needs, but an integrated approach, complete solutions, and of course that each of us citizens, especially those in the executive government, have as little taxes as two, three, but also does not mean povertying the income of local self-government units. Mostly the same way that I say and how I advocate an integrated approach, a whole solution and above all to get some kind of calculation, some kind of math, then we can think far more competent and talk and decide about it. In principle, I understood what you were saying in your debate and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23163	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23164	Well, I mean, I agree with you, I agree with everyone who's the worst, but the communal fee or the utility tax to say so are citizens paying three times, paying as a municipal contribution, as a communal fee and paying as a dedicated part of the municipal price for development, whether the plumbing, this, that waste of garbage and construction, so in fact, it's another thing that all the three components are not enough, and then they're still jumping from Croatian water, so on and so on. I mean, it's because of what I said that we're poor, so we just have to, there's no other thing I said, we have to create conditions for more production and more employees that we can do more because I'm afraid we've reached the upper limit of grasping on this base that we have now. But that's a very special story.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23165	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. And here, and after the end of this point, I thank you for your debate. What to say is certainly not pleasant for any government when there is an increase in taxes, either by one percentage point, as did your government, or now for two of these percentage points as made by the Government of Zoran Milanovic, certainly in no case have the citizens clapped on you, not clapping on us in that part either, so it is simply the decisions that every government actually makes. We hope, and that is what we tried to say in our debate that we are working intensively on the restructuring of the economy, because we believe that, regardless of whether we comply with the directives or were not in line with the directives, we are aware that without strong incentives for the economy and that we will be as much on investment as we can next year, and what I said and on the reform of local administration, that reforms are simply ahead of us, this year has been a year of reform, tax reform, another one has been announced about real estate tax, and we are already discussing it, we will see what will ultimately be the outcome. What we're trying to say is that the simple situation as far as the increase is concerned is concerned is not pleasant to anyone. You said it would be good if we went from 23 to less, yes, if we had the space to calculate these 10 billion interest rates if the 1% point of the VAT is two billion kunas, 10 billion kunas to how much we have to pay the interest that we haven't paid, there should certainly be room for that VAT to fall from 23 to maybe a lower percentage of 18%, to 19%, and in that part we encourage consumption. But simple items in the budget are such that we have obligations to our pensioners, let's say a hole in the pension system of 16 to 19 billion kunas we simply have to close. It's a simple fact so we're always coughing everywhere we're getting some reform we actually need so it's very hard to manage with what you have. I agree that when we say that the countries of the environment have less rates and less press but certainly these countries do not have an average pension rate of 51 years as many as we do. It's a simple fact. That we have 51 years of average retirement rates and we're giving out 35 billion kuna for it. We simply have the system we have and we are trying it just like you and your economic recovery program tried to revive the economy, and we are doing the same thing now. We'll see how far we can make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23167	Thank you. And the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23168	Dear Deputy, I expected you to answer the question we asked that was very clear. The difference between the citizens of Croatia and the citizens of the EU, the 5% issue of their vessels and 25% of us for the purchase of our vessels. Are we going to call Stefan or Giovanni to buy a boat for ourselves? Tell us that we know today or that you intend to give up on it and equalise Croatian citizens with EU citizens. This is the most important question in this debate, and you will not answer because you yourself are aware that this is unfair. It's unfair. And now I have to call my friend Stefan to buy me a boat in Germany or Giovanni in Italy to buy a cheaper boat than I'll buy it in Croatia. I'm sorry, but it's a message from this law, and if that's okay with you. As Minister of Finance, let us not do so well, and I think you should answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23169	The reply to the replica of the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23170	Thank you very much. Let me answer that. Well, look, we heard two concepts today, so let's say one broader concept where we found a small shipbuilding and these introductions of excise duties, suspensions, etc. You went with the concept you went with, your colleagues actually argued which was the government's goal in which part of the collection of revenue. What can I tell you? In that part, we feel that we should take advantage of the opportunity to have greater income in that part. You go with the amendment to be against it it's your legal legitimate right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23171	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23172	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 203. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club and MP Branko Hrg. I ask the Government's representative to plead. First amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23173	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the applicant did not state that the implementation of this amendment proposing a reduction in the rate for fresh meat from 25% to 5% would result in a reduction in the revenues of the state budget from value added tax as well as the amount of this reduction and no sources were proposed to compensate for the reduction of planned revenue from value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23174	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23175	Your Honor, Mr. President and Deputy Minister, I am in no way pleased with the refusal of this amendment, especially with the explanation you gave. In fact, the proposal to lower the value added tax rate from 25% to 5% for meat is proposed precisely in the context of the fact that the rate of bread, milk and basic living foods will increase. Which means that this base will increase revenue for the state budget. It was precisely the purpose of this proposal on fresh meat that, in a profitable neutral way on this side, the increase from milk bread, and the reduction from meat would provide benefits for Croatian citizens who would have to bear the burden of increasing VAT on these basic provisions of life. And therefore, we continue to believe that it was necessary to find a way to make this burden easier for them and without any revenue on the budget. The more the increase in these zero rates was arranged to take place on the day of 1.07, the day of entry into the EU. And you've been introducing it six months earlier, which means that this and the argument to lower the meat rate are even bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23176	Are you asking for a vote? All right. Please make a statement. Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Please make your statement on Amendment No. The second respected representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23177	Thank you. As with the previous amendment, it is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23178	Thank you very much. The honourable representative is not in the hall, so we will plead with the vote. Who is for the amendment of a respected representative of Branko Hrg that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour and 36 votes against the adopted Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax is in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23179	And we move to the next point that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 199 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments. The Law on Payments is amended and complemented by the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 5 July 2012 on the obligation to comply with the law on general administrative procedure. The Law on Payments therefore deletes provisions against the purpose of the ZUP and provisions which prescribe the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, following a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in July 2012 on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the Penal Code, the names of groups of criminal offences which do not comply with the names of the new Penal Code, which enters into force on 1.1.2013, have been deleted and the criminal provisions have been deleted, the description of which corresponds to the description of the offence in order to avoid overlapping. Furthermore, the corrections subsidized by HBOR were also made as a result of the application of the Payment Law in practice. Indeed, the practice has shown that the definition of a good reputation that is a prerequisite for granting a licence to provide payment services is inadequate because a good reputation cannot be predetermined but should be established and each individual case based on clearly defined criteria. Therefore, the assessment criteria are defined which reduces the risk of granting a licence for the provision of payment services. A good reputation is assessed for holders of a qualified share, members of the administration and director of the paying institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23181	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. We're going to a club debate. The first is SDP club and colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23182	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister... esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] So, as the Deputy Minister pointed out, the need for these amendments and the addition of the Law on Payments directly stems from the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the obligation to comply with specific laws with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the decision to bring the infringement legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the new Penal Code. When we talk about harmonising the Law on Payments with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, we are thinking mainly of changes in some of the procedures of the Croatian National Bank which were contrary to the Law on Administrative Procedure, so there will be no more subsidical application of the Law on Administrative Procedure in relation to the specific provisions of the Law on Payments, but ZUP will apply to all administrative procedures in the conduct of payment traffic. Furthermore, there is no longer a possibility that the Croatian National Bank will decide in its procedures without oral debate because it was contrary to the ZUP provisions. There is no more also the Institute of Finality of the Croatian National Bank's solution. Now this institute is being arranged according to the ZUP. There is no longer a possibility that the Croatian National Bank, at the request of the party, will change the solutions to the business surveillance of the paying institution because it was also contrary to the ZUP. When it comes to the harmonisation of the Law on Payments with the provisions of the Penal Code, it is meant to delete the infringements of the Law on Payments relating to the management of accounts and the keeping of accounting documents and accounting documents. These provisions are simply excessive because they are governed by the Penal Code. In addition to this alignment with the ZUP and the KZ, some changes in this law are the result of the knowledge that has been made in the application of the Law on Payments. Therefore, the practice is the result, and this practice was the reason for certain suggestions made by the Croatian National Bank as bodies responsible for granting authorisation for providing payment services. Therefore, the Croatian National Bank has suggested redefining certain conditions that must be met when granting a licence to carry out payment traffic. In particular, the word for assessing a good reputation as one of the conditions to be met by a member of the administration, i.e. the Executive Director of the Payments Institution, the holder of a qualifying share or another person for whom the Payment Law has been designated. Thus far, the concept of good reputation has been defined in advance and in general for all cases. These changes must now establish a good reputation for each individual case and on the basis of clearly defined criteria and will in fact enable it to be more quality, to be better selected persons in payment institutions. So let's conclude. The point is, I would say purely about technical law, technical changes and additions, and as such should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23183	Thank you very much. It's the HDZ Club and counterpart Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23184	Thank you very much. Dear vice presidents and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to this Assembly with a proposal to make the same amendments and adopt them immediately. However, before I refer to the amendment proposal and the supplement, I would refer to the existing Law on Payments, which was adopted in 2009 and which is applicable, in full application of 1 January 2011, so the question arises why do I want to refer to this law? Well, it's precisely why I come directly from the economy, from the economy. I'm a new person in politics. I'm a parliamentary representative for the first time. However, working directly in the economy and in the economy, I feel the need for this existing law that was passed in 2009 to be commended as an extremely good law, a law that is written to the extent that those who are obliged to apply it. Why? Because we have some other laws that, unfortunately, are very difficult to apply, because they are written in a two-way way to point out some of the actions that need to be carried out, so it comes to some of the laws that I primarily think about the whole package of tax laws to the situation that in one way certain provisions are interpreted by the tax authority, in another way by the taxpayer, and yet through some of the instructions and opinions published by the Ministry of Finance, some third way is given the application of certain rules that are listed in the tax laws. There's... the example that this is the case, and that is why I felt the need to make it clear and public that the Law on Payment Transport, which was adopted in 2009, is extremely well written, is written in a way that everyone, all natural persons working in the legal persons of the Republic of Croatia, is using it casually, lightly, expediently and accurately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I've never in my practice had a situation where any of my colleagues from the economy and my colleagues complained that this law was difficult to apply, that they had problems implementing it, but that they were all commending it. Of course, this draft law amending the current Government in today's debate also amends in a positive way certain provisions of the current Law on Payments and only the part that needed to be completed or amended, in order to comply with the EU's legal regulations and regulations. Therefore, I must also point out that this amendment, which is also mentioned, is good, and I will again point out that the entire Payments Law prescribes payment traffic between all payment participants from the payer issuing the order to the one receiving the money in such a way that these transactions take place within a very short period of time. And assuming that and by law it is possible that individual legal entities of a natural person should be based on Article 18. The Income Tax Act equal to tradesmen and legal persons, companies carrying out economic activity have the possibility to open gyro accounts in several credit institutions and to manage their resources on different deposit bases. Why is it good for the economy? So precisely for the reason why the interval is shortened from the moment of sending the financial resources from the payer to the moment when the recipient receives them. Because if they have an open account in the same deposit box, then that money travels, and it even happens one second 2. Of course, in situations where a gyro-account is opened in another credit institution, so if the recipient of financial resources and the payer of financial resources do not have a gyro-account in the same depositary basis, then it may take 2, 3 hours for the money to travel from one entity to another. This law prescribes the way in which payment is regulated in the Republic of Croatia, then prescribes who has the right to run that payment traffic, prescribes the ways and conditions in which payment is carried out, regulates the area of transaction accounts and transaction orders between credit institutions, regulates the way in which the payment system and the institutions operating the payment system in the Republic of Croatia are established. Of course, the law covered all the elements that were necessary, and in order to avoid any doubt or possible actions that are undesirable in such an important system as the payment system in one country, only the payment service provider which has registered this as the basis of its activities in the register of commercial courts may do so among other things. In order to be able to register as a constitutional activity, the payment service provider in the Republic of Croatia must predate the approval of the CNB and, in addition, the authorisation to register must be paid in financial means in cash and share capital. It must also provide for a certain amount of guarantee capital required as a guarantee that the payment service provider will have from where to carry out its obligations to the creditors, which will arise... while carrying out its registered activity. The legislator made sure that any irregularities were avoided, so in that sense it was positively stated that each payment service provider in the Republic of Croatia must have, among other things, an audit report for each business year, so it must make an audit of the basic financial reports, revise them and consolidate them and, within a very short period of time, for a period of 15 days after the audit report has been delivered to them by the CNB or, if it is not within that deadline, when they are obliged to carry out it, it is the end of the 4th month of the current financial year for the previous financial year. And these provisions show us how high-quality, transparent and positive this law is. Of course the entire payment system that takes place in the Republic of Croatia controls the CNB and it works well. I will never repeat in the economy I had no situation to complain that someone had problems with this rejection of these transactions, and we also know that by joining the EU and before the CNB, it had to keep the EU informed of all the approvals it granted to those who were granted authorisation to make payment. It is also an obligation to publish on your websites. Therefore, with this proposal to amend and supplement the proposed Government of the Republic of Croatia, it removes some of the shortcomings that have arisen as a result of EU entry and harmonisation with their legislation. Among other things, this proposal changes or complements the concept of good reputation. What's a good reputation? Under the existing law, it was arbitrary and of course he had every opportunity to interpret it only in a familiar way. This amendment and addition clearly states which criteria will assess whether a person has a good reputation or does not have a reputation or, among other things, the CNB has been given the authority to ask the competent institutions for confirmation of whether a natural person has been wrongly or criminally convicted. Among other things, the basis of that certificate and such an indicator, which is also a credible document, will be able to assess precisely whether it is a person with a good reputation or a person under the questionnaire. Furthermore, it will also be taken into account where the person concerned worked in her previous working life and what the results of the work have been achieved and, in that sense, I think that the amendment and the supplement is positive and commendable. Furthermore, in the existing law there were also elements where the same thing was required in several items, and for example it was required to be delivered to the CNB when requesting authorisation for the provision of payment services in the Republic of Croatia and a list of individual natural persons, end shareholders or final shareholders with all elements such as name and name, home address, residence etc. which is essentially unnecessary because in one other paragraph of the same law, it is clear and unequivocally stated that, with a request for approval, the CNB shall also be provided with an excerpt from the Stockholder Register, i.e. an excerpt from a share book or a share book. And with these changes and additions themselves, and it was eliminated because it was too high in the existing law. Furthermore, in these amendments, we also come to the conclusion that certain elements that were in the existing, currently applicable and valid Law on Payments, which had infringements but had been defined as elements of the Criminal Law, and since the new Penal Code was adopted in 2011 and this was to be harmonised and, of course, was to be deleted from the existing Law on Payments, so that these amendments and additions were included by the Government. And that's why I think it's just as much as the law that was passed in 2009 was extremely well written, transparent and positive, and it's also written in that direction that these amendments and additions to the existing law were made, so I think this will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23185	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23186	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HNS club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments with the final proposal of the Law. I will not repeat what the predecessors have said on behalf of the clubs, repeating this technical part of the harmonisation of the law that is one of the ones that is needed for the law to be as I like to say life, enforceable, especially today when we have a lot of problems with the harmonisation of various laws, the laws that we have aligned with the European Union, and in fact we did not match them. What I would like to say on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to point out on the issue of the Law on Payments, that it is one of the most important laws for the functioning of the economy at all, especially the economy in conditions when we enter the European Union, in which foreign companies will simply be able to set up their branches in Croatia, work on the Croatian market, and this is an extremely good message for those who are preparing to join the European Union to establish and work on the Croatian market. Because the very function of the Payment Law governing payment services, payment service providers, payment service providers, payment service users' information obligations in terms of providing services and payment services, as well as other rights and obligations relating to the provision and use of payment services, transaction accounts, execution of payment transactions between credit institutions, establishment, operation and supervision of payment institutions and the establishment, operation and supervision of payment systems is crucial to trust in the system that is in the Republic of Croatia. One of the extremely good and I also believe in the future the situation with the laws that come as a proposal from the Government to the Parliament is the proposal which is the result of the practice here in the application of the Law on Payments, and in essence of the knowledge that has been found by the so far application of the Law on Payment Transport which has been praised by colleagues, which means that what is the market, what is life, what is the practice of changing, to be built on, to ensure the absolute flow and quality of the laws for users of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. This term is a good reputation which is already mentioned but I must stress on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club it is good to say that it cannot be, that it is not clearly defined and that it must be clearly defined by the basis of certain criteria. We thus ensure the discretionary law of the CNB that it is justified to achieve greater flexibility in assessing the good reputation of a person, which is an extremely sensitive issue given the extended scope of criminal offences and violations taken as a criterion, we can make sure that we are free to say justice in the evaluation and once again say transparency and attractiveness for all those who want to work in the Republic of Croatia, do their payment traffic, develop and invest with all those measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia contributes. I just have to point out that even in today's debate in changes and additions to the General Tax Law where insurance has been provided, i.e. ensuring that e-mail can mean that all legal entities working in the economy must communicate with the reports, ensure one speed and efficiency, one exceptional savings in the delivery of reports related to the economy, so that we can safely say that the Republic of Croatia and the law, the amendment of the Law on payment and the General Tax Law can certainly be at the top of European countries in the functioning and operation and ensuring the conditions of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23187	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23188	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 199. The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 119 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23189	And we move to the final point tonight - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on support for agriculture and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 207. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23190	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The direct payments system in agriculture in 2013 must be entirely identical... which has been used in the EU to give the Republic of Croatia the opportunity to withdraw significant funds from EU funds, i.e. the EU budget guaranteed by the Accession Treaties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the above, the Croatian Parliament adopted in October of this year a Act on support for agriculture and rural development, which includes the arrangement of the direct payment system in the period from 2013 to the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. The law was published in the National Journal, number 120/12. The European Commission submitted its subsequent statement on the bill after the Law on Support for Agriculture and Rural Development was adopted in the Croatian Parliament. In its statement, the European Commission warns that certain provisions of the law relating to the determination of the value of direct payments granted from the national reserve should be further aligned with the rules of the common EU agricultural policy. Therefore, in line with the additional consultations with the European Commission, it was necessary to include amendments and additions to the law in order to remove possible concerns about the compliance of the Agricultural and Rural Support Act itself with EU rules governing direct payments in agriculture, in particular those which had to be amended in view of the accession of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments to the law are fully in line with EU rules, thus creating legal preconditions for the completion of the process of accreditation of the Agency for the Payment of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The questions that are governed by this law and the consequences of the amendments and additions to this law are as follows. Therefore, a further defined production year, the financial discipline procedure for the share of RS financing from the state budget, should the funds planned in the budget be less than the share of the Republic of Croatia in the envelope for FP direct payments. The establishment of the 2011 reference year for the determination of the value of the rights allocated in 2013 from the national reserve and the specific payment entitlements from the national reserve shall retain their status only in the event of the transfer of the right of succession. The harmony we had to make. It was made in two rounds of consultation at a very high level in the Commission itself. We have been given their testimony that it is now fully in line with EU legislation and I propose that this respected House adopt this amendment and supplement law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23191	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. We're going to a club debate. The first is the SDP club and colleague Marija Vukbratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23192	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to point out that the SDP club will adopt this proposal for a law on support for agriculture and rural development. Croatia's agriculture and agricultural policy is almost joined by the EU's Republic of Croatia and during the period during which we have committed to align legislation with EU legislation. This law falls within the set of laws adjusting and harmonising with the common agricultural policy system and the rules on the use of European agricultural funds, as well as the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. A month ago, more precisely on October 17th, we also discussed the proposal for a law on support for agriculture and rural development. This very important law regulates the conditions and procedures for the allocation of direct payments to agricultural holdings and their height since 2013, given that the applicable law regulated direct payments at the end of 2012. Direct payments include: direct payments, payments in extremely sensitive sectors in the transitional period of three years following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. The level of direct payments for production 2012 shall then be adjusted to comply with the amounts of support covered by the negotiations. Also rural development measures from 2013 covering national rural development measures and EU pre-accession aid to agriculture and rural development, which will apply by the end of 2013, and rural development measures from 2014 in line with EU rules for the new programming period from 2014 to 2020. It regulates state support for agriculture and rural development as regards the rules for granting support outside the CAP, which are allocated from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia or from the local budget of the unit of local self-government, municipalities and cities and units of the regional self-government or county, also inspection and administrative oversight of law enforcement. Of the 119 present in this Croatian Parliament for Law, 114 MPs voted. However, after the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament, the European Commission sent a subsequent statement to it and made some remarks. The reference to the non-compliance of the rules of the CAP in determining the value of the direct payments granted from the national reserve. The amendments and additions now propose will remove any concerns about compliance with EU rules and will fully comply with these rules. The following issues shall be covered by these amendments. It is precisely defined the production year which is identified as the calendar year how it works in the EU's direct payment system. In the case where the planned funds in the state budget are less than the share of the Republic of Croatia in the direct payment envelope, it is more clearly defined that proportional reductions apply only to the Republic of Croatia's funds and are attributed when unrealised funds will be returned to the national reserve. It shall be established in 2012 as the reference year. The transfer of specific payment entitlements from the national reserve for sensitive sectors in livestock farming is prescribed for users without acceptable hectares only by succession, and the possibility of granting an additional premium for sheep and goats is added, and defines exactly who can obtain it and how large it is. Since we talked about a similar law a month ago, we said everything about it, the parent committee had an amendment that the government had accepted, and I won't be too long about it. I just want to say that the proposal for this law changes minimally because it is partially intervened in only 6 articles by the adoption of the law by the end of 2012, the precondition for the completion of the accreditation of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development and the implementation of payments in 2013 so its adoption is extremely important, and the SDP club will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23193	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Club and counterpart Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23194	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are again after 40 days again discussing something we've already discussed. Dear Doctor Vukbratovic would have said very briefly, because she said that we discussed recently 40 days ago or that you even said the date correctly, if I'm not wrong when we discussed and that there's no need to debate much more about this law. However, I think we should open the right debate today, but here, a similar situation, a similar time for Croatian public presence is important because we are on the TV max on the parliamentary channel, we are also saying on some B.net that the Croatian public now has a chance to listen to this debate or I would say passing an additional exam from what we have received an insufficient grade. And here we are, thank God, an advocate who still and at this late hour are in the mood for discussion. So here I have to tell you, and at the very beginning, that I am at the debate that was held 40 days ago, warning that the law, in my humble opinion and in my own experience, which I believe I am still in this negotiation process from 2004 until the conclusion of the negotiations, I said that the HDZ Club would accept this bill, but I asked Mr. Minister and asked him if they had fully taken advantage of this with the European Commission? So we got a conviction that everything was compromised, that everything was right. And of course when there was a vote and there was a result, of 119 present, 114 and of course HDZ representatives raised their hand for a simple reason because we believe that this is something that is necessary. And it was necessary and now it is necessary to pass this law for a simple reason because it is something that remains in the act of harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the EU or a law that ends the reform of the complete incentive system in the Republic of Croatia and of course we raised our hand. And then unfortunately we see that we were, I have to say manipulated, that we were kind of misinformed and that we raised our hand for something that didn't get a passing grade. And now, and perhaps to discuss this well at this time, maybe it's good that the public, the public presence is what it is, because I think we might be a little uncomfortable to discuss this again, that we might be blushing, because in some way we, too, have shown one way, we would say ignorance when we have accepted something that is not part of it and something that is not part of the legal gain, which the ministry very soon after the law was passed, got a negative shower, but we've got dear friends representatives and we, too, because we've given our vote, especially, believe every honor to that five people who recognize that this law is not what they should be and haven't given their voice. Congratulations. Those of us who gave our vote should now also be ashamed of themselves in some way. But here's the thing, once a man's been deceived, he gets more careful, and I'm going to say the same thing now, unfortunately, and because of the need for this law to be passed, it was supposed to be adopted as planned in the 10th month. Now here is the end of the 11th month, and once we have passed this law thoroughly again, it seems to me that not a day here today is all the way it has been negotiated on the one hand, and on the other hand that it is not in line with the common agricultural policy and because of who is once burned, it will now be more cautious and the representatives of the HDZ Club will be restrained by the adoption of this law, with the best intention of making their contribution and to help end the process of harmonisation in the area of agriculture with the acquis of the EU. I also have to say that this is quite unserious to me. If we'd played with something far more important, had the law been passed, had the law not been passed, had the law been harmonised, but unfortunately they have their own repercussions. Repercusions are part of the need, accreditation of the paying agency. The paying agency is an institution that implements, where we must have an accredited paying agency, so that we can withdraw funds and distribute it to our EU farmers, and we are very close. We're about to enter 2013. Very soon the 1.7 will come, and very soon will come the beginning of 2014 when the money should come, the 25% for 2013 from direct, direct payments. Yes, it was lost in the accreditation process for a month, and it was lost on the wrong assumptions for the drafting of accreditation procedures, which were also warned by the European Commission. But I'm going to warn you, Mr. Minister, that right now there's an extremely large responsibility on you. I don't know how much responsibility you're aware of. But you're the one who needs to be accredited by the paying agency. On you, I believe it's not easy for you now. It is not easy not to carry out accreditation and get into a situation that 1.7. In 2013, we become a member of the EU but to be something like Bulgaria and Romania and not to withdraw funds from the agricultural funds on the one hand. On the other hand, it is a responsibility, whether to accredit something that is not ready for accreditation and which can be identified by the European Commission’s auditor, and then penalise, and then ultimately lead to the state’s having to return the funds it received from the European Commission’s funds, and I think it is at present the hardest for you. We want to help you. We are at our disposal, we also want to help with our experience, but if you want something I can tell you from experience, which is, never try small fraud to the European Commission. They know exactly our system, they know the situation in our legislative framework, and they know the situation in our paying agency, and don't put yourself in a position to maybe try to contradict them because of some current benefits, try to misrepresent them and present them as if that's what they're looking for because then we turn out to be naive. Then the consequences can be even worse. Therefore, I warn you once again that you are taking great care of that work, but also, unfortunately, I must say that you also have a very bad situation in the ministry itself, you have a situation that part of the people who made the biggest contribution to the negotiation process, unfortunately is no longer with you in the ministry, that they have sought other jobs precisely for reasons, because they held that in the right way everything they have done in this period has not been valorized. They weren't party people, they weren't politicians, they were people practitioners, people knowers of the situation, and so once again, I wouldn't want to be in your skin right now, but once again, it's not your skin issue, it's not your question, it's not your party's issue. It's something that's above all that, it's a question of Croatian agriculture. We see, yesterday we saw what the possibilities of the national budget are when it comes to agriculture. We see that there has been a drastic reduction in the agricultural budget, mainly for subsidies, that in two years from 2011 to the proposal, from the implementation of the 2011 budget, it is not a story but what was realized, to the proposal that was given for 2013 on subsidies on agriculture that the reduction is almost a billion and 500 million kuna or 40%. If we are not yet realised by the European Commission, and we are in the common market without any customs protection, how can our farmer be expected to achieve the same competitiveness as farmers who have different conditions, who have significantly higher direct payments and who have opportunities and use rural development funds? Unfortunately, then, our farmers will not be able to do so, they will not be able to continue to exist because simply their competitiveness will be significantly reduced. And so here's why I want to add my contribution, but a constructive contribution in terms of if you have any need for certain suggestions, we are standing at your disposal, but once burned, the second time is more cautious, and now we're not going to give him any support for this bill. Your majority and that's the legal law will probably vote, but I'm afraid it wouldn't happen again for some maybe less than 20, and I'm not going to be 20, because now we've only got two weeks of work, and then we're just going to start working again somewhere from 15.1. so that somewhere in a month or 40 days, we don't have any changes in the amendments, addition and addition of the Agricultural Support Act and Rural Development. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23195	Thank you. The replica of your exposure has Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23196	Thank you very much. I have to use this vast media space that I didn't even know existed at this point until counterpart Cobankovic announced all these powerful channels that carry us. I would refer to what you were saying about the procedure itself, or not to repeat the same story. I must admit it surprised me that you were quite gentle, that you were as much as possible, not to say friendly, and in my opinion, this lets me know that this government is completely unprepared even in some part I can say incompetent. Some of the elements are, I have to admit that, at a level, I don't know, it's at primary school level. We have a situation, say fiscal cash registers, and then we're asked by customers to send messages, report them, and then we have a general tax code that's required to report criminals. Well, then tomorrow we'll hear, we've got the Defense Act that requires that one of the others doesn't know what to tell. On the other hand, yesterday, we were listening to the rhetorical acrobatics of our Prime Minister transferring to us, let you decide from the opposition whether you are for reforms, when we talk about the village, or whether you are to retain the existing state of encouragement. The incentives were abnormal, they were enormously large, they gave no results. Why didn't they give the results? Because they were misused. Well, I don't think that's serious. If they're misused and they're known to be misused, why, then, there are all kinds of inspections, there are all kinds of organs that need to determine, where, what, who solve that case. Now let's go because they're wrong, incorrect, unfair, unlawfully used, let's cut it all up. I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23197	Thank you very much. Replication response, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23198	Thank you very much. Oh, here, you say I was gentle. I was warning, I wanted to show some co-operation and I was convinced that it was negotiated with the European Commission. On two or more occasions, I repeated my inquiry and through a replica of the final presentation of Mr. Minister, again I asked and asked if he had not responded to my inquiry regarding, was it negotiated with the European Commission? But here we are. And that's why a man burns himself once and if he gets up, I'd say more cautious. But I must say, you mentioned yesterday's presentations from Mr. Prime Minister, so to Mr. Secretary, I must say, the reforms in agriculture have been completed, there are no new reforms. They may, unfortunately, be reforms to the worse, but the reforms of alignment with the common agricultural policy, the reforms of the support system, have been completed. This is the final step of what was negotiated, what was for 2011 and 2012 is now only applicable from 2013 onwards. No new reforms in agriculture, no new ways of paying off incentives, you know. On the other hand, Croatia was not a record player in the incentives. Croatia came in 2011 to 3 billion 670 million kunas of total subsidies, meaning both the first pillar and the second pillar, and our overall framework that we negotiated with the European Commission is cca 750 million euros, or if I count well, about 5 billion and 600, 700 million. So, for our maximum, what we're going to get from the Eurospeke Commission, is for two billion more, our agriculture will get 2 billion more than it came to the maximum in 2011. So we're not at those amounts yet, we're at those amounts that we're going to come to. The European Commission has given us nothing more than to give farmers to other European Union countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23199	Thank you. Next replica, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23200	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Cobankovic, I really wouldn't have said in your line, but I wouldn't have said in your speech that maybe the minister went with the intention of cheating 40 days ago or anyone here in the assembly room, but that he wouldn't have cheated on the European Union either. I think the problem is just what he believed, maybe those people who told him it was all negotiated, so it's up to him to solve the situation in his own backyard, in his own house. And repetition is the mother of wisdom, as they say, and here it is now our school, and on the other hand when we talk about voting that 114 MPs out of 119 voted for this law, all of us, who sat in this assembly 40 days ago, still remember it alive, that we were just talking about it, because in this assembly when we had a package of agriculture laws, we sat a total of 12 parliamentary deputies together with our President of the Parliament and the minister who defended all these packages. There are 15 of us tonight, I see you counting, so tonight there are 15 of us together with the vice president, and the minister again, here, defends you, defends his amendments to the law, and here we need to recognize it, and I repeat it again, and I think that some of the things that are said about this speaker and what the weight of the ministerial responsibility is, and then they show that it is not, I think it remains for the minister to sort out why someone in his ministry told him something was solved, and it's not because he defended what he heard. You said it was a negative rain, yes. But I think it's more of a negative rain to us Assembly deputies, and that's what happens to us in continuity, we vote when conditions come to pass, and we're not in the debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23201	Thank you very much. I don't think the rain and the rain can be negative and positive. Answer, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23202	Thank you very much. Yeah. There's more of us today. I said at the beginning of my presentation, the presence of the public is present through these two television houses that have a direct transmission and we here are working, we will continue to do what I once again want to do. This is too much and too important for the Republic of Croatia, too much and too important for Croatian agriculture and we are at our disposal, we are at our disposal to Mr. Minister if there are any needs, we are prepared to help him with the resolution. I think this is an over-the-counter, super-political and superdedeological question, and maybe I've been a little sharp, you know, in my presentation, but I want to point out one more time. I stand at my disposal, we are ready with our experience and our knowledge of help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23203	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDSSB Club and counterpart Igor Čeek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23204	Honored vice presidents, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatia's agricultural policy and Croatian agriculture are in a period during which final adaptation and harmonisation with the common agricultural policy and rules of application of the European Agricultural Funds is needed in order to achieve the recent accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. This applies primarily to the direct payments system in agriculture in 2013 must be fully identical to that applicable to the EU in order to obtain the possibility of withdrawing significant funds from EU funds guaranteed by an access contract already since the year of entry. In accordance with the above, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Agricultural Support Act in October 2012, a rural development involving the management of the direct payment system in the period from 2013, or the accession of Croatia to the EU. The law was published in NN No. 120/2012. The European Commission has submitted its statement on the draft law after the Law on Support for Agriculture and Rural Development has been adopted in the Croatian Assembly, which warns that certain provisions of the laws relating to the determination of the value of the assigned original payments from the national reserve do not comply with the rules of the common EU agricultural policy. Therefore, in accordance with the additional consultations with the European Commission, it was necessary to include these in the amendments and additions to the law, in order to remove certain concerns about the harmonisation of the Act, to support agriculture and rural development with EU rules governing direct payments in agriculture, particularly those to be changed for the sake of the accession of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law will fully comply with EU rules. I think we've said enough with this first page. We said everything, as far as we do back-to-back, and we do not solve Croatia's problems in Croatia's agriculture. What happens to Croatian agriculture and Croatian village? In two years, 40% of the funding foreseen for agriculture. What happened to the damage to the natural disasters that hit Slavonia, Baranja, which affected all agricultural producers? What about reducing the number of family farms? Is this how we prepare for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU? I'm afraid, Mr. Minister, with all due respect, yes. As the assembly today, or tonight, looks like, the Croatian village appears to be empty and devastated. Dear Minister, you have assumed a very responsible function in a very complicated portfolio. Will you be able to unwrap a ball of trouble in which Croatian agriculture is located? I'm sure not according to what I've shown so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23205	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. She's the only one who checked in with a colleague named Gyurjitsumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23206	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. We're here tonight. It's 8:00. It seems to me, that agriculture is indeed the last hole in the play, but perhaps it is, but certainly Mr. Cobankovic was quite right. It's a good thing we're here tonight and so many more people aren't listening and watching. Dear Mr. Minister, today we are back with the same law. I told you last time on the board that we don't want to humiliate you or humiliate you as a minister, or the Ministry of Agriculture, and at least we don't want to hurt farmers. We've been proving to be responding to your SDP MPs calling us, I don't know why, because of some strange procedure that doesn't make any sense to anyone. But here it is, the Ministry of Agriculture from 2004 to 2010, so in 2006, negotiations started, these were the hardest negotiations, indeed the hardest, with three chapters, 11,12 and 13. Mr. Minister, in the ministry, there were really people working on this negotiating team who weren't partying, and colleagues and colleagues were not partying, and believe me, there were a lot of objections from the party why I had ours, but no, politics was not ours, we want experts. Mr. Minister, will you, given the way this law has returned now, come back because there is no communication between you and your associates? That would be very good, and personally I'll ask you a question, constituency at the ministry. Maybe it looks like this now. We're not looking forward to it, and we're not crazy, absolutely not. Why should we be? To get to this law at all very often you used to speak in your performances and here it is in front of the budget that a lot of mistakes were made in the ministry's work, to look for skeletons, if nothing was done, so just let us come to this today, what Mr. Cobankovic told you, and I will support it, too, we will be restrained precisely because of what is happening today. Since 2004, we have been intensively increasing support in agriculture. From 1 billion and 600 million to 3 billion 670 million in 2011. Supports related, among other things, to direct payments, to the rise of permanent deposits, to investments, for example Some thousand new modern farms have been built in this sector. All of this was in the capacity of the competitiveness of agricultural products, e.g. The production of milk from 530 million litres or kilograms as now spoken at 680 million litres has been raised, so the increase is 150 million liters, and as far as Chapter 12 is concerned, I have to tell you the great success of 91.9% of the EU is in agreement with milk. It's big and it's good, it's great, and it's great, and it's for congratulating the percentage thanks to our fellow veterinarians and then the veterinary administration. Ten thousand new acres of vineyards were planted, so with 20 grand today we have 30 grand. Of the 10,000 new ones, we have about 10,000 new modern orchards. But it wasn't just thinking about it, it was thinking about where and how that fruit would be kept, so it's just as co-financed to build a new 12 ULO refrigerator capacity of about 40,000 tons. Five thousand acres of new olive groves have been planted. In parallel, the agricultural product market was also regulated, the co-financed purchase of mandarins, olive oil, grapes. All this created an assumption on the one hand, an increase in production, and on the other hand, farmers were provided with a legal ransom and marketing, and this was also reflected through the VAT from which both the budget and the state of the Republic of Croatia benefited. The results of such a agricultural policy are visible, e.g. Mandarin. Since 2003, when the total production was 20,000 tonnes, there have been problems with placement and marketing, among other things, as in many of our agricultural products. However, this example was first co-financed in 2004 alone and over 90% of the total crop passes through legal channels of marketing but is also increasing production. Today, in 2011, the ransom was 69 thousand tonnes, somewhere in 2012, it is estimated to be 70,000 tonnes. The financing of such a buy-in has increased competitiveness this time of domestic mandarins, however, but also exports are now exporting 50,000 tonnes of what is quantified but also financially positive on the external trade balance. At the same time, the system of the common agricultural policy was adapted, and this law that we are talking about again is the end of this one reform of the system. What we've been saying about Mr. Minister's budget, and I've only given you this little hint is that indeed every subsidy and every incentive through this year has been spent only on the benefit of the farmer, and precisely because of this sort of thing. And there's something else I'd rush you to say, I don't know how much you know, I know some people who are working right now, and I know how to do it. You should get to know Mr. Minister a little more, and a little less try to trust people who have no experience. For example, one very important news for all of us, and it did not come now and because of the change of government, but it came just because of Chapter 12 which. is so negotiated, because of all the actions that were done before, which is, for example, Croatia has been allowed to export pigmeat and game meat to the EU since 2 October. I don't have enough time here to talk about everything, I won't tell the achievements, but in all this we could brag about here, once again, Mr. Minister, I won't be long, it's too late, the reference labs are in sync. It's done a lot of things, and don't blame the former government or the former minister anymore that you, if they were guilty of not knowing, of a budget where you couldn't fight, you couldn't, you just couldn't, you didn't, I don't blame you. You probably didn't have any political support, and I don't blame you for that. It's not your fault, you might be in a hurry, but in what way will these envelopes be used, Mr. Minister, it's a matter of these kind of support. And I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues who are really in it, and I'm going to tell you now that we finally start talking about this agriculture in a way that we don't spit on everything that's good to point out something that we think is good. And in the end, it turns out he didn't. And as the former minister said, and current representative Cobankovic, we are all at the HDZ Club ready to help, and especially probably the people who worked on it, but this time we won't raise for, no matter what we've been fighting for, and no matter what the hardest, most complicated chapters are negotiated, which is 11,12 and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23207	Thank you. Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23208	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Sumrak, I can't agree with your beginning of the debate at all, and I'm telling your party colleague, Cobankovic. It's not good that it's this time of day and there's so few of us. No, not that anyone would enjoy the result, with the consequences of this, is not the goal, it's absolutely irrelevant. We're sending a message, unfortunately, to people who live on it. We're sending a message about how important this is. It's the second time in a row because it doesn't matter now. Okay. If it's the first time, but this is the second time in a row that it happens at this time of day or night, to be more specific, and that so many MPs are there, that it's obviously every party left its own party to do something and it's not, it's just a bad, totally bad message. The appeal to the minister, unlike other ministers, or not all, but don't realize that everything that comes from this opposition side is pure criticism and that it's a bad intention. It's not a bad idea, we all want it to go, to do it better. None of us can be better off if you do bad work. That's for sure. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. And just like that, there's a negative but there's a positive rain. It's a positive one, HDZ colleagues say this was their education shower, so they treat it as positive. A little joke, don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23209	Thank you, you're a little late. No more educational showers. The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23210	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague and I agree with you, but I said it a little figuratively, that it's a good thing we're here tonight. Of course, we'd be glad to get an appointment when it's being transmitted directly to another program, so if those farmers were interested in it. However, it seems to me that this may be, not perhaps, but certainly a little deliberate. I was, for example, extremely sorry that there was no Minister Jakovina at the budget presentation yesterday. I even asked why he wasn't here. Even though agriculture is the most vital part of the Croatian economy, it is indeed, I think, and I am afraid, and I am afraid, that it is not currently being thought about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23211	Replica, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23212	Dear colleagues. Here, let me, maybe I wasn't clear enough, and you just said we weren't going to vote, but we didn't make it clear for what reasons. Well, let me say it. And in this proposal, amending and supplementing the law is defined by me, I would say, undefined, completely certain things are not fully defined. Well, among other things, in art. 4. for the change in paragraph 5, says: "The users who are in a special situation in paragraph 2 of this Article are those who have made investments in the milk, tow of cattle and sheep and goats." It is not said when, at what time, what investments, etc. Then also, in a few cases here, it is not going to give some solutions, but it is said that the minister will prescribe it with his sublaws. And for these reasons of incomplete definition of the law itself, I said that the European Commission cannot be deceived, perhaps it would be best to withdraw this bill and try to discuss it, I don't know if it is possible, next or second week to try to implement certain, I would say more precise formulations, and not put ourselves in a situation where again after a month or 40 days we don't discuss the law. Here's why we're not going to give our vote now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23213	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23214	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Cobankovic, I agree with you. Here it is, and I agree for one reason, that in this negotiating period over 40 laws and over 400 sublaws have been negotiated in this area of agriculture and never returned. I am not saying that the minister must be aware of everything, I do not say, but that minister must know the team that will work for him and ask Mr. Minister again, whether he will be punished by the team or by the person who did this, they have practically disgraced the Croatian Parliament, we ourselves have not checked, but also the Croatian Parliament who has raised hands for something that has not been communicated with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23215	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23216	I thank the esteemed vice president, dear colleagues and colleagues. According to the old man who makes the mistake, he has the right to make a mistake. In the part where we have possibly made a mistake as a ministry, I can take responsibility for myself, but I do not stand and categorically refuse that this law has not been communicated with the European Commission. At technical levels, at meetings in Brussels with the Commission are the same people you speak of to a respected colleague, Cobankovic, who attends these working groups, worked on them and received information that the law is harmonised. What we have tried to correct and try to improve and help the right producers, responsible producers, by proposing the law that has been here in the House since the first day, is to do what we say as one of the shortcomings in the negotiations itself, which is the reference year 2011. Most of the comments in this subsequent statement are of a technical nature. One of the basics was that we tried to make through this law that from the national reserve linearly reduced the quantity for reduced production, for one single reason. You are well aware that you have extended the deadlines for the application of both cattle and for the rest, that part of the manufacturer has in some way been treated speculatively, i.e. since he knew that 2011 was the reference year after which he would receive support, they raised their production in order to reduce it already in 2012. There are a number of those who have maintained their production and will thus be in a subordinate position compared to speculators. We tried to make this right, although we knew it wasn't something that was completely in the spirit of detachment of support from production, i.e. it was a clean CAP. That's how we hurried to protect the agricultural producers who kept production. Unfortunately, the observation has arrived that this is something that is not in line and that we have to change that. We've accepted that, and we've had two more meetings with the representatives of the commission, we've been looking for a higher level that can make decisions and that can tell us, okay. That law is fine now. When I mention the unhappily negotiated 2011 opinion and attitude that it would be a much better and better-quality solution if you had negotiated for three years, because I will only point out that in 2003, when the EU also implemented a reform of direct payments towards detachment of aid from production, the reference period left 2000 and 2002, and they set themselves a reference period of three years because they have a much better picture of what is real production. And you know, you know very well that in 2011, there was a rise in production due to and exclusively in order to determine that it was the reference year 2011. There will be people until the new establishment of the package, up to a new package of 14, 20, who will be in a situation where they have one or no throats or the same amount of cattle in the barn, will receive support, if there are a number of demands that go to, the actual producers that have kept production. We tried this with the bill of law that we referred to, in a way, correct, or when we couldn't change the reference period, we tried to edit it through this provision. It didn't pass. What we can't agree on and what saddens me as your colleague are labels about manipulation, misinformation, fraud, intricacies, incompetence at this level of primary school. There are a little more schools than elementary school I think my team and I have enough expertise and we want to do the best we can through legal solutions. This story and we listened to it on the board, and I personally said that I would always commend the measures and things that were done, did the previous governments or my predecessor in the 6.5 years that you were leading are ok. And we don't run away from it, but I'm also going to tell you who now is the resolution minister who is responsible for one of the most numerous and most difficult and most important ministries in this country and everything that hasn't been good. The funds were higher and we agreed on the committee that in 2011, which was a pre-election year, had almost 3 billion 700 for support, before that there were 3 and 400, 3 and 500 in 2010, there were 3 billion and 200, only unfortunately the great effects of such aids are not seen. A respected colleague mentioned a large number of farms, yes, 120 thousand hectares of agricultural land are missing from these same farmers, those same people who have entered huge investments for which the state has given significant funds through capital, because they do not have the basic resources to produce livestock food and, unfortunately, that is why our livestock fund falls. That's why cattle farming is pretty much the most sensitive sector here. 120 thousand acres of our cattle are missing land. We'll do it with a new law, land reform. In ten years under the current law, only 260 thousand hectares of agricultural land of nearly 890,000 hectares of state agricultural land has been put into operation, 10 years of 260 thousand hectares. In any form of availability, it's a land reform and that's why it's going. I will not agree with you that everything is a concrete state and that all we have to do is wait, open and expect money from Europe. And you know well that we can expect what is the first pillar, what are direct payments, for everything else we have to fight bloody. We need to prepare our agricultural producers, the whole system has to work differently, so that as many projects as possible, we can make quality projects, and based on only such projects, we can withdraw funds. 333m euros is not something the EU will open to the cash register and say go ahead. We'll have to fight well for each of us, and this is what the Ministry and my team are doing. Am I happy with all the co-workers who are in the ministry? Not in the whole agency system, I've got 2,600 people. I've come with 15 people inside and these people will go with me. Most of those in the ministry were people who were in the system and when you ran the ministry and most of them were at the same level of work they were doing, those who weren't happy about changing the formation of the ministry and changing the way they went. So once again, we stand behind what we've done. We didn't think of this honored home and even less of a commission to cheat, hide, or how you said to manipulate anyone. We worked in good faith, we made a bill that is important to us as you have said for the Agency's accreditation and for the preparation of the support system that will start next year in the first quarter with payment since January as we said bar with the aim of making better preparation and relief for our agricultural producers, but also, I am sure and guaranteed that the whole package of what we do, regardless of the limited resources we have will give effect. It doesn't matter to me what's most likable or favorite or media-friendly minister, the results will talk about what we do and how we do, and how we do. I'm sure it's within what we can and how we can, we'll do the maximum. If eight years ago the problems of Croatian shipyards were solved in the governments where you were sitting, we would have no problem having to solve it in these few months and we must simply as a blocking finding solve the shipbuilding. Comrade Lalovac, it seems to me, because I've been listening a little bit, I've indicated how many billions of kunas are waiting for us only in interest. It's just that this government has said in a responsible way how we're going to behave and everything that we've plotted for ourselves as a cruel and important relief package, projects, that's what we're going to do. It is not true auctioning with amounts that are smaller in the budget, we say that our budget is not only support for agriculture, it is not only agriculture but forestry and the water economy. You have not said one word that among other things we are related to Croatian water projects 225% of the realization of what was, the period of previous years is related to the investment. We don't have to do this from the Ministry. We've rerouted those funds for an institution that can, which knows that, which has the means to secure it. The other funds we have we've redistributed for agriculture for the projects we need. The VIP research projects are farthest this year. The link between science and agriculture is particularly important to me. This part I think is, I don't think, I'm sure that now in a quality way it's harmonised, all that follows, we're talking about what we need to do is the Agency for Getting Accreditation is ongoing and there won't be any problems. The whole system is going through reforms, we can't change all the negative trends overnight, but we're doing our best. I'd be happier than you said, if I had a better team, if I had a better team, that I could have a more flow system. Yes, unfortunately, I have what I have and I try to get the most out of my colleague and colleague, and there are enough professional and good enough in the ministry to work with, there are those I can't count on, and I'm going to ask to make a mistake, whether it's intentional or accidental, I'm going to ask for responsibility. Here's so much to explain. I don't think I'm the happiest that we've had to change and supplement this in a short time, but it's simply something we've had to correct and comply with EU legislation. I tried to give a quality explanation of why we did it, again I say with the aim of protecting the right producers from that speculative part of the manufacturer that raised production exclusively in 2011 as a reference year so that through the support system there would be certain benefits in the next period. It is in line with the change of the new CAP reform package, which will be regulated for the 14-20th, which we too will act as a member of the European Union, will be subject to this Support Act which is now proposed. Thank you. You could make a little more reference, but you'd better not. This is a good thing that you mentioned October 2nd and the Import Liberation Regulation but I'll remind you that it's a job that you've been trying for 5 or 7 years, so you failed. ... I hope that in 2013, 2014 or 2015, the same thing that makes good this ministry will only be a credit to your government and your ministry leadership. [[The intruder doesn't understand...]] Let's not run away from it, I'll say one more word, what's good at it we've continued to do, what's wrong we'll change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23217	Thank you very much. Replica, Petar Cobankovic. Don't throw it out of the bench, you've got a replica and you'll say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23218	Thank you very much. I have to explain to Mr. Secretary why the reference year was 2011. Well, for the simple reason that we didn't have time, for the simple reason that 2011 had to be a reference, in 2012, the full application of the SPS of the regional model, the testing of the complete system and in 2013 we move on to EU funding, and that is all wisdom. You can say whatever you want. But another thing, don't say what I didn't say, I didn't say that you were dishonest, I didn't say that you didn't mention your intellectual abilities, but I said that you just couldn't fool the European Commission, it turned out on this case. You had signs, and you had information that this wouldn't go away, this law we passed, and then it did misinformed us, you know. And the other thing I could answer a lot of things, but I'm only going to say about land, you often say, you're saying how much the land of the state has been solved in these eight years, but unfortunately, dear colleague in 2012 has almost nothing been solved. It's going to be four years soon. The results and land policy will be seen in four years, so we can combine them. I am convinced that the results from 2004 to 2012 will be far higher, but 'unfortunately this is not good, but the results that will be in the period 2012. - 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23219	Next replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23220	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I don't even know what to tell you right now, here's your last line, that it's, no matter whose it is, you understand. But do you know what a swine fever is? You ever heard of it. Do you know what time it took not to vaccinate pigs against swine fever and do you know what that was about? Do you know that you cannot export to the EU pigs that have been vaccinated, so I am now telling you healthy peasants that you can understand against swine fever. So it took a period to prove that Croatia is free from swine fever. Look, you have your team fantastic, so ask them to train you a little bit so that the EU will finally, finally, say ok. Now everything's fine, it can be sold since the seventh, so it means exporting pig meat and game meat. That's what I was talking to the Minister about. Your closest team, those 15 people, they must be the ones who know what they're looking for and what they want. It's them, and nobody hates you, and it's the same with everyone else, and I can't come here from veterinary, there's little time, really little to tell you about everything right now, but ask around. Ask around.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23221	And the last replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23222	Well, I'm speaking to the minister, but I can see he's busy right now, but I don't have much, so I can wait for my colleague to do his job. I have no intention of apologizing, although I can see that you responded to the elementary school, it wasn't addressed to you, but today from this pay phone a representative of the government said to me really at primary school level, if you know the thief, you report it. I don't think that's really much of a level. You have mentioned earlier that you are preparing farmers for this EU entry to be of real quality. It associated me with the presentation of fellow Komadina today, when he said just be careful not to look at those preparations so it wouldn't be a little late, because at least to me by what people call us, what they're telling us. Now I'm not going to say that what my colleagues in HDZ say but it's pretty much all about the same, more or less all of these are people with the same problems. And I got a text to ask the question of the Agricultural Land Act. Since people are asking, and what's taking so long, you're now a year, or not yet, but there's... that some were done before or that everything was rejected, or I don't know how, but definitely the Agricultural Land Act is what people are interested in. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23223	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23224	I'll try to be very brief. Dear colleague, I know Hodogram what and how it should have been, which does not mean that the reference period could not have been in 2009 and 2011. It would give far more accurate data on agricultural production in Croatia and what we have linked to the resources of national reserves. As far as these dates are concerned, I know, but you could have done it neatly two years ago because that monitoring went through and it was no longer a safety, or veterinary or trade issue but a less political issue. We worked for six months, worked terribly hard on the level of the relationship. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23225	Please don't, colleague. I can't say anything, because I chair, and you, please, had a replica. [[I think, Madam Vice President, so give me something to say.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23226	And very briefly about the Agricultural Land Act, yes, the figures are, or mathematics is an exact science. It will be very easy for Mr. Cobankovic to compare what has been done in these ten years, and what will be done under the new Agricultural Land Act. The law is in the government's procedure. The law is in the government's procedure, when we made a bill, we published it on our ministry's website. We made a whole series of round tables, public debates, we wanted to hear as many opinions as possible, as many suggestions, remarks, suggestions on the law. We got them in large numbers, we sat down again, we went through them responsibly, we put a part of them in the final proposal, and I think it's next Thursday at the government, and then it's on the first reading in this House. So the Agricultural Land Act will go very soon and we will do for it what is a crucial thing and it is to place the agricultural area in the function of agricultural production. Unfortunately, if it was done back 7.8.10 years, I think our agriculture would look quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23227	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the bill later, and tomorrow at 9:30 we will start with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-28-0.u23228	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on support in agriculture and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 207. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 24 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act, as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue to work. This morning, we agreed to start with - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 208 So I am taking the opportunity to welcome Croatian defenders to the Croatian Parliament. I want them to feel comfortable, and we will first read the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, P.Z. No. It's the 208th plenary session. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law, which are Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on War Veterans. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Defence Minister Mr. Predrag Matic. Here you go.
