ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19625	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 22. Article 4 The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Radio Television The Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament launched a procedure for appointment and launched a tender for the selection of the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television on 16 July 2012. At its 10th session, held on 9 October 2012, the Committee considered all the candidates to arrive at the competition and established a list of candidates who meet the conditions for the selection of the head director of HRT prescribed by the Law on HRT and Competitions. All candidates were interviewed at 11. Meeting of the Committee held on 16, 17 and 18 October 2012. At its 12th meeting held on 25 October 2012, the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament proposed Goran Radman as head director of the HRT and, in accordance with Article 19 and paragraph 3. The law on Croatian radio television established this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19626	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. HDZ club and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19627	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This is the final act of the series, probably the soap opera that started with the amendments to the HRT Act. We've had plenty of opportunities in this House to talk about this subject. We all probably wanted public television in our speeches. Public television, which will be a mirror for all segments of Croatian society. Public television, which will represent different political opinions, different attitudes that have ultimately been expressed by citizens in the elections in the Republic of Croatia. We insisted from 2009 until today on political consensus. We'll insist on it further. Someone might like it, someone doesn't have to like it. But we will insist on what we have proposed in the 2010 Law. Wherever we and our colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition were able to sit down and discuss the consensus, we are prepared to support it. I'm talking here first of all about the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Therefore, we have shown that political consensus can be achieved where both sides have an interest. How much of this is the last episode of the series was clear already in the months before today's vote in the media where we could read about the selection of the principal and what he would be like. It was clear because they were already giving, doing business in other companies, and preparing to take office. We appreciate the management skills, but we are sure that the manager who comes to the position of HRT Director-General would have much greater credibility and much greater power that he was elected by political consensus, and not by the ruling majority's will. Just like those who may be voted in the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. The fact is also that public television from the late '60s and '70s is not a role model and is not what we would like from public television at a time when the Republic of Croatia joins full EU membership. The fact is, we missed the chance to reach a political consensus on the election of the head director or administration under the old law. Perhaps, according to all of this, we would view it differently if we had a political consensus which is also corrective because the same principal who will be elected by the majority will have to submit the report again in this House is the majority then the political consensus and the corrective work and can help possibly the problems that will inevitably appear to be overcome. Perhaps we could also believe that the last months since the temporary administration was introduced we have seen any show on HRT where new amendments and additions to the HRT Act and on the work of television have been possible in these months where we could say whether the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia could be respected in terms of financing independent production, whether the project HRT 3 is implemented as it is imagined and as it should be, whether it is consistent with the informational emissions and discussions from this Assembly where colleagues and colleagues from all parliamentary parties speak and whether it is adequately presented in informational shows, what is the state of ratings and whether people who have been replaced have been really replaced because of the right criteria or because of what they liked or not. We would like to highlight all of these colleagues and colleagues during this vote. In that sense, we will continue to advocate political consensus, especially in this. We'll see what time will bring, and will we get public television in the right sense that we've advocated, or will we get something that's our role model in the '60s and '70s? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19628	Thank you, Your Honor. SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Kregar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19629	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Mesic said it was the last of the series. However, this series has long been seen by all of us and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I could not say that it is neither the last nor the first act. However, this would give the impression that whoever comes to the position of the director of HRT comes at the end of a well-directed series, which is not so. The one who comes to the director's post and I think of it a large majority of all interested agree to come to an organization and institution that has many not only personal problems but financial difficulties, in which there are numerous organisational problems that have not even been fully resolved during this transitional period. I do not believe that anyone has accepted the thesis by which the arrival of someone who is not able in the opinion of the committee who voted in favour of such difficulties. However, it is worse and more difficult to suggest such a conclusion, which is the fact that both the committee and the criteria are being questioned in this way. I don't think that's good. Mr. Chairman of the Committee Vuksic he explained, and you were also witnesses to it and the public was that there was a great public interest in the debate and in deciding on candidates. Oh, there have been all kinds of questions on our board, and there have been public or less public issues about the person you should choose about the people who are candidates. That's what the board refused, didn't accept and I think he did his job quite correctly. I want to say one thing clearly then, the candidate we propose is not proposed because most of them decided to do so but because most of them chose the best candidate. In this regard, we have firm arguments and a clean conscience. That's why Mr. Radman has the support and needs to be supported by these esteemed houses. There are other things that have been said to comment at this point. Consensus is required and the consensus is deemed to be good. I don't agree with that. But consensus means other things. If we had a consensus, the question is why did we lose it? Is it possible that the consensus was not maintained in the programming, editing and any other HRT policy? Consensus can also be an obstacle to what is the determination of responsibility for the situation and failures that have arisen. Consensus rests on the assumption that there is at least a minimum of agreement on some principles concerning work and action not only radio and television but also other things in which consensus is needed. We have a consensus we hope and we will have it on important national interests and issues, but the consensus has lagged out in many issues which may be understandable regarding privatisation, concerning economic policy, concerning personal and other decisions. There isn't always a need to expect a consensus he can't happen. But we would do well to have him in those issues concerning the quality of work, the fixation of the economic and management situation on HRT. Let's just not confuse our responsibility as a representative body and the responsibility of the director who runs that television. There's something else that's hidden in these thesis, and that's what I read in that title, that politics decides about the director. If we were Parliament, we were politics, but there's no other body that can replace the will presented by the voters, we're you. And in this respect, again I must repeat, we choose the best of the candidates reported, not someone who is at our will because of his profile of ideological or political, not a member of the party, not someone who is subject to disciplined party member. Here we were faced with threats that it would be the arrival of a political commissioner at the head of the HRT, and the candidates who applied, and the candidate we're proposing, doesn't fit one of those profiles at all. His past, references say it's a capable, intelligent, reasonable and measured man, not a commissioner. He made an excellent impression on the members of the committee primarily because of his experience, quantification, and because he avoided making it easier to make promises. He knows what problems lie ahead and he's ready to deal with them. It shows ambition. But should we choose a man who solves our ambition? No, you wouldn't. As a result, the procedure guaranteed it was quite transparent, open and somewhat innovative in this regard. He assured that everyone could ask questions and question the integrity of the quality of each of the proposed candidates. That's what it was. We heard, we could estimate and eventually we could decide. The decision reached by such a majority does not necessarily mean that it is the majority in this House because it was also voted by members who are not in the parties forming the ruling coalition. On the contrary, against this candidate so far, the HDZ alone has been. I'm sorry, to call at the same time for consensus and be against a candidate who obviously has all the necessary qualities, and at the same time is not good. That is why I propose on behalf of the club, and in fact it seems to me on behalf of the public that we support the candidate we have checked and that we consider best to perform that function, which is why I call on everyone to vote for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19630	Thank you very much. Next is Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. And there's a replica I'm sorry. A replica of the respected representative Dujomor Marasovic was reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19631	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Craiger. I do not question the criteria of the board during this process. I question the criteria of the Croatian government that led this process in such a way that the ruling party's policy is chosen by the director of Croatian television. It's my replica, Mr. Craiger. You also said who would choose if not politics. This is contrary to all that you say so that you may come to power and all that you say since you are in power, that they should be able to keep politics out of it. I don't agree to your criteria. My criteria were that the director of Croatian television should be from a... Croatian Catholic intellectual because most of the Croatian people are declared Catholic. Why don't these be my criteria, why would it be one communist... horseshoe and so on. Please, that's nice of me to say, I'm asking myself a question. If you say who it is besides politics, and what about the civil society we swear to and for which we pay 2 billion kuna a year, we've been discussing it all day yesterday. You've broken all your promises, you've gotten naked here, the Emperor's naked Mr. Craig, the SDP and the rest of it's naked so we only mean politics, we only mean atheism, we only mean the past of socialism, etc. and nothing more. But I wish him all the best luck and success just to be somehow a successful director but the criteria are the ones I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19632	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19633	... I am grateful to you for opening them and giving yourself answers to them. [[Specially enabled.]] What I want to underline, however, is the fact that when I mentioned that the policy here is decided, so it is quite evident, the law says that the Parliament is a political body, but that it is all done not to be something in which I would only vote but to be an open procedure in which civil society representatives participated and organised discussions that ended in the same conclusion that we also made. And I'm going to say it again, and I hope it's also for you when you've already wished the candidate good luck and reason enough to give him a vote that we've proposed a candidate who has all the skills and knowledge needed to do this job well, and he's going to file a report, and he's going to answer to the public for everything he has to do, what he needs to do and what he's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19634	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. Next is the SDSS club and respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19635	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Croatia is a secular state and there are no religious groups in the secular state that should be represented more or whose value system should be taken more into account than others. Even if there is only one group, and there is no other, third or fourth fact of the constitutional provision on secularity, it states that the criterion which belongs to any religious or other group to carry out any public work cannot be taken as relevant and may be considered as an invitation to discrimination. I am deeply convinced that our esteemed colleague, Dr. Marasovic, did not have that in mind. As far as the subject is concerned, we had a discussion on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure this morning about candidates and candidates for the occupier. We have realized that we have had a series of good candidates and candidates, as we have established that our criteria have increased and that we want to have better candidates than those who have reported to the public. And in this sense, these are encouraging facts that are confirmed here and here in those who have applied as candidates or candidates for the position of directors of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. Indeed, this time we could choose between more good candidates and candidates. No matter how many of them became candidates or candidates, no matter what could be identified from the background who eventually encouraged someone to be a candidate or candidate. But colleagues and colleagues, we really had good choices. Until the last moment, we had the opportunity to choose between people whose qualities of professional, biographical, personal are such that we didn't have a slave, we didn't have a limited, we didn't have a risky choice. The Committee's decision to propose to the Assembly Mr Goran Radman, according to the SDSS's Club of Representatives, is a good decision. That's why Mr. Radman is a man who knows television, who knows that medium, at the same time because he's a man who knows new media, those who came after generations of radio and after generations of television. Sam spent a significant part of his professional time in one of those new media institutions. Mr. Radman is therefore a man who has the assumption that by coming to Croatian Radio or Television his experience and also apply his knowledge to what needs to be done on Croatian Radio and TV. This means that according to what I know about it it is necessary to clarify the situation on Croatian Radio and TV. Which way? First of all, I'll mention what most people here mention. There has been no consensus so far, mostly no consensus. There may have been arrangements for occasional, ad hoc and so forth, but the only dominant logic of the presence of different political options on HRT is that everyone has their own bus, their own journalist and their own editorial, but it's not a consensus. It's a repatriation of the political scene on HRT, it's not a consensus. And let's not call on anything we've never managed to build except maybe at one point. But we never made it. Therefore, what seems necessary to me is to free up the Croatian broadcasting of this type of situation, so a circle of editors of the Dnevnik that will be closer to the SDP or editor of the circle that will be closer to HDZ. Croatian television as a public medium must have criteria that are above it, supra-party and must have high criteria to monitor what is of public interest and public work in which it has for each place for both the government and the opposition both for the non-governmental sector and for the government sector. And that's what seems to be very important. What I know, what we could read from Mr. Radman's program is clearly visible that he is the man who can provide it. Another thing I would like to say is the matter of the material and financial situation on Croatian radio-television. So different positions and different actors who ran Croatian radio-television changed but the logic of the material-financial situation did not change. Croatian Radio Television is a public enterprise that passed the same fate that other public companies had been passing. She was devastated from the outside and devastated from the inside. So, material-financial efforts were made to make use of its assets both from the outside and from the inside. It is unacceptable for people who work in their own home at the same time on jobs paid by their own home to have their own private companies who provide services to whom, to that own house, to that own newspaper whether sports, or film, or to any third or fourth story. It is equally unacceptable, inadmissible for people working on Croatian television, who have created their names as Croatian journalists to sell their names to other media. Unacceptable! It can't be. Those names are the result of the work of that house and the work of that house, and they must be and belong to that house. So these are some of the things that seem important to me, which will have to be cleared up. The same is true of course when it comes to modernization. Croatian broadcasting in the current state is too steep, too slow. He's not responding at the rate other media are responding to. And at the same time, it does nothing to modernise any technological or conceptual way in which it will monitor what is happening in the world, what is happening in our society. It is unacceptable to do so many employees or perhaps because there are so many employees who fail to do what others do with three times the number of employees and three times the number of funds they have. This needs to be cleared up and it needs to be brought to order. And that modernization, we expect it to build a new HRT administration. Now allow me two, three words in the time that I have left to say why we have such an important choice of director of Croatian Radio Television. It is not important for us from the Independent Democratic Serb Party because it is a matter of political influence. Because certainly, if we can't achieve political influence in that space set out in the Constitution and the law, then we shouldn't do it through this or that man on Croatian Radio or Croatian TV. What motivates us in this matter is a matter of the state of the media and the state of the public. And the state of the media is extremely worrying about us. The state of the public is extremely worrying with us. And Croatian Radio Television is still the only place where you can try to preserve the independence of the media and the independence of the media business either from the owners or from the politicians or those who have power. Of course it can be said that it is a utopian point of view of this thing, but there is no doubt that if we don't do so, then the last oasis and the last island in which we have some kind of opportunity to form, through the media that is public and national, the national public, neither Catholic nor such, nor such, but national of the general interest of this society. It's understandable who and what makes this society. So, that this is not the result of any particular interest, as we are now trying to convince ourselves that the affairs discussed are the result of the interests of one publisher or other publisher, but that we have a medium that will take care of what the general interests are, which are national interests if we want to call them that. And such a media that will not primarily be managed by profit, which will not primarily be managed by winning political power by working with this or that ruling furniture. We unfortunately do not have such a media and we can have it in Croatian radio and we advocate it so. If we want to keep minimum assumptions that the work we do brings and has as a result a democratic public, a free public, a public that will not be handled either way and which will not be controlled and which will not be manipulated as is a good part of our public, unfortunately and controlled and manipulated. For this reason we give Mr. Radman and those he will choose as his associates or associates without the illusion that this job will be easy for him, without the illusion that this is possible simply because Mr. Radman is professional, only because he has moral integrity. Apparently, he's gonna need some kind of support in that business. And then there's fellow Mesic's opportunity for some kind of consensus, to defend what we still have to defend and not have much left. Croatian television is like a public medium, it is one of those points that we should defend and about which we must have consensus here even when we are not sure if we agree on everything about the elections, and I think we are not far from agreeing that Mr. Radman represents a man of high quality who can meet our expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19636	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's take it in a row. The first replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19637	Your Honor, Mr. President. You know what I'm going to tell you, you're also throwing yourself away with difficult words of discrimination, and I could take yours as a scare. The more someone should be intimidated and scared of someone in this country. I don't think those words are exactly the right time to live in. But if that's what atheism threatens both the Catholic and the Orthodox Church and the faith, it's the same faith. I have great relations with Orthodox people, and Islam and the Jewish community and every religion. Well, if you like, I can tell you that I'd like to say one intellectual religiously or religiously. I don't care. That's what I was going to say. And you always abuse it and somehow teach someone else a lesson. But what's my main replica, you know what bothers me here? Not so much, I said it along the way that he's an atheist from the former communist system, etc., etc. What's this all about? I could call this country Milanović@his friends because Milanovic is the Prime Minister and says his friend is his main characteristic, his chief positive director of the National Bank and his friend, the director of Television is his friend, so they represent him, the director now in the INA says he's a good one, he's good but Milanovic's friend. So Milanovic has 5.6 of his friends and has taken all the key places in the country. Well, that doesn't have any criteria. Friendship with Milanovic is the only criterion for being the director of HRT. This is Mr. Pupovac's problem and the Catholic and Orthodox and Islamic and you yourself are the only one who is not aware of it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19638	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19639	I'm making you seem to me Dr. Marasovic was well understood and I do not dispute your right to advocate that kind of attitude. I just wanted to say that we should change the Constitution. And I don't dispute your right to advocate that the Constitution is changing in that segment, but at this point I am deeply convinced we won't change it in that direction because I'm sure when you mention the former system that you wouldn't want one system that was one-dimensional or one-dimensional to replace it now with another one-dimensional and one-minded system. Why? Not because communism could not have good characteristics or not that Catholicism could not have good characteristics, but because it is not appropriate for societies to be one-minded and one-dimensional, regardless of whether we are talking about communism or Catholicism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19640	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've got a line for the esteemed representative, Professor. Popsicle. There's no model dear colleague we haven't tried around HRT, no model. We've been trying various models since the '90s on this thing. The moment closest to what we mean by political consensus was the Law 2010. In 2010, where individual parties had the will, representatives were elected to the Programme Council and to the Supervisory Board, which had to elect management by two-thirds of the majority. So that was the closest moment where we were and a picture of everyone to say the faction in society, the closest. That's what we've been talking about all along. And of course we're in favour of defending the public interest. It's in my interest, too. It's in our interest. But in defense of that public interest which will indeed be such, not the public interest of one who will think and determine that it is a public interest. That's why we have a lot of expectations from both the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Some television stations have public opinion research, which is a public interest. It's not there. It's someone comes in and says it's a public interest, and that's what the show's gonna look like. If it's going to work in defense of such a public interest, it's for sure that our support will be there. If it's going to be this other version, it won't. And then it would have been better if we had agreed on this election by the principal because we would have been much better corrected because of those reports coming to the Parliament annually. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19642	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pupovac, I am pleased that you have said today something that most colleagues do not know, and I think that the question that is related to this appointment, and that is the question of our criteria when we decide on such important issues, and today it was supposed to be on the agenda of two. One appointment of the Director-General, and the other was the appointment of the Attorney General. And what happened today was what the position explains in the appointment of the Director-General that one or the deciding criteria was to choose between the candidates who reported to the competition the one who is the best in the opinion of the competent authorities. Today, we had the same case in selecting a civil defender, candidates who guaranteed their résumés the quality of their work, instructed a whole series of arguments about it but told us by ruling that they were not good enough candidates. We once decided to choose not to choose anyone but to wait for even better and best candidates to come forward and thus de facto mixed the quality of all those who responded to the competition. So if, in one case, the criteria were that we had chosen on the basis of the best offered, I believe that such a criterion, and the ruling ones had to apply it in the selection of the attorney general. So just one message, please identify yourself, if you have the criteria for selecting the principal, take the same criterion as the ombudsman. Don't say you haven't got good enough yet to make a choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19644	Thank you, too. Next in the Croatian Assembly is the Club of National Minorities and Honored Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19645	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, that's very short. I was a little angry at my colleague Marasovic first, and now I'm a little happy. Namely, the intellectual of the Catholic event as a good candidate for director of Croatian television simply making something that we can't talk about at all in the Croatian Parliament. And then in the replica, he got a little bit straight, so I'm just thinking, since Kurban-Bajram might have been his suggestion that it might be someone from another religious event who was nice. Do we have anyone to say who would be an intellectual of the Islamic event and be the director of HRT? The right to believe the fundamental right of all of us whose faith we will belong to or will not belong to, so atheism is right and atheism is the right that is guaranteed in this country and I ask that we respect it. I wish we were all good Catholic squads according to those moral principles, good Orthodox or good Islamic or some other religion, where happiness lies. I'm afraid that's not the case. What I'd like to say here today when we choose a new director of HRT that I hope when we choose it we won't be able to listen to some things on HRT as it is these days with our beautiful in Chitluk, so the announcement of the show "Beautiful Ours" but in Chitluk. I continue to pray that we respect BiH's integrity because when we say to ours we think of our country Croatia and every exit outside these frameworks is inadmissible for me. We also knew that BiH champion Shirokee should play with Cibona or I don't know anyone else for all Croatian champions. So I also think that these are things that are not allowed. We also knew on the radio that without a box of beer you couldn't watch football. So these are bad messages that go from public media to very bad influences I would say about youth. These days we've talked about vices and drug problems. So, we should make it public to get it serious, wipe out the political colors, and hopefully, with this new director, we'll have a man who knows how to do it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19646	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single replica on your display. Dear Representative Ilija Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I felt the need to react to such an act from the National Minority Club. Apparently, respected counterpart Hodzic did not understand his role in the parliament as a representative of the national minority. I think through what he said he forgot one big thing. The Republic of Croatia is a country of Croatian people and representatives of national minorities. The Croatian people are a dominant Catholic people and I allow it to... in such a way as not to forget the role of the traditional Catholic dimension of the Croatian state. Along the way, so I mentioned it, but I'm particularly bothered that Mr. Hodzic is intruding "the beautiful one in Chitluk." The beautiful one in Chitluk in the heart of western Herzegovina where 99 may be 9% of Croats and I defend it from the title of indivisibility of Croatian national interest which should be taken into account both this Assembly and all the bodies of state authorities in the state of Croatia. And that should be respected by all those chosen regardless of which unit from 1 to 12. So I come from the 11th constituency, so I represent the election base of the 11th electoral unit, it's the Croatian electoral body and others who wanted to vote for the HDZ list and that's the diaspora of Croatia around the world. To talk about how someone's bothered by our beautiful in some space...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19648	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19649	Where in most Croatians live is the least unserious story in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19650	Time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19651	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19652	Replicate response, honourable representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19653	I only appeal that in this house the Constitution and the laws of this country are respected as they are written, and if we change them then we will have some others and in this home and on public television respect the territorial integrity of the countries that we have recognised. ... I absolutely don't mind about BiH and Croatia, I feel part of both countries, so I absolutely don't mind but for the principle of things, I pray that this house is not a place, that we can't say what we can say outside of the assembly, at the bar among friends. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On this alone, I insist that we respect the laws and the Constitution of this country and respect the territorial integrity of neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-26-0.u19654	Dear colleagues and colleagues, namely, according to the Constitution, Croatia belongs to or its authority as a community of free and equal citizens. It is determined to interpret the Constitution, so I ask you to refer to yourself in that sense when you speak of it. Thank you very much. We have completed the list of applicants to discuss the proposal for this topic. Unfortunately, Your Honor, I didn't get a tip that you picked up the board in time. ... We can't talk like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you have something connected outside the replica after the decision on the proposal, the vote on the proposal will be heard and discussed. Now we've completed the list of registered, without your application for replication. I'm sorry. Please determine the quorum before moving to the vote. Thank you very much. I find that we have a sufficient number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament so that we can decide on a decision on the agenda. The decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes in accordance with Article 19 of the Law. We're moving on to a plea. By raising our hands, please let us know who is the head director of Croatian television for the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Goran Radman. Please state who's in. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the motion for a decision to appoint most votes, 92 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 1 vote with abstention has been accepted. Congratulations to the appointed director of Croatian television, I wish him good luck, a good and clear sense of public interest and public affairs, the values of Croatian people and Croatian society. I want him to successfully recognise the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian society as a whole. You are now followed by the selection of 9 members of the HRT Programme Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Croatian Parliament elects 9 members of the Programme Council. In the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 25(8) The law provided a list of candidates who meet the requirements laid down by law. Does the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media want to take a word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Before we approach the vote, I will inform you about how to vote and determine the results of the election. Article 25(8) of the Law on HRT provides that the Croatian Parliament shall vote individually on all proposals that meet the conditions for selection. The election decision is being taken by the majority of all MPs, so 76 votes need to be won in order to pass the candidate to the council. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall determine as a rule the implementation of a secret vote, and in the case where the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected, Article 131. Rules of Procedure. It's the current situation. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Articles 231 to 238 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors and shapes, certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. The chairperson shall also be assisted by a number of representatives in the secret vote with the secretary of the plenary session. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters. The handover of ballots is recorded on the list of MPs, the secretary of the plenary session rounding up a regular number in front of the name of the MPs to whom the ballot is handed. The number of ballot boxes and places to be held shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote in each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote is held again by the same procedure as the first vote. Only one ballot can be voted on in person, and only for the candidates listed in the ballot. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. The ballot, which covers a regular number in front of the names of more candidates than the number selected by the unfulfilled ballot, and the ballot from which it cannot be clearly and unequivocally determined for which candidate the voter voted is considered invalid. After all present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, the vote was moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairperson in the presence of the representatives who helped him vote on the basis of the cast ballots. The Chair shall publish the results of the elections and appointments at the same session at which the secret vote was held. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots there have been, and how many MPs voted in favour of the election, i.e. the appointment of an individual candidate. After that, the chairman shall declare which candidates have been elected or appointed. I propose that the MPs who will assist me in the vote be Sonja König, Mladen Novak, Jasen Mesic, Marija Vukbratović, Igor Češek and Nedzad Hodzic. I'm setting a 30-minute stand to vote, of course.
