ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16369	We move immediately to the updated agenda point - a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament The motions for a decision are the SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU, SDSS and national minorities. You've taken the motion for a decision to the benches. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to elect the president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 123 votes for the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Josip Leko was elected. . I congratulate Mr. Lek on his election and wish him a lot of success in his work and ask him to address the Parliament as President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16370	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues. Thank you too, Prime Minister of Croatia, Vice-Presidents and members of the government. The truth for a long time, relatively long time, in the Croatian Parliament, I have experience, but by taking over the office of President of the Croatian Parliament, I really feel responsibility for you representatives, responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to the general Croatian public. I consider my duty and your duty in the Croatian Parliament the most important preservation of democracy, democratic values, tolerance and respect for various political options. In accordance with this, I see my role as commander of the ship on a lineboard. By making sure that all passengers and crew members realize their interests in order to reach their goal at the end of the term of office, which is a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, happiness is not decided by an individual and that is good. Croatia is a representative parliamentary democracy in action and is dividing the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. Not to mention the fourth government, which is banks -- financial. The Croatian Parliament is the most representative body, a central democratic place where the interests of all political options are aligned on behalf of citizens, and decisions are made in democratic procedures. I expect help from you colleagues and colleagues, I expect tolerance, harmonisation of attitudes not for my sake, but for our general and common social interest and social well-being. I have faith and confidence in democracy as a political system, a system, in the value of democracy. In fact, I think that first of all we have to preserve these values, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, two of the most important, and their constituent component is anti-fascism and anti-totalitarianism. I have confidence in you, too, in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives of Croatian citizens and I am convinced that on the basis of the value of democracy we can successfully track both the course and the course of Croatia's historical path and the protection of the democratic values of national and state interests. I am also convinced that it is not possible to imagine the life of any man or society without ideals and even illusions and utopia, everyone must have it. That's why I believe in the tolerable life of a multiparty. I believe in the life of the Croatian Parliament in tolerance and understanding of political options. These values each of us must bear in mind whether he represents in the Parliament his own position, the party's position, the individual's view because he always represents part of Croatian society. My predecessor at the head of the Parliament recently deceased Boris Sprem really had a vision on which I now thank him and I claim to continue on that path. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we also face new challenges for representative parliamentary democracy. We, both as a society and as a state, are entering new legal political relations with the EU. We are serious about achieving our interests in the common EU. Therefore, this Parliament must find solutions to leave enough freedom for our government in the EU institutions at the same time to exercise parliamentary control over decisions on behalf of Croatian citizens. Finally, whenever he listened and followed the voice of the people, during his long history, the Croatian Parliament knew wisely and visionaryly to respond to much greater and more difficult political challenges than those we have today. I am convinced that this assembly of parliament also has enough knowledge, wisdom and ability to find the best solutions to ensure national interests here and in the EU. I am also convinced that future generations will not judge us but will thank us, remembering us that we have done a good job. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the end, I only have one more time left to say thank you and to ask for cooperation. Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16371	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, Mr. Joseph Lek. We move to the second item of the updated agenda - Proposal for a decision on the election of the Croatian Parliament Vice-President Proposing decisions are the clubs of SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU, SDSS and National Minorities. You've taken the motion for a decision to the benches. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec has been elected unanimously with 125 votes for the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. ... I congratulate Mrs. Zgrebec on her election, and I wish her much success in further work. [[Applause.]] And now I'm setting a break of 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16373	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, we continue the work of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Defence Minister Vishny Tafra. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on defence co-operation signed in Sarajevo in May 2012 so that its provisions within the meaning of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia become part of the internal legal order. The Agreement regulates defence cooperation through the exchange of experiences and knowledge acquired through visits by ministry representatives, participation in exercises, through education and training, as well as other forms of cooperation agreed between the parties. Cooperation will also be established and implemented in areas of defence and security policy, strategic-political planning, military education and training, logistics, activities within the framework of the Partnership for Peace, the US-Adriatic Charter programme, the destruction of surplus weapons and ammunition, military health, military legislation, topography, the defence industry. Under this agreement, the party will draw up an annual cooperation plan for the following year. The defence ministry, the BiH Ministry of Defence, is responsible for implementing the agreement in the Republic of Croatia. The Parties have also regulated the legal situation of staff where they are located in one of the States or the tailor or recipient, the provisions of the Agreement between the States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States on the position of their 1995 forces, i.e. Sofa. On the date of entry into force of this Act, the Agreement is not in force and the data on its entry into force will be published in accordance with Article 30. Law on the conclusion and execution of an international contract. On the day of entry into force of this agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Ministry of Defence on defence co-operation signed in 2006 ends. And what we also want to stress is that this agreement continues with the policy that the Republic of Croatia is leading towards its neighbours, which means mutual assistance in defence cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16375	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We move to a debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is SDP club and respected representative Dunja Spoljar. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16376	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored deputies, colleagues and colleagues. On 1 July 2013, Croatia will become a full 28th member of the European Union. What will change in Croatia's and BiH's relations? BiH is one of the Croatian foreign policy priorities, Croatia is not good if Bosnia is bad. Croatia supports BiH's accession to the European Union and NATO. The stance on BiH has long been recognizable and defined in Croatia. Croatia has major neighbourly responsibility towards BiH. In relations with BiH, Croatia's interest is not limited to the Croatian national community in that country, but is clearly defined as an advocate of the territorial integrity of the state. Croatia will support BiH's entry into the European Union, will support a stable BiH. BiH's entry into the European Union is a positive solution for Croatia. Relations between BiH and Croatia burdens more open issues, infrastructure, transport routes, business of Croatian businesses, border crossings, traffic routes, Schengen corridor, Ploče port, etc., where the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are constantly working, but relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH in the area of defence do not fall within the area of open issues. Defence relations contribute to the overall relations between the two countries through continued progress and co-operation of the defence ministries of both countries. The established relations between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Ministry of Defence require an extension of co-operation. The Republic of Croatia will meet the internal legal requirements for the application of the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of defence, signed four months ago in Sarajevo, in particular on 16 May of this year, and the basis for which cooperation will be established and conducted in the fields of defence and security policy, in the field of planning, military education and training, logistics, activities in the framework of the Partnership for Peace, the American-Adriatic Charter Programme, in the framework of the European defence policy, in the support of peace and humanitarian operations, in the processes of joint destruction of ammunition and weapons, military health, military health, military legislation, topography and defence industry, and through exchange of experiences and expertise through visits by representatives of ministries, working groups, participation in exercises, conferences, conferences, seminars, through training and other forms of consultation, as well as through other forms of cooperation. In these areas which will thus be governed by the agreement, a legal framework will be created to establish and intensify the defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and BiH. Why emergency procedure, precisely for security in the region and cooperation with the neighbouring country, establish and intensify international defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia in the region. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on defence co-operation should take effect as soon as possible. Membership in the Partnership for Peace Croatia develops its Armed Forces in a partner way, as well as the political mechanisms necessary for the proper functioning of the modern army. An even greater responsibility for commitments undertaken, as Croatia has become an integral part of an organisation tasked with establishing security and stability in Southeast Europe. In this context, this Agreement will ultimately affect the improvement of the situation in Southeast Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16377	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next club is the Croatian Democratic Community and respected representative Tomislav Ivic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16378	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in defence co-operation. There is no doubt that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is, in addition to their relations with friendly and neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly to regulate relations in the area of defence and to establish long-term cooperation in the interests of both states. In particular, respecting the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the NATO Alliance and soon of the European Union, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is only at the beginning of that I would say the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. Cooperation in the field of defence and security policy, strategic policy planning, weapons and defence technology, military education and training of logistics activities within the Partnership for Peace, the American-Adriatic Charter programme, cooperation in the field of military and health legislation, scientific research, crisis management of both countries and both armies and will be the cornerstone of long-term cooperation, and the development of friendly and good neighbourly relations not only in the area of defence but also in other areas, and this is without doubt the first-class interest of the Republic of Croatia and as a full member of the NATO alliance, and as I said tomorrow, the European Union and leaders in the region. All of this will, of course, contribute to stabilising the situation in the region, building trust and long-term peace in this thorny region. And that is why the absolute club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this law, which confirms the agreement signed between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is how we will vote, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16379	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the Croatian People's Party club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16380	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Things about this law are so clear that it's really hard to find anything else smart to add to what previous exhibitors have said. The Croatian People's Party Club will certainly support this law, because this law actually puts into the legal system an agreement that we absolutely welcome as a whole because we believe that the improvement of relations with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Especially when it comes to the fact that a part of our countrymen live in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that, in fact, the level of security and good relations between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has a direct impact on their position and quality of life. A number of joint international commitments taken by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, are from their independence, which states that we finally put this form of cooperation in the field of defence into formal frameworks and bring it to an appropriate level, to establish standards of cooperation especially when it is taken into account that we have had certain cooperation in these past 18 years and in this field, however, it has been based on improvisation, and it has not been the result of a clearly regulated system and clearly established standards. This Agreement lays down forms of cooperation, common rights and obligations of the signatories of the Agreement, and sets out fields where cooperation can be achieved. Of course, it is about exchanging experiences and knowledge, joint exercises, helping each other, logistic assistance, developing new military technologies, improving military production together, reducing costs ultimately in these domains of the defence sector of one and the other sovereign countries, but above all, I estimate that it is important, we also assess that what is created is both the final legal and formal framework for that kind of assistance that we call crisis management and emergency situations in the peacetime. We have also witnessed the situation in the past year when members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as in some occasions previously intervened to assist the neighbouring country in the time of the major fires in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is just one example that shows how cooperation is needed. However, taking into account the common history of one and the other countries, not only modern, but overall history, it is clear that good relations and stability in this area are of strategic interest both to one and to another sovereign state. The string's the argument for it. There is no valid argument against, and for this reason, the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this law in a warm way and, of course, we will also support it by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16381	Thank you, Your Honor. Next up is the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16382	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So, first of all, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and congratulate Mr. Leka's election, or Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. I also want to express my condolences to the Boris Sprem family because he was one of those who realized that man is the one who acts as a function, not a function of man. And I want to believe that the new President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Leko and Mrs. Zgrebec, together with the other vice presidents, will manage what good Mr. Šprem left behind, but also what other Croatian Parliament presidents left behind, starts with Luke Bebić through Mr. Vladimir Seks, Vlatko Pavletic, etc. All the way to Mr. Light Domyan's, so I don't have anyone to bother me. And everyone left something good behind. And every new thing will bring good after it. But what is crucial is certainly to try to strengthen the institutions of this Parliament, and this will be when parliamentary representatives of citizens as mayors, mayors, mayors, the president of the state will be elected directly. However, let me return to this proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in cooperation in the field of defence with the final proposal for a law. Too bad Croatia didn't have a deal like this back in '92. A year. Had we had such an agreement, perhaps if others had been in power in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, they might not have had that unfortunate Bosniak-Croatian conflict that lasted almost two years. That BiH has hit hard, turned black, but also Croatia. I think of all those crying mothers in BiH, I think of the wounded, and I think that Croatia suffered the same great damage because of this war because of the perspective in which the Croats found themselves in that area, resulting in a strong eviction and abandonment under the quotes of "historic" Croatian landscapes. Or the ends that dwell on historical Croats so that someone doesn't impute anything to me. It is normal time for the best possible relations between Croatia and BiH, between Croatia and its neighbours, and this agreement certainly goes in that direction. In my court, BiH was the victim of politics in the 1990s. They suffered the greatest damage to the war of the '90s, insulting today when I heard it, where it was in Rome yesterday that there was no genocide in Srebrenica or when we heard that Vukovar was not destroyed or that the Ban Courts themselves were bombed by the Croats. We owe BiH a hand. All that other stuff, the Peles Bridge, etc., we'll make a deal. Just to say for one financial data – 45 km of fast road from Pazin to Učka with 5500 metres of tunnel through Učka will cost about 250m euros. Let's not take five kilometers of Peljek Bridge that is necessary, which is required to cost 4 or I don't know how many billions of kunas. In this law, Article 3(3), if I am not mistaken, so, and 4 is literally referred to as the area of cooperation, i.e. the forms of cooperation are then stated in Article 3 of the Cooperation Agreement will cooperate in the following areas: defence and security policy – excellent, strategic policy plan with the aim of mutual support in NATO institutions and regional organisations – excellent, arms and defence policy, logistics support, donations, concessions, exchange of military equipment, activities in the framework of the partnership for the peace of these other activities under other programmes, activities under the European security policy, the destruction of excess weapons of ammunition and the possibility of using industrial capacities for the destruction of surplus weapons of military equipment, etc. Well, military aviation, military topography, map-making, stuff like that. Article 4 literally states that the parties will cooperate through the following forms and then say participation in exercises and/or international operations, especially at the level of the defence ministers – let’s do this, visit working sections, send or exchange experts, prepare, participate in military-sports competitions etc., etc. This or this law among other things says how many wars are, I said some wars, absurd. We'll have that new agreement later or that Afghanistan. Let me just say before the debate that 2350 American soldiers died in Afghanistan, they were wounded by American only 17644. The Russians, when their adventure was in Afghanistan, had 14453 dead, 150,000 wounded. It should also be fair and admit that during '91, '95. and Croatia helped BiH receive hundreds of thousands of refugees without handling their national membership. It's in that direction we can also mention Storm. They were helped with weapons, but it is certain that BiH has been very far away since '92. Until '93, up to 94. But, well, it's all behind us now. It's not good, but it's good that it's after us. Now it's these economic issues. The issue of disabled members of the HVO, their pensions, is now being opened. What about it? What's the truth here? It is clear that whoever lost his leg, who lost his hand, who lost his life, and the HVO and the Croatian Army were all the same, I dare say so let someone correct me, deserve a pension. Anything else? How many Istrians receive so-called "Italian pension"? God forbid they don't take it. However, 60 billion kunas if the data provided by Minister Matic is directly bankrupt in Croatia. How do you treat these questions? When will this debate be opened in this House? To end, if someone should lead a good policy, then it's the neighbours and I'd put it back here just because of the historic legacy of the emphasis on BiH. Strong BiH, strong Croatia, strong Serbia, why not vice versa? Poor BiH or weak Croatia and Serbia, weak BiH or vice versa. No BiH can destabilise as nationalist policies. And I hope that this time is definitely for us and that it will never happen again, I hope to the strong and what the people say to peaceful BiH, to peaceful Bosnia, to the perspective of Bosnia where no people will be privileged, but will not be discriminated against. Where no one will be privileged but rich or marginalised, and I think that one such proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers in the field of defence is going in that particular sense, either in that direction or in that direction, and so much of this law should be adopted by both sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16383	Thank you to the IDS Club and the esteemed representative, Damir Caine. HDSSB club and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic is the next speaker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16384	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSB Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on Defence Cooperation, but here we would like to stress that this law and this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH is opening up a number of other issues and is also seeking to address these important issues for both Croatia and BiH. First of all, it is a question so I would dare say the survival of the Croatian people in BiH, the issue of economic and other co-operation but also the issue of resolving border disputes not only that BiH but also with Slovenia, as well as with Serbia. So, in the 21st century, but also on the basis of the irreversibility of state borders as a club of MPs, we are looking for an urgent resolution of these issues that would never happen to us again, and I believe that this Assembly should condemn Serbian President Nikolic's statements, similarly when we asked for it when he said that Vukovar was always a Serbian city, that he belonged to Serbia, too, and that the verdict of this statement did not take place in Srebrenica because, above all, such a statement and such a policy should be considered as a matter of first and foremost, this Croatian Parliament but also a bloody war which, thanks to all Croatian defenders of Croatia, came out as a winner, came out with a proud head of the former SFRJ people's prison because it was a series of massacres, genocide, resulting in its own home and family as well as its own. So, the HDSSB club accepts this agreement but also requires urgent resolution of all other issues, especially the resolution and borders of the Republic of Croatia with all neighbours both with BiH and Serbia but also with Slovenia thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16385	Thank you, Your Honor. And the National Minorities Club and the Honorable Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16386	I would like to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the new President of the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and once again congratulate you and my colleague Zgrebec on the election of President and Vice President. Namely, the National Minority Representatives' Club as well as other clubs will support this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on Defence Cooperation. I don't think the details of that agreement need to be discussed. It's very important and the key word is cooperation. The co-operation between the two sovereign countries, between two internationally recognised countries that in the near past and not quite were, I would say on the same background when it comes to co-operation. We witnessed very close history, things that didn't look like cooperation, let alone that they could be called that. But what I want to absorb at this point is the need for us as future EU member states to contribute to the other countries in the region, regardless of the past which is very difficult and burdensome, to contribute as future EU member states to the region with which we once shared such but still common countries as soon as possible to the EU so that we can sign such agreements with those countries for a little while. I will remind you that sometimes countries and the biggest enemy in Europe are Germany and France, and today, in fact, the backbone of the EU, the backbone of peace, unity, cooperation, the fight for a better future, and I think that this should slowly begin to be promoted in this country, and that the backbone of peace in the Balkans will be exactly the co-operation of our country with neighbours with BiH but also Serbia, because, politically speaking, the conflict between Croatia and Serbia in a certain way has paid the highest price for the former Yugoslavia, and my people of Bosniaks, who I would still say to her, is that if it can be called bow and onions, then, paid the price of tens and tens of thousands of dead, a huge number of displaced and, of course, that still remains unknown, I will be free to say either the head or the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. So what I want to point out today is that in the future, as a new EU member, we contribute that all countries in the region get closer to the EU as soon as possible, so this cooperation will be able to sign some cooperation agreements and in the defence part, but if we are all together in the EU, we won't even have the need to sign these agreements because we'll probably be able to say freed concerns about whether we're going to attack each other and whether we're going to fight each other. So once again we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16387	Thank you, Your Honor. We have thus exhausted the list of respondents to the debate under this bill of law. The debate on the text of the law is over. We will vote when the conditions are met. We move to a decision on the points of the agenda. First, we are going to the Final Proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on cooperation in the field of defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155. The debate on this bill is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 120 votes to pass the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on defence cooperation in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16390	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Before you there is a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF). As you all know, this distinguished home decides when Croatian soldiers are headed for peace operations abroad. During the Chicago summit in May 2012, an Allied strategy was confirmed at a summit in Lisbon according to which the ISAF peace operation would try to end by the end of 2014, while allies showed their commitment to the security and stability of Afghanistan both after 2014 and the completion of one of the so-called so-called the transition process. In this context, NATO's strategic plan for Afghanistan was also adopted as a document that represents a new comprehensive political military vision of NATO's role in Afghanistan. The document is an initial strategic framework for the Chicago summit declaration and is also a political basis for drawing up the concept of a new NATO operation in Afghanistan after 2014. With regard to the readiness of Afghan forces as a key element of the success of the Allied strategy, forces are expected to take over the country's security role in mid-2013. At the same time, BiH is predicted to take full responsibility for its security by the end of 2014, through the implementation of the fourth tranche of the Afghan force, thus fulfilling ISAF operations and allowing the start of NATO's new role in Afghanistan. The basic prerequisite for the successful completion of NATO's engagement is the construction and permanent sustainability of functional Afghan security forces. During the upcoming period following the agreed development of NATO's role in Afghanistan, in the first row of 2013, the Republic of Croatia will continue to engage in training, mentoring and counselling, i.e. by putting emphasis on ensuring critical capabilities necessary for the success of the Allied strategy. In doing so, part of the current mentoring teams will be converted to advisory teams. The Republic of Croatia will, in line with agreed progress in implementing the transition process, developing the situation on the ground, and in parallel with strengthening the capacity of Afghan security forces, reduce overall engagement primarily in those parts that are not directly involved in the mentoring and training processes of Afghan national forces. In doing so, Croatia remains firmly committed to allied efforts to support the Afghan authorities and to the adopted principles of transition that implies the principle of solidarity in common, together outside. Based on the analysis carried out and in order to continue contributing to allied efforts in Afghanistan, it is proposed to make a decision which would reduce the current approved size of the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the 2012 peacekeeping operation from the current size. The Croatian Parliament decided to refer up to 350 members, would be reduced by 50 and 100 members of the Armed Forces, in a way that proposed to send 300 members of the Armed Forces of Croatia from 1 January to 30 April, and from 1 May to 31 December 2013 to 250 members of the Armed Forces. The proposed reduction in the number of members in the peacekeeping mission would ensure continued continuity of the visibility of the engagements of the Republic of Croatia under the ISAF peace operation in line with the tendencies and development of the Allied Strategy and would contribute directly to the further implementation of our share in the construction and stability of Afghanistan. The financial resources for the implementation of this decision will be provided in the following year at the position of the Ministry of Defence's budget in accordance with the 2013 financial plan and also this decision, which is before you, is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report twice a year to the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation in Afghanistan. As for the second part that we have equally united, it is the report that we have taken over from the Croatian Parliament's decision on the participation of the members that we report this House of Higher House on how and how our members participate in Afghanistan. The report covered the period during which it was addressed on 16th, 17th and 18th contingent of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. During that period, 988 members of the Armed Forces were sent in total, including 31 women in the area of surgery. The contingent components involved in the ISAF mission have in different ways acted from national support elements, through the work of individuals at headquarters, headquarters, at different levels of dedicated action of the total unit. Armed Forces members operated in two areas in the two regional commands of Kabul and the north and were deployed to three permanent locations. Contingent components were the commander of the National Contingent with a personal group, the National Intelligence Support Team, the National Logistic Support Team, then the police operational mentoring and liaison teams, the mentoring team at military police school, the air mentor team, the mentoring team for the school logistics, instructors at the training centre and instructors of Afghan forces at school and staff staff. During the reporting period, there were no direct attacks on contingent members. During their stay, members showed exceptional professionalism and respected all procedures and procedures related to the application of safety and protection measures. As in any army, there were some violations of military discipline within 18 contingents. It was related to the irregular use of firearms with the result of self-inflicted, a gunshot to the left of our member, which also resulted in the wounding of members of the Belgian forces. However, these events have at no time disrupted the willingness or ability of our contingent. Members of the Armed Forces on a peacekeeping mission have performed professionally, conscientiously, without major problems and for their professional activities in the report you could see that some of them are praised and rewarded with the highest awards given by NATO. The funds for covering the peace operation in Afghanistan for the reporting period were also secured in the state budget in the division of the Ministry of Defence, amounted to around 380 million kuna and we believe that the experience gained from the peace operation in Afghanistan and we call it the lessons learned to contribute to better preparation and training of members for participation in other peace missions and operations abroad. I therefore submit this report to you for adoption. And perhaps just one more piece of data today is in Brussels for the NATO defence ministers and it is expected that today the defence ministers will adopt political guidelines on the course of a further reduction in NATO's participation in the operation in Afghanistan. We think it's an extremely important decision if he sees a fan light today. And in relation to her and the proposed decision we have proposed to you on the number of participations will be visible to what will be the continuation of the operation itself in Afghanistan. Depending on these guidelines, normally the commanders will receive instructions on how to make plans to reduce forces and simply in this direction they will go. For your information, there are also members of our 20 contingents in Afghanistan right now. They are currently 292 of which 97 soldiers, 122 officers, 73 officers, and also among us there are 10 members of our partner countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16391	Thank you too, Deputy Minister Vishna Tafra. The motion for a decision is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Proposer, i.e. the Report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received both acts by mail, both acts were discussed by the Defence Committee. Are you representatives? Oh, no? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate. It is the first club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16392	Dear colleagues and colleagues, for the first time now we have a proposal for a decision to reduce the number of soldiers in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan. Because if I remember correctly, the first decision was made in 2002 when the first contingent was up to 50 members and from then on until the end of 2010. We've increased that number every time. In 2010, it increased to up to 350 members. Now just to clarify one thing. If I understand correctly at this point we have 292 people in Afghanistan that's the correct information? Okay. I'm looking at this topic through three contexts. First, Croatia is a NATO member and membership is binding. There are also those who keep repeating that each state will decide on its own whether, when, where and with what forces it will participate in NATO operations. Is that yours to the end, I doubt it because if it were, then NATO as a military community could never act. Annually for the mission, the Peace Mission in Afghanistan spent around 380 million. Personally, I believe it is a very unsuccessful peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan that can last another 10 years as it has been for 10 years and will not solve the essence of the problem because neither the Afghan police nor the military, nor the state institutions are able to take over an independent continuation of the construction of a sovereign state, and the pension of a mission takes 10 years. What concerns me and I did not get an answer to the question, so the beginning of the next year, or in the first 4 months, that contingent would be reduced to 300, and by the end of 2013 to 250 members. Does Croatia have an exit strategy from this pension mission? Is 2013 the last year of Croatia's participation in this mission or not? Because from this scrawny explanation written that was given, you can't see it. In addition to the proposal for a decision, where the structure will be reduced next year, they may be able to read between the lines and whether there is an exit strategy, whether staff intended for instruction, mentoring staff, military police or a pedestrian company will be reduced in the following year. So, it doesn't matter if the pedestrian company stays as a whole, the military police as a whole, and reduce the mentoring staff that are actually among these 14 components of our forces in Afghanistan the most distributed by business and not by representation. So my first question is to ask if the Croatian government has an exit strategy from a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan? Is 2013 the last year of participation in this mission after, that would be thirteen years? 380 million kuna per year from the state budget must be provided to cover all costs. I'm very glad that the report shows that there were no more serious incidents. Some self-inflicted or car accident or helicopter shooting for me are not more serious incidents and that's very good. However, when I asked the question here a few months ago when we discussed the situation in the Armed Forces how many fighter aircraft we can raise at this point I didn't get an answer to that question. How many helicopters can fly today, I didn't get an answer to that question. The other day, I happened to find out that of the two Antunov-type transport planes, none of them fly, none of them can get off the runway. So now, if 380 million kunas per year are allocated to a peacekeeping mission each year for 10 years for Afghanistan, then I think that the Croatian government should act in a way that tells NATO in 2013 that the final year of Croatia's participation in the peace mission in Afghanistan is the main arguments of financial nature. I think Croatia is sufficiently exhausted financially in this regard and, like many other NATO members, it's enough now, what we could give, what we did, we contributed with great resources, now we have to turn to training, preparation, restoring what is needed by the Croatian military, we think we can use that money to do so. And I believe that after 13 years of participation, no one can, must, and has no right to object if such a decision is made. I therefore regret that we never hear long-term plans in the proposal and in the light of this decision and the opening explanation. This is a year from which it simply cannot see how Croatia will behave in the future. And, of course, it is also important to add that Afghanistan and the NATO peacekeeping mission are not the only peacekeeping mission Croatia is currently participating in. If I remember correctly at this time, there are about 18 peacekeeping missions that NATO is participating in. It is now time, given that we have declared a general alert and ordered general savings in Croatia in all aspects, that this also applies to Croatia's participation in UN and NATO peacekeeping missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16393	Thank you very much. The next club is club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. Here's your Honorable representative, Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16394	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, representatives of the government. We are ahead of us with this decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan ISAF. What's the point? The United States has decided to withdraw some 120,000 troops from its contingent this year. Thus, this decision, literally referred to in Article 1, is on the trail of Obama’s decision. "In a peace operation in Afghanistan, ISAF with the possibility of rotation in 2013, it is said, meaning from 1 January to 30 April 2013, up to 300 members of the Armed Forces." They are now in Afghanistan 292, with the decision that there may be up to 350 soldiers of the Croatian Army in Afghanistan and in this point 2 says "From 1 May to 31 December 2013, there may be up to 250 members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan". So this contingent should be reduced by 42 Croatian soldiers. In my personal opinion, and I started voting first, but I'm saying it on my own, against sending Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan, it's good that it means the number of soldiers is shrinking. Maybe it would have been even better if we had pulled the army out of Afghanistan a few years ago. I said, it's my private opinion, but today and in a whole series of countries starting in France, President Holland openly says that in 2012, or 2013 he will withdraw his entire contingent from Afghanistan precisely because of the fact that this mission did not bear fruit. Why should it mean withdrawing an army, or withdrawing an army? Well, because I said that mission didn't bear fruit. It's a good thing our soldiers are fantastically trained for these operations and there was no boredom of the dead. There was one wound, there were several shootings of helicopters, etc., there were several of those pockets where they found themselves but no one died. It should certainly be appreciated by the experience that our soldiers draw for you, the vast majority of them, from the Homeland War. Before that, we heard that there were 73 officers in the 292 contingent of Croatian soldiers, 122 officers of whom many simply were in the Croatian Army units in the period from '91. '95. Some of them were on multiple missions in Afghanistan. It is clear that after the attack of this Al-Quaida on America, one decisive answer was to follow. And in '92. year I was absolutely for Croatia to send its own to Afghanistan to say group or my own platoon or what we had then those 50 soldiers. But on one side of the war in Iraq parallel to Afghanistan, it only led to this Muslim world, I'm going to call it, radically radicalized in that space of the Middle East. That the world after these wars is in no way safer. Finally, I don't think the Western hemisphere has to be a cop in that space. It has been shown that intervention in Iraq has been an open aggression, I will say parts of the West, to that country, and in that context, such an unfair war in Iraq could not or will not succeed in this mission in Afghanistan. It also bothers me that, in the light of these decisions of ours, when it means talking about these missions and sending Croatian soldiers outside the borders, we're not talking about the dead, we're not talking about the wounded, we're not talking about costs, we're not talking about these projections of that system. As far as the cost per soldier is concerned, Croatia sets out annually, according to the soldier I said, cca million kunas may be a little bit more. We said earlier in that period from 2002 to today we had one wounded. In Afghanistan before I said I mentioned this pay phone only from 2002 until last month, they had 2350 dead soldiers, 17644 wounded. So we can say that NATO troops had over 3,000 dead soldiers and some 25,000 wounded. Unfortunately, even during the period ahead of us, many will still suffer. The Soviet Union had 14453 dead and 150,000 wounded. The South is much quieter today than it was. There are clashes along the Pakistani border, I'm afraid it's going to get worse. I said the U.S. states are withdrawing 33,000 troops this year from the contingent currently present. Our boys have to go clearly to Afghanistan because it's a matter of political will, that's their choice. Afterwards, many of them progress within the system but really need to be grateful for the professionalism that draws attention to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I personally hope that war will end there as soon as possible, but the consequences of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan will follow us all for a long time. I'd like this world to be much more peaceful, but I doubt that's gonna happen. Croatia is absolutely to be said by the NATO member state, NATO binds us, NATO is a security umbrella in Europe. How successful is it out of Europe that this military mission in Afghanistan will show? That's one question. How long will this mission in Afghanistan last? Probably not for a very long time. It all depends on the US on the political changes that will take place there. If the Americans pull out, everybody's pulling out with them. When Americans get into something with them, they get into it. We are obliged to participate in maintenance I would say peace or international peace. Do we, on the other hand, have to participate in imposing peace? Croatia was receiving military assistance through UNPROFOR. Many third country soldiers have laid down their lives in order to maintain peace in these areas. We must be grateful to them. Today, Croatia is in a position to provide military assistance worldwide. So we're in an incomparably better position today than we were 20 years ago. Someone mentioned that the mission costs about $380 million a year. The Republic of Croatia's defence budget if I'm not mistaken for this year 4.2, 4.7 billion kuna. So we've been an entire military budget since 2002, and I'm like, I'm making it simple. It's all very easy and it's easy to figure out if it's for the mission in Afghanistan or whether we're or whether we're targeting NATO for that mission in Afghanistan, there's a lot of money. It is clear what Lesar was saying just before the modernisation of the Croatian Army was necessary but it is also necessary and solidarity in missions around the world. But the question is whether it's a duty to participate in lost missions. Here, in an assessment of the situation so far, it is said that NATO has taken over the command and coordination of the ISAF of 11 August 2003, currently participating 50 other countries besides NATO members, 28 of them are participating in 22 of them at this time, some 130,000 of them, the basic precondition for the successful completion of NATO engagements is the construction and permanent sustainability of the functional Afghan security forces. What's going to happen there? That's what we're talking about next. But what's certainly so far been characteristic of this decision that the number of soldiers has been steadily increasing. From this year on, either from next year on, I'm sorry, or this decision is gonna cut back. Thus, by decision of the Croatian Parliament of 12 December 2002, I believe that decision was unanimously decided to take 50 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to Afghanistan. 1st of 1st of 2005. There were already 150 members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. December 8, 2006, we reach a decision of up to 200 members staying in Afghanistan, then I voted for the first time against increasing the contingent. The decision of the Croatian Parliament of 15th April 2008 spoke or approved the participation of up to 300 members of the Armed Forces, 11 December 2009 means up to 320 members, and 10 December 2010 it was decided that up to 350 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia could participate in Afghanistan. I said, from 1st January to 30th of April 2013, in Afghanistan, the number from 350 falls to 300 although at the moment 292 soldiers of the Croatian Croatian Army are there, and after 1st of May 2013, by 31st December there will be around 250 members of the armed forces. And for the end, that absolutely Croatia must because of the solidarity of UNPROFOR etc. to participate in international missions but the question is whether we should participate in "lost missions". Clearly, it is the position of the political leadership of the Republic of Croatia, the IDS will vote on its conscience, perhaps one is against, two will be for and that is so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16395	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next is the HDZ club and respected representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan, as well as the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. How in the upcoming period through the gradual implementation of the transition phase of ISAF operations essentially changes nature, and the end was planned for 2014. The focus of the mission becomes an advisory role. This involves reducing the fighting forces, increasing the share of mentoring and advisory teams and relying more on the protection of facilities, institutions and forces from the Afghan side. This does not mean, of course, the complete completion of the NATO Force operation but a new approach to ensuring adequate support for Afghan security forces in order to be able to take over their responsibilities, and during the upcoming period of the agreed development of NATO's role in Afghanistan, the Republic of Croatia will continue its engagement in the field of training, mentoring and counselling, and will re-schedul part of the current mentor teams into advisory teams. The Republic of Croatia will thus reduce the total number of engagements, primarily in those parts that are not directly involved in the mentoring and training process of the National Forces of Afghanistan. This was planned during 2013 to reduce members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by 50 and 100 members of the Armed Forces, respectively, which should be said and seen from the financial point of view, although this will be a significant discharge and the budget of the MARH in 2013 because we heard that about one member of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan is about a million kuna. So it will be a significant savings for the state budget. I do not think there is a need here to point out in particular what the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peacekeeping mission meant for the Republic of Croatia, that it has greatly contributed to the construction and maintenance of its own international credibility and responsibilities and positions and positions of the Republic of Croatia in the International Community, the United Nations, the NATO Alliance and, of course, to the future members of the European Union, and this has also been the strengthening of our own national security, but also the security of our allies, because Croatia as a responsible member of the NATO alliance and it is very much to be taken into account. The same is true with the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces during that period. We believe that this report should be supported, that this report is good and realistic and shows the conditions and methods of carrying out that part of the responsibility within the mission belonging to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. And as I said, from all this and this proposal for a decision, as well as the report on the participation of the HDZ club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16397	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Sandra Petrovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear proposings, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club of Croatia will also support this report and the proposed Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the parliamentary procedure as follows, from 1 January to 30 April 2013, to 300 members of the Armed Forces, and from 1 May to 31 December 2013, we refer up to 250 members of the Armed Forces. The most important element of this decision is the reduction of the number of members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. As prescribed and usual in the participation of the Croatian Parliament as the institution responsible for the decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to peacekeeping operations and report on these operations. This is an important time for the Croatian public to report on the activities, the way and the course of the operation, the way and the course of participation of Croatian members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation. This decision was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, also with the prior consent of the President of the Republic, and the funds as we could read will be secured in the budget of the Republic of Croatia in the division of the Ministry of Defence. As is usual for the current financing of participation in peace operations until the finality of the decision on referral is one more step, which is to confirm this decision in the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about this decision, about sending members, it should be noted that according to NATO's stances and policies, the number of members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF peace operation has been reduced, and therefore reduced as has been said by the representatives of the HDZ Club, the financial cost needed for this undertaking is also reduced. Every soldier we had a chance to hear on the Defence Committee is costing the Republic of Croatia around 700,000 kuna and the budgets for the following year are significantly reduced, i.e. the financial cost is reduced by the reduction of the number of members set out in this decision. I would just like to note that while visiting NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen recently, Prime Minister Milanovic made it clear that the position of the Republic of Croatia regarding NATO membership and the obligations of the Republic of Croatia is as a member, which is that the Republic of Croatia will respect and consistently implement NATO's policies all together inside, all together outside and will keep its members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan as long as NATO remains there. Also, the Republic of Croatia will gradually withdraw its members of the Armed Forces in line with NATO's decision from Lisbon until 2014. In this way, we believe that Croatia shows no more than 20 years since the end of war destruction, the Republic of Croatia shows a high level of responsibility for international peace and, in that sense, a high degree of political maturity in the area of defence. On this issue, neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the President nor the Croatian Parliament have been able to reach greater obstacles, and the position of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club is that such a standard of conduct in the context of participation in the peace operations that lead to the establishment of international peace should continue. Since the decision to refer members of the Armed Forces to the ISAF peacekeeping operation is linked to a joint discussion with a report on participation in the same peacekeeping operation from 1 September 2010 until 31 March 2012. We're discussing a period of a year and a half. This period has been marked by the participation of 16, 17 and 18 contingents, with 988 members of the entire period, of which 31 brave and honorable women members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia should be mentioned in particular. During a given period, the Croatian Parliament made decisions on referrals constantly increasing the number of members, all to make a direct contribution to the construction and stability of Afghanistan. Now that the number of members is shrinking, we believe that there is no need to question the need for inclusion but to consistently implement the policy we have taken in relation to the situation in Afghanistan. The peace operation isn't over, it's still going on, conflicts still exist. In Afghanistan, however, conditions must simply be created for the country's independent functioning without NATO, without military assistance. Croatian soldiers who have been intensively engaged in support and training to the Afghan national security forces while they should continue their activities until final withdrawal. The SDP Club will therefore support the report and the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace operation as well as the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16399	Thank you very much. The next is for discussion on behalf of the HNS club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Secretary of Defense, dear colleagues and colleagues. Very likely in this hall but also in the streets of our cities it would be very difficult to find a man who is satisfied with the fact that we are in a position to send our people into combat missions outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And precisely because of the weight of the issue, the decision-making task was put on the Croatian Assembly. In Afghanistan, it is undoubtedly clear and it is clear to all those who know matter that they will be shot for a long time until that country and that nation find their way to establishing a normal society, democratically arranged, peaceful, whether or not ever. I'm coming back to the conclusion that we're certainly not happy about the fact that our boys are there. But when we explain it to the citizens, we have to tell them why they're there. They are there primarily if we want to speak sincerely because of the fact that Croatia is a member of the NATO alliance and as such there is also a certain part of the obligations that Croatia must assume and which it must fulfil. We can be happy that the report and all reports so far have been written that we have no victims and will be well and we will certainly be happy and satisfied if such reports are written and concluded with the end of our military presence in missions in Afghanistan. Someone mentioned the price of 380 million kuna and said their own personal and club view about it. I will personally say that I am satisfied with the price being shown in kunas. God forbid we have to show it in something else. 380 million kunas are large funds for Croatia's state budget, but Croatia is as a NATO member and is in a position to achieve its security and integrity of borders precisely thanks to this membership. The alternative to NATO would be to conduct an independent defence policy, to form its armed forces that would be ready to respond to any threat and to harm the border and security of the Republic of Croatia. The cost of maintaining such a system I assure you would be with another zero behind, and the question of whether these funds would be sufficient. That is the truth that we must look to as a Parliament and make it quite clear. Croatia is now, and for decades in the future, it will be announced that it will be a NATO member and we do not expect it to cost us anything, and that this huge battle machine and system will pay for countries that are in a worse crisis than us, such as Greece, such as Portugal, such as Italy, and ultimately the United States itself. So much for the cost of our stay in Afghanistan. We've been in Afghanistan since 2002. The decision we must make is only one in a series of decisions made by the Croatian Parliament in the last few terms in order to create legal frameworks and justification for the presence of our people there. What we owe as a country and as a Parliament provides them with adequate equipment, training and doing everything possible to keep their stay there as safe as possible and to get everyone home. What encourages the plans brought by NATO member states and the countries participating in the operation in Afghanistan is the conclusion that, according to the ISAF's concept of operations, the operation in its battle section is slowly coming into the final stage, which confirms the number of members we must refer to in the first wave and in the second wave, which decreases to 300 to 250, will also drop the cost level. A new approach was adopted in Chicago in 2012, which will allow for 2014 and will also ensure that members of the Armed Forces from NATO countries and partner countries will be present behind 2014 but highlighted in another model and approach that will rely more on mentoring and on providing professional support and less on participation in combat operations themselves. Due to the fact that our presence in Afghanistan is not a matter of hira but of internationally assumed obligations of the Republic of Croatia, that this presence is conditioned by the fact that we are part of the NATO system that we are part of and which we are using, because of the fact that this decision is inevitable although we personally all in the depth of the soul wish that the day in this House will not be on the agenda of these points of the agenda as responsible people who see politics realistically and seek a way through the priorities of the HNS club, wishing that all of our boys who are now heading home alive and healthy will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16401	Next in line for the debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16402	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. So here in these several debates are various arguments, opinions and views about the role of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF mission in Afghanistan, certainly about the war itself in Afghanistan and those who are closely involved in it have written tens of thousands of pages and are not in favour of almost anything about this war, always depends on which side the whole situation is being observed. I would mention, there are several different aspects of that war to which you can refer. When it comes to the victims of that war and the casualties, the predecessors mentioned something, the civilian victims of that war should also be mentioned. So, in Afghanistan, as the ISAF mission has moved away over the past few years, the number of civilian victims of the war has been growing exponentially, so civilian victims who are directly victims of war or various terrorist attacks that occur almost daily in that country. In the past year, more than 3,000 people were directly injured as civilian victims of these activities in Afghanistan, and the number is increasing year by year. Also, this increase in civilian casualties may be an even more visible indicator of the success of the operation that has been carried out in Afghanistan for years. When it comes to the costs of the operation itself, those costs borne by the Republic of Croatia in that mission are certainly human life primary, but this financial cost of the price paid by the Republic of Croatia for this mission is as financial, as the predecessors are very high, and we mention it precisely because a whole series of measures are under way or will be linked to the problem of lack of financial resources. So we have a few points ahead of us on the point of reducing the benefits of a work experience where exactly the argument in fact is a lack of financial resources and savings that the MORH will achieve. So also part of our current members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan who are therefore active there as advisers currently do not have an unfettered working position unlike our ballerinas, firemen and others right now. When it comes to the participation of Croatian soldiers in the mission, one information that is not visible and not clear is how many members have participated in the ISAF mission at all? I mean physically to individuals, given that a whole series of members were multi-routing on these missions. Also, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are strained through these ISAF missions because part of the Armed Forces is located there, part of the members are being prepared, part of the members were being recovered, and a good part of the members participates in training, the preparation of those who are now there or who will soon go there. So several thousand members of the Armed Forces are involved in the ISAF mission's participation at all times. And on these other peace missions in which the Republic of Croatia participates, in numerous peacekeeping missions. It is clear that the Republic of Croatia has international commitments and that this participation stems from these internationally undertaken commitments. And that the Republic of Croatia is not an island, that it is a small state that must accept those obligations it has made and implement them. And that we don't have the size and strength of a state level of France that can or may at some point say no. However, when it comes to the number of members, it may be possible to do more and to assume that the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating in the ISAF mission is significantly faster. In addition to the commitments we have made, the political effects, financial, economic or results achieved through this participation of the Republic of Croatia are not clarified. However, we must primarily look at our national, economic, social interests, and yet this is the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, at this point, I am not sure that we are participating in this number, we are practically the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF mission at all, because it is already less than 300, so we are only reducing that framework and the number of members is now below 300. Therefore, we as the HDSSB Representatives' Club in this difficult economic situation in which the state is located and with such very vague arguments, which are why the Republic of Croatia continues to participate in the ISAF mission in this large number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16403	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the National Minority Club is Honored Representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16404	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with his associates, Madam Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to express my regret that this war is even going on and we need to appear there together with others, that war as a way of resolving international relations or interests is not a good thing, and I hope that sooner or later on the globe of the Earth, the attitude we all know will prevail, but we are not yet prepared and achieved that level of development that we accept, so the war does not solve problems but only brings them and imposes new ones. We in the National Minorities Club don't have an eye on both this law and on this report a decidated attitude, so here I have every opinion, so we're going to vote for personal guidance. I will personally support the proposal for the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan and this 2010-2012 report, not because I am happy that they are there but simply because, as a member of NATO and a member of the UN, I would have to say something and sacrifice and engage and be part of the international processes that they are. Whether they have noble initiatives or not, whether they are pure hearts about it being discussed but we have an obligation as a NATO member and I will personally support it. What I want to point out on this occasion is that our girls and boys who go there in addition to the professional military knowledge they have unquestionably undergo one familiarity training that they are going to, therefore, go through the training of people who are members of Islamic religion who live in a completely different traditional way and what I want to say is that these people are being trained by members of the Islamic community in the Republic and that they are being trained by both the highest and most prominent members of the Islamic community provided for by the newly elected Mufti Dr. Aziza Hasanovic. Of course, such training as can be done by people living in the principles of Islamic religion, I personally cannot commend myself, but I appreciate all those who live in a modest and moral way no matter what religion they are. So I point out this because we in Croatia also have to develop our society to be open to others, to be aware that we live in differences, to be aware that these differences will be that I would say more and more and that we will live more and more together in view of the situation in the world as it is. And that's why I love once again that messages like us Parliamentarians that we send out of this assembly are on the trail of meeting each other and not on the trail of denial. Every word and less force spoken in the assembly we have this information from the field, is understood in a very different way in the field so that we have not yet, of course, built a society that is not burdened with others, which is not burdened, and in particular there are I would say members of the Islamic religion not only with us but also in the world. There is one perception that through religion we are bound by certain things that are absolutely not standing. I would so much like to continue in this Parliament and through our work the construction of Croatian society as a multi-ethnic, multinational, multi-confessional and to make these differences rich rather than be a source of problems for anyone on the ground. So, once again, I will personally support and colleagues from the club will vote according to their guidance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16405	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the debate on behalf of the clubs. The individual debate was also attended by a respected representative, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy. A report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Operation in Afghanistan and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Peace Operation were also discussed by fellow representatives on behalf of the HNS Club and Liberal Democrats Mr Petar Baranovic and clear Mrs Tafra. I would draw from the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Peace Operation in Afghanistan one claim that I fully agree with, which reads "participating in peace operations is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world". On 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the NATO alliance. All MPs voted for that decision except for one person. All MPs except for this one person, regardless of the political party or option, were then aware of the historic moment of entry into the most significant military-political alliance in the world. At that moment, they were aware of the responsibility for the true, real safety of Croatia, or its citizens and citizens. The primary function of each country to ensure a safe life for its citizens and citizens, citizens knowingly transferred some of their freedoms to the state to restore their freedom to security and thus gave the citizens the right to the state and only to the repressive interior police apparatus for the external army. Security for Croatian citizens is certainly not the same as for citizens of other NATO members or EU citizens. Croatia is the only one of all NATO countries that has passed through its immediate history on its ground bloody, imposed a long-standing war on it. By doing so, we are all or at least a large majority particularly sensitive to the country's security and military issues at all. Along with these unfortunate war events, Croatia unfortunately has real experiences of war from the recent past, and the Croatian Army has created its foundations during the Homeland War. More fresh memories, as much as we try to forget, are in those first moments of attack on Croatia as we all watched the refugees of Croatian citizens, the great shelling, the destruction of our cities and villages. There are still fresh memories of traumatic departures to basements and shelters, darkening windows, sticking black lids to car headlights, intense alarms, fear and infidelity that this is happening to us at all. We remember the exits from the shelter after the alarms with great fear of who had suffered ours or not, which was destroyed, which another of our symbols was destroyed by a mindless shelling, which our dear visor irretrievably went to waste by a mad rocket attack. To the citizens of Croatia, security means something completely different than any of the NATO alliances. The clearly expressed desire to join the European Union and NATO Croatia has managed to obtain recognition of all NATO members during its communication with other members and participation in international security missions, its efforts and certain political progress and certainly because of its invaluable unique military experience and has become a full 28th member of NATO in 2009. This far-sighted decision by almost all members of the then Croatian Parliament allowed Croatia to participate in all discussions on all aspects of the world's security policy sitting at the same table with all other NATO members with the most developed countries in the world. The NATO Alliance is a political-defense alliance of 28 countries that contain in strict rules provisions on the protection of common civilization cultural values and the provision that an attack on one NATO member also means an attack on all other members. By entering full NATO membership, Croatia probably has long ensured stability and peace for its citizens, and stability and peace are the son of quanton of any progress. By joining NATO, and especially by entering the European Union, Croatia through the framework of security and stability finally gets such an important prerequisite and opportunity for uninterrupted development. But by entering these associations, this is certainly not the end but only one of the beginnings of the development of Croatia's state and society, but Croatia also takes on completely other responsibilities and tasks in a security sense not only of itself but also of its own regions and beyond. We Liberals believe that no one should be indifferent to other people's suffering, no matter where the part of the world is the person, or people who suffer. It is important to us liberals how people live today in Burkina Faso, Myanmar, Somalia, Sudan or Afghanistan. We stand on the principle that every human being is born with four uncircumcised rights: the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. In Afghanistan, the Taliban regime was the refuge of terrorists and their organisations against which the entire free world was raised, and NATO took over the leadership of the ISAF international forces tasked with establishing democratic order and security-defense mechanisms in Afghanistan. In addition to these clear objectives and tasks involving the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, an important component of the incredibly cruel laws of the Taliban regime in not only destruction, but denial of any human rights, especially women's rights. The Taliban regime was so terriblely cruel to women that it itself could have been enough to start the entire international community. Thanks to the 11-year-old peacekeeping operation of ISAF and NATO under NATO leadership today, Afghanistan is a different country. The prices paid both by NATO members and Afghan citizens and citizens are large, primarily by human lives, but also by money. But I believe that profit is immeasurable, in the freedoms of individuals or individuals, in the security of the state, in the development of democratic standards, in the development of society, and in the framework of security and stability of the wider region. In this we can proudly point out as one of the most noted participants participated and participated Croatia with its Armed Forces contingent in 2002, especially as a full member after joining NATO in 2009. As head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am in permanent contact with fellow NATO parliamentarians, but with various NATO operatives separated to political personnel. Everyone, especially colleagues from the United States, points out the unusually high quality and professionality of our soldiers in ISAF peacekeeping operations. Such a maximum... The approach to carrying out NATO tasks makes Croatia a serious and responsible member of the International Community, and this certainly helps the overall development of the International Community, as well as Croatia itself. [[You don't understand.]] It is certainly important to highlight other than the benefits arising from the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in the NATO-led peacekeeping operation of the ISAF in Afghanistan, including the establishment of high standards of defence forces for Afghanistan, the democratisation of Afghanistan as a state and the very important rise of human rights standards, especially women in Afghanistan, as well as continuous communication and exchange of experiences and technological and operational innovation among NATO members. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is one of the levers of permanent communication, but also the promotion of Croatian views and politics among members of the parliaments of other NATO members and I will personally support the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan, as well as the decision to participate members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16407	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16408	In order not to be inconceivable, Mr Blazekovic said in his debate that the parliament had brought a large majority of those who were aware, the responsible actually voted in favour of joining NATO all but one. He didn't say that the gentleman who didn't vote was unconscious and wasn't responsible should explain why the one didn't vote. Since Mr. Blazekovic didn't name it, I won't name who it was either. The one representative was not against Croatia's entry into NATO but was against the way Croatia entered the NATO alliance. Croatian Labourists and the Labour Party support such a way, which is when we give up part of the sovereignty in the Republic of Croatia then we believe that the people should decide, and the people can decide in the referendum. Therefore, it would be a responsible entry into the NATO alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16409	Thank you very much. The second is a replica of the distinguished representative of Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16410	Thank you very much. Comrade Blažekovic, I support your speech, but it has asked me to report when you say you should not be indifferent to other people's suffering. I really agree with you, but I also think that we should not first be indifferent to the sufferings of the Croatian people. But we are totally indifferent, we remain indifferent, and we only report when it suits us and then we show a pate to the dead, praise to the Croatian defenders. But in fact, if you asked kids what was in the Homeland War today, they wouldn't have any idea what Croatian heroes would have no idea. And at the same time, we dive crocodile tears for others. I repeat again we must be a people and as NATO members we must fight and fight for others, but we must first resolve the situation at home. When there are still over 1600 missing in Croatia, when the issue of the Croatian people during the Homeland War is not resolved, you say the Taliban were cruel to women. Yes, they were cruel. And weren't the cruel attacks on Croatia when the paramilitary units and the Serb-ready raped women in Vukovar? That hasn't been settled until today. And today you have underage defenders who protested here in front of the church of St. Mark because their status hasn't been resolved today. So, I'd like to do it before we help others, before we feel like someone else's accident that we feel a little bit more about our accident and a little bit more about the problems in our own backyard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16411	Thank you very much. And the proposer's representative, the distinguished Deputy Defence Minister Višnja Tafra, will now have a final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I really want to thank all those who took part, all the parliamentary representatives in this debate, which is extremely important to us. So all the praises and criticisms we have received are for us an indication that the following reports are better prepared and that this High House is familiar with everything that is happening to our members of the Armed Forces in peace operations. One of our colleagues here pointed out that our members are participating in 18 peacekeeping missions. We are currently participating in 9 crisis response operations with 432 members and 6 United Nations operations with 117 members. There are 20 in Somalia and atalanta 4 in KFOR with 2 helicopters. You also asked me how many members of the Armed Forces went through the ISAF mission. Your answer is 3871 A member of the Armed Forces has passed through the ISAF mission and I can proudly say that it is 127 women. Also those who have asked whether Croatia has an exit strategy for Afghanistan will agree Croatia's exit strategy along with its NATO partners. But what we know for sure at this point, which is that it is going to shrink, means our members in the section relating to the fighting structure, and they will start to mean in cooperation with our regional partners who want to join the operation in Afghanistan, and that is primarily in the construction of civilian institutions of Afghanistan, and we will also try to pass on to them our experience that we have from the field of training, mentoring, and especially what we are proud of, and that is military police school. I also have to tell Mr. Djuric from this pay phone that he said something that doesn't stand. You will discuss, in the next item of the agenda, the reduction of the benefits of the training of members of the Armed Forces or of the active military personnel. However, no person who is present and an active military person in a peace operation has been confiscated. You can read this meaning both in the law and in the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under this law. The Ministry of Defence has been determined to reduce the benefits of a military service to persons involved in military activities, but not in any case to persons who are members of the Guard brigades and persons involved in peacekeeping operations. The benefited internship will no longer have a person by status but will have it according to the duty and place of business he is acting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16413	Thank you very much. And we have one replica of the distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. We are aware that Croatia has made commitments to NATO as well, but we can, and I think all of us here in this Croatian Assembly say thank God that everyone has returned alive and is coming back from Afghanistan alive and that the only solution we have to strive to have no more Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan or in other peace missions. The fact is that since many are working, and it does not stand in the report, but the fact that many soldiers I would say are not forced but are just leaving for peace missions for those pure, practical, economic reasons to ensure life for their children and their family. On the other hand, Croatia acts as a drunk billionaire. There's a military polygon in the Gashinci where you have practically a training centre for soldiers among other things there was training for Afghanistan that complete polygon and I'm not happy with that answer you gave me, obviously ready for one long-term, so move and abandonment. And this camp or facility that was trained by Croatian soldiers who went on peacekeeping missions has now grown into weeds. So here I invite you to here as deputy minister since the minister was in the Gasinci the other day near Djakov to come and examine this polygon where practically all military tools such as tanks were moved and so on. And as I hear they've been transferred to Požeg, and this is one of the largest polygons since Slunj in Croatia, even in that former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16415	Thank you very much. This would end the debate, a united debate on the text of the proposal and the report. I'm closing the debate. We'll hold the vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16416	Next, a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF). The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes with 108 votes in favour, 1 against and 9 abstentions have been decided on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan (ISAF) in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16445	The next item of the agenda is - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Employment Intervention and Rights Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 105 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've all received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received reports from those committees at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16446	Dear Mr Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs are before you a draft final draft of the Law on the Completion of the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. One brief change in the law. What the Employment Service is waiting for next year, especially by joining the EU, is that the Croatian Employment Service will play a central role in employment policy, especially in cooperation with the European Social Fund and in cooperation with the same and similar EU institutions. As we enter the EU, we enter the 2-3-2 system, so for two years, the employment regime in Croatia will be the same or similar as it is now, and in the next three years we start opening the market in Croatia, but the EU market in the last two years will be the complete opening of the market itself. Therefore, we must be prepared to meet both the institution and the organisational response to these challenges that await us. As you know, the European Social Fund is one of the EU Structural Funds, which we expect very large funds to allow for the adjustment of the labour market in Croatia to be made to one large labour market in the EU, in particular by opening up opportunities for funding employment-related activities, facilitating access to the labour market by particularly sensitive groups, improving the knowledge and skills of the active population, increasing the adaptability of the workforce and businesses, strengthening social inclusion and, of course, the fight against labour market discrimination. With these amendments, we also edit the entire system that is related to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Therefore, all institutions and agencies and funds have directors, i.e. assistant directors and deputy directors. So, so far, only the Employment Service has been involved in some way by assistants. So now we're just empowering them and editing the entire system. Therefore, the proposed legislative proposal regulates that the director of the office may have one or more assistants which I have already mentioned enables him to manage the office more effectively. What is on the other hand is also the fact that this change will not increase the funds allocated to salaries at the Employment Office. In this past period since the first reading to this day there has been no objections, so here we propose a draft law Final bill for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16447	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Obviously not. Then we'd move on to the debate. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the first member of parliament, Vanja Posavac, appeared for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16448	I thank the esteemed vice president, ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Employment and Rights Intervention Act. Namely, the Croatian Employment Service has an extremely important function and a great deal of work. The Employment and Employment Rights Law regulates employment mediation, professional guidance, education in order to increase employment, unemployment insurance, active labour market activity in order to promote the spatial and professional mobility of the workforce, and new employment and self-employment. The Institute is the leading institution in the Croatian labour market, and it will also play a very important role in employment policy measures after joining the EU. We all agree that there is a large percentage of unemployment and that it needs to be reduced. It is also in this segment that the Institute bears great responsibility in implementing the employment policy measures implemented. It will be very important to co-operate with the European Social Fund, which is one of the EU's structural funds, which among other things encourages increasing employment and raising the readiness of labour force and economic operators to face new global challenges on the world market. Funding from European social funds covers all EU member states and their regions, especially those lagging behind in economic development. It is precisely through EU membership in the Republic of Croatia that new opportunities are being opened through the Institute to finance employment-related activities, facilitate access to the labour market, improve the knowledge and skills of the active population, increase the adaptability of the company's workforce, strengthen social inclusion and combat discrimination on the labour market. Due to the volume of work already in place by the Croatian Employment Service, which will also increase by entering the EU because of the large responsibility the Institute has in implementing employment policy measures and timely preparation for the EU, the SDP club considers it justified that the Institute has one or more assistants, which enables efficient management of the Institute. This is also the way of coordinating the institution's structure with the existing structure of other public institutions such as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, etc. We believe it is good for the assistant directors to appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the work, as this will increase the level of responsibility of all assistants. The number of assistant directors of part-time work, powers and responsibilities of assistant directors will be determined by the Statute of the Office. For this reason, the SDP supports the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, and we believe that it is absolutely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16449	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Here is an amendment to the Employment Intermediation Act, which will indeed be a major contribution to resolving the dramatic situation in the Croatian labour market. A few months ago, you changed the law and introduced the deputy director's office, and now you've remembered that you probably need to house another party soldier, so here you are installing a few more assistants. 316 thousand 385 registered unemployed persons were registered yesterday. Today, the figure is likely to be increased by more than 500 or maybe a thousand. In a month and a half or less than a month and a half, 16 thousand more, at the end of August 301 thousand. But for the first time, you managed to make unemployment grow during the tourist season. It really didn't work out for anyone. The most dangerous dramatic job loss in the real sector is the everyday phenomenon. These are just some of the facts that characterize the dramatic situation today on the Croatian labour market. Of course, these facts are not the result of the work or the unhappiness of your ministry, they are the result of the completely missed economic policy of your government as a whole and the consequences of the measures that have been taken in these nine months, which are going systematically towards the asphyxiation of the Croatian economy, the deterioration of business conditions and competitiveness. GDP decline in consumption, drop in investment, drop in industrial production compared to the same period last year, unfortunately they are taking daily work market today. And this traffic light on the Croatian Employment Service site, which you are so proud of, is actually the most obvious barometer of your government's failure. And that is why it is absolutely amazing that although faced with the huge problems of the Croatian economy, with the daily loss of hundreds of jobs in the real sector, threatening bankruptcy and public sector cancellations, you are sending to the House of Legislative Amendments which increase space for political appointments. But actually that's what to expect because that's what you're consistent with in your entire current term. Well, that's a measure to measure. The Croatian Employment Service should be a professional and highly professional institution, so when the director should already have assistants, why not at least leave him the possibility of choosing them himself? This kind of law, the HDZ club, can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16451	Thank you very much. The following came to the debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16452	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We have a really revolutionary law ahead of us. At least I think the law at the HDSSB club thinks that by the next session of the Assembly we heard that yesterday there were 316 thousand 385 unemployed not to increase but to reduce and that in Croatia behind the New Year we will have a tendency but above all the possibility of importing labour because there is indeed a revolutionary law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment. Someone who really follows these meetings of the Assembly or does not follow them so often would think that there is finally a law on the benches of MPs that will allow for the reduction of unemployment in the Republic of Croatia, that it will be one law that will be on at least one twenty sheets, that there will be several articles, several political, economic decisions that will allow for the reduction of unemployment. However, this bill has practically one article and Article 2 that he enters into force on the 8th day of publication in the National Journal, and it consists of that director of the Croatian Employment Service who has also his deputies can now have one or more assistants so that the work of the Croatian Employment Service and all those unemployed who break down that door at the employment offices except for these young people can even have difficulty for those thousands of 600 kunas because they are not defined exactly the rules of the game, will simply be here from the next day or from the day of publication in the National Journal I believe and I am saying this primarily sarcastically have a better and happier future in Croatia that will contribute to the opening of new jobs, increasing industrial production, increasing exports, increasing citizens' standards. So here's why I'm not longer than I'm simply going to refer the open question to the minister, how many assistants, regardless of the public tender, what are they called, from which political parties are they coming? Are there two from the SDP, one from the HNS, or is it one from the IDS, or is it possibly going to be one from HSU not to mention the National Minority Club and the SDSS? We have been witnessing backwards these few months that public tenders and if there were farces, that the deputy ministers, the ministerial assistants, were coming exclusively party likes and listeners, which I think is a matter of the current authorities in the Republic of Croatia but to create a law that will mark the revolution I remember now that advertising for certain telecommunications services, gentlemen you have really exaggerated, you have really exaggerated. Although I understand this very well because surely that godfather of mine who answered his cell phone earlier will certainly not have and become an assistant director, regardless of what he may have but will be a party likeer and a party hearer. So here, if he hears me, I continue to advise him to enroll in certain political parties as soon as possible in order to ensure that he has his activities and activities in accordance with this law to reduce this relatively small number of unemployed, so those who are registered at the HZZ, who in this dark everyday life only have the function of registering people who are unemployed, and there is no function in developing new jobs, although his name only tells him that it is the Croatian Employment Service, so it might be better to rename him to the Croatian Institute for Registration of Unemployed in the Republic of Croatia and probably in doing so, and since this policy is being conducted that he will need not one or more assistants but will need at least 20 of them. The HDSSB club will not support this law because it is again about political entrenched party listeners, I would not call them party soldiers because many were not even in the party, but have now become closer to the neoliberal concept of social democracy in Croatia after the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16453	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16454	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Vinkovic. As the profit of extra profit is only the sky of borders, it seems to the bureaucrats, officials in various companies, state-owned companies, ministries, agencies, only the sky of borders. It's said in these changes the director has one or more assistants, actually as much as it is 10, 20, which is why if we can draw a line anywhere, if we can limit everything that's on the hands of the workers, which is why we leave the possibility that he actually has as many assistants as anyone wants. Yes, I agree completely with you, it certainly needs to be settled either by party likers or perhaps the minister will explain to us what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16455	Replica response, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16456	Dear colleague, I haven't mentioned a few examples from this brighter future after the election, but I can say it's for example. One of the ministers had to resign for e-mail. After that, there was a string of correspondence with eventually no one dropped hair off their heads unless they went to a hairdresser or a barber. On the other hand, we have law, and this is one in a series of such laws that enables just political entanglement. So good pay, good car, ficus, secretary, phone, credit card, all that makes this revolutionary law possible. And I'm only asking, therefore, not to spend taxpayers' money, citizens of the Republic of Croatia by publishing in "The People's Newspaper" because it costs at least 1850 kuna, but simply to say people will be that, that, that and that. So the so-called assistants in various non-competition ministries, appointed deputy, will now be appointed assistants. It's just a question of if the director has a deputy, one or more, what the deputies do, and what the assistants do. It's a very painful job to record the number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16457	The replica was also reported by distinguished representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16458	Respecting Mr. Vinkovic's representative, who found that there were a large number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. This is certainly the biggest problem of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and this House, regardless of party membership, that the number of unemployed should certainly be reduced. Since Mr. MP referred to the question of the Minister in which they are employed, I would take advantage of this opportunity and the replica for Mr. Representative to answer how selections and selections are done in Osijek-Baranja County, to respond to the public because with such things, the unemployed should not be played and those things should not be sought out that are not good. It's a problem for all of us, whether it's a position or an opposition. And given that a colleague is calling for democracy, I would ask him to try to explain here in public how certain people are chosen, by which key, and how the policies at the county level are implemented and where the political option represented by fellow Vinkovic is the choice of personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16459	Here you will be pleased with the honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16460	I'm going to answer to my esteemed representative and my deputy in town, but here's the first thing this law will do is allow this number 316 385 to be reduced by at least 10 how many directors will have an assistant. These people already know each other, I'm just asking the minister. As far as Osijek-Baranja County is concerned, I'm not the mayor, but in any case it's much more transparent than here. After all, your client is in the coalition. I believe you should know that. I hope you're not a ficus in the coalition in Osijek-Baranja County, that you're together making the most respected advocates of the decision. But I argue that it is transparent through public competitions and even here in schools through school councils that directors make decisions, so there is no such possibility of law making to catch individuals from certain political parties. I hope you're satisfied, and if you want an additional explanation, I'd be happy to give it to you when you and I get to the city of Djakovo, and we'll discuss it in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16461	The promoter would also like to address. Here's Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16462	Mr. Vice President, so if we could stop this barren discussion, I'd ask Agent Vinkovic to tell me who the director of the Croatian Employment Service is. Who is director of the Croatian Employment Service when you know who will be employed, when you know who will be assistants. Tell me, who is the director of the Croatian Employment Service?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16463	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16464	Yeah, so when we talk about arguments then we talk about arguments, let's not talk about things we don't know about. So, the director of the Croatian Employment Service is Mrs. Ankica Jarallah Paun Vukovar, who has been the director until now, who has appeared in the competition and has been elected. She was at HDZ time, she'll be at the time of the SDP, a woman who knows her job. About that, political staffing and political barbiturates so much that you know. When we talk about assistants, the assistants are persons who are professional, who know their jobs and who, together with the resolution minister, will probably be chosen by experts from their own home, so also experts who are involved in employment. So much so that we can end this discussion, about how many assistants there will be, who will appoint them. So, there will be professional people, people who know their jobs because this is too responsible a job to make people fall in love. As you can see, we don't love people. On the other hand, the Bureau is not the place where we record the number of unemployed. If you had been more informed then you would have seen that there are three, two laws and one act called "Actual Employment Policy Measures". This law and the Employment Encouragement Act, which are necessary in order to open jobs at a time of crisis. The government has referred to the procedure and will come to the assembly benches to amend the Employment Encouraging Act where we will remove certain things we have seen that in law enforcement we need to remove them. Thus, the institution itself is no longer a place for unemployment. The Institute is where people find their jobs, and will especially be significant at the time of our entry into the European Union when we will go through this law, that is, through this institution will also go to employment in Croatia, as well as employment outside Croatia. In the measures of active employment policies, therefore, and therefore this law that is before us is only one technical amendment, but this law, together with the Employment Encouragement Act and the active employment policy measures, is crucial in opening up people's opportunities to find their jobs. Therefore, there will also be changes in the active employment policy measures where we will allow people to have a business idea to work easier and get self-employment funds. There will be talks about this very soon, because this law comes in the same way to the constituency benches. So, on the other hand, when we talk about the number of unemployed, it didn't just increase the number of unemployed during the tourist season in 2010, only then it grew by one measure that we consciously removed from our hands and said we weren't going to do it, which is that all of a sudden 15000 people were sent into education by force or not force, but in this way corrected the number of unemployed or when you sent people to education, education then they were deleted from the records that they were no longer unemployed. They're still unemployed just being educated for some other skill that, as far as we know, hasn't helped them very much. By amending the law, so the one in front of you, we said in the spring of this year that we would not do it, that we would not delete from the records those who go to education, that they were still unemployed and that they remain on the record. So much for that number now very much discussed. On the other hand, the number until 1.1 was fear and shivering this year, as the hills trembled when the number of unemployed were to be announced at the end of the year or at the end of the month, and then people were forced into education that did not help them either, and it did not help the state. An example that we have repeatedly instructed an unemployed person who wanted to educate himself and educate for another profession where he was simply told, sir, if you go to educate yourself on that occupation, the only thing that will happen to you is to go from one counselor to another. So we took it all away. At this point in Croatia, people are educated for jobs that are employed, which can be given employment opportunities and no longer be used by the Institute for hairing the number of unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16465	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16466	By listening to this opening speech by the Prime Minister, so Zoran Milanovic, I realized that at that time, perhaps naively that the government will change its relationship towards the Parliament and that in the extreme line, given that the government has come out of the parliament by calling us and its colleagues, it will be primarily true that MPs in parliamentary democracy are asking questions to the government, not to the ministers. At this point, it doesn't matter who the Director of the Employment Service is, because we're talking at this point about this director being party or not having party assistants. That's what this is about. And as for the experience, so from the Employment Office there somewhere in 1995 after the Storm, the second day of Christmas I got fired at PIC Đakovo, so I had the opportunity to see all the benefits of the Croatian Employment Service. And if it hadn't really been for that Employment Service, I wouldn't have found a job at all. They were as helpful at that time as those nearly 320,000 unemployed helped. We're talking about active employment measures here, policies, and the number of unemployed is climbing. That's the minister's score. So it's either not a good measure or a number, that the measures are worth the number of unemployed falls. I don't care what happened in '95, 2001 to third. I am interested in what will be tomorrow, and the number of unemployed in Croatia is growing more and more in my Đakov every day. Unfortunately, as mayor, I don't have the ability to hire nearly 3,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16467	Thank you very much. The following came to the replica, the esteemed representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16468	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. You've reached out, Mr. Minister, and your first sentence was that you want to interrupt the debate, I mean because it's hardly necessary, etc., you know what you're saying. I join your wish that this debate should be interrupted, but with one finding because all this unnecessary debate and all this unnecessary waste of time, we are taking money from taxpayers for such debates that serve nothing. They can come down to one sentence. So, your party, your government has kicked out of political life, out of social life, out of the general life in Croatia category of expertise, ability, knowledge, past work, everything has reduced to a political resemblance to a particular political option. And this law that you're inauguration right now is exactly what it is. So, unfortunately, either you don't understand, sir, or you pretend you don't understand, and you want to cast some kind of localism on one to say so to the Croatian public, so don't you underestimate the Croatian public so much that it's not clear to you that everyone understands what you want? So to you, you're saying, they don't need competitions either as a procedure or as a way of democratically selecting someone or something. Because the competition requires that certain professional and other criteria in the competition be met. Mr. Minister, you're saying it's enough for me to choose a man. He doesn't have to have a college or this or that or anything. Well, you can tell me as much as you want the one appointed by the government to have nothing written anywhere that he has to have or write, but the government has to name him. So you're throwing out I said, I'm finishing this replica, professional ability as a politics as a philosophy of life, as a philosophy of the thinking of a Croatian man. We should, we're going to the EU, we're full of EU mouths. This is a return to the dark past in '46. when the Communist Party of Croatia and Yugoslavia was the only legitimacy, i.e. the only legitimacy that you could become cessar on one local road and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16469	Thank you very much. Next came the replica, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am, Mr. Minister, initiating your statement as soon as you spoke to the Croatian Parliament again when you said we should stop this wild debate. On the other hand, I find it strange that the minister is giving his colleague Vinkovic a clue as to whether his debate is empty or not, I don't think it should be the minister's job because the MP can discuss what he thinks the law he's proposed can pass. But I do not understand what kind of discussion you were expecting about a law that has only one single article, which states by law that the director of the Employment Intermediation Office has one or more assistants. In fact, at a time when there are 500 more unemployed every day in Croatia, we have been discussing an important change in the structure of the Croatian Employment Mediating Office in which we introduce an institute of one or more assistants in another reading. So this is the second law reading, and we already had one law in which we made it possible for that same principal to have a deputy. Therefore, the work that you could do once by amending the law immediately at the outset that the government regulates the issue of the establishment of the institute, and we as parliamentary representatives all morning are discussing whether the office will have one or more assistants. I think we might be able to ask if this isn't your hard work when you as Minister all morning here in the assembly assure us that it would be good for the director of the Croatian Employment Mediating Office to have one or more assistants.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16471	Thank you very much. And it's the last replica of the distinguished representative of the Djura Popper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's scandalous for the minister to find that someone forced and forced someone into school, education or a change of qualifications. So, under the conditions really when it's before me and when I was a minister, among other things, and your portfolio, and when you, or HZZ, are trying to implement and help people, you say that we are the ones in our mandate that we forced them to reduce the number of unemployed. So, it reflects that you've never dealt with the labour market except now that you've become a minister for nine months you've been able to learn that they've been temporarily deleted from the unemployment records, that's correct. But all those who failed to get a job after school, after a change or after the adoption of some new skills and skills were returning. But you have between August 30th and October 10th here are 16 thousand people more unemployed despite the fact that all the others who went to school or change of profession or whatever in summer are at the office. It's dramatic that every day 500 people lose their jobs in the real sector. It doesn't matter if this number or that number stayed on record during the summer and went to school or not. It's also scandalous to say that we've haired the number of unemployed. Do you indeed undo all that the Institute of Statistics does every month? He's sending you the number of unemployed. Do you think that's how much we've affected that data? So you do more real causes, you deal with how you're going to improve the state of the labour market than you do every week on three radio shows, on TV you're saying that we've cut some numbers. It's your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16473	Thank you very much. The replicas will be answered by the esteemed Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16474	So if you send 15 thousand people to education three months before the 2011 elections, everyone comes back to you and ask these people how they went to education for a variety of professions for which they had neither a tendency nor a will but they were told that you might have a better chance of getting a job. So these are facts and these facts should not be escaped. That is why we wanted this part of the active employment policy to be really directed towards those who need these active employment policy measures that will be able to be educated for professions that are employed in Croatia and which can be employed and we said we will not delete them from the records. And so this year a significant number of people went into this section that is related to training for new skills. And when we talk about political employment, what they can certainly responsiblely claim is that at the Employment Service, starting with the principal and other management structures are working and will be done by people who are professional for the part that knows the labour market and who know about the labour market what it takes for Croatia to sort of amortise this blow of the number of unemployed. Therefore, we do not want to hair the figures as they have been frisked for years, we want it to be a reality and we publish this reality every day at the Employment Office. Therefore, it is absolutely certain that active policy measures, employment policies are not measures that will allow people to become employed. They will enable them to have the ability to work when jobs are opened, and on the other hand, and the measures we take will lead some of them to so much desired employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16475	Thank you very much. Here with individual debates we will continue after a break that will be up to 15.00 hours. However, before we split up, I would just like to introduce you to the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, informs the board members that tomorrow at 8.30 p.m., a meeting of the Committee on Legislatives will be held in the Chamber of John Mažuranić. I'll see you at 3:00 then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16476	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we continue our afternoon work with individual debates. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16477	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Employment and Rights Intervention Act is a small law. The minor changes that have been made here are major criticisms, but I believe not only with these changes but with the application of the entire law, as well as with the announced amendments to the Employment Encouragement Act, as well as the Act on Active Employment Measures, that together with other government measures, we will fulfill our promise, that is, what citizens of each government and particularly the Social Democrats expect to make employment possible. I will immediately say that I want exactly and that it will certainly be that in this law the other part of his title, which determines his content, which is that we do less during the time of unemployment rights, not because we do not want to do so, but because it is precisely because these unemployed are as much as possible, and that this law as the entire government's measures are focusing precisely on their basic mission to participate in their active measures on employment. What the Minister was introducing and saying exactly in the opening letter, which is that great tasks are expected not only in this final EU accession period, but after full membership, we are especially expected to receive funds from the European Social Fund as a single EU financial instrument for achieving the strategic objectives of employment policy and that our own fund must also carry out such preparedness and such preparation. Not only normative, but above all content, but also one who is ready, who wants to do so. We know that the European Social Fund primarily encourages investment in human resources, improving labour skills, adapting to economic change, more productive work organisation, targeted knowledge and skills of employment and training. Then improving access to the labour market through modernisation and strengthening of institutions through active employment measures, social inclusion relating to sensitive groups, which has been particularly highlighted. And I would say here first of all, rediscovering the equality of men and women because we know the moment women in Croatia started losing their jobs it was the first major sign of the crisis and it is always so and unfortunately in all systems. Support the work of the employment service, therefore, and this will also be made possible through large funds, as funding is available to Croatia after EU accession. Of course, this depends on Croatia, but also on the network not only of the rest of the ministry, but also on the networking above all here and with our Ministry of European Funds to be ready for these funds and to withdraw. What many critics point out today, and I believe here, Mr. Minister, that this should not be endured but should be listened to. And that many among them, I shall say there is, for the faithless Thomas has always been and will be. And that's what people do because they've been defrauded for years, and they've all promised, and no one's done it. What you're facing in government, and especially you in the ministry led by you, Mr. Minister, is that you're moving in the truth, which means there's something you really want to do. And almost daily publication of the number of unemployed people is the face-to-face of Croatia with the truth. Who's attacking you? Those who give today's brilliant ideas of destruction and apathy, those who have had the chance to do something, and during that time Croatia was only in trouble and proved itself only to its destructive genius. Those who are now mocking Croatia that it is a credential, and they have knocked out their own teeth. I believe, Mr. Minister, that such criticism will not deconcentrate you on this path that is not important and too important but that is fateful for Croatia. What I would also like to say and mention, which you yourself are aware of, which is what is united, and I would say the interdisciplinary action of our ministries that we see first of all that the Minister of Finance is already doing through tax reform, but also a whole series of other measures, to increase productivity in Croatia. There was a lot of deindustrialisation of Croatia, and this proved that all the countries that succeeded, or tried to get out of the crisis, had returned to industrialisation. Therefore, Croatia needs industrial policy, Croatia needs production, industry, and not the financial industry that has almost compensated for the lack of all industry in Croatia. And I'll just say one more thing, here's our friends, because it's very important, I think that employment in a country without globalisation like the globalisation of the financial market, and this is not just a question of Croatia, or our strength depends on how much our friends in Europe will succeed. First of all, where we have sister parties and who are able to rule and to offer their countries something new to their citizens. Here, for example, in France, I will not talk about a whole series of measures, but one that will surely happen in Croatia and that has to happen, but I will repeat it as the French did. They introduced tax reliefs on the cultural bonus, and those who employ at least 2 graduates will be completely tax-free. Banks investing in the development of the domestic economy will be given tax relief. And banks dealing with only cash transactions will increase them very, very simply. Of course that resistance will be enough. Of course, yes, and since you started telling the truth from the very beginning the biggest and most unpleasant truth that you didn't participate in, but what is the basic base. So, as a doctor, it's also as a humanist that you've diagnosed and only then, in this way we'll be able to treat a sick society where healthy people don't work. So we will be able to talk about a healthy society in which they work healthyly and in which they are sick, in which the state takes care of the sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16478	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We've got two replicas on your display. The first is the replica of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16479	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I didn't mean to replicate it, but Mrs. Anticevic kind of called us by looking at this side, saying that we're mocking this country that it's a credential. So it reminded me of one moment, i.e. which makes the power of the people, i.e. when they're in opposition and they're in power. I'll be back in 2010, 3 months 2010. Number of unemployed 317625. The SDP club then tells the former prime minister to take that number as phone number, 317625, the number of unemployed. Ten days later, a prominent estrace star appears at a fashion show wearing a brooch with the same number 317625. We heard today, that there it was, it was 3 months in 2010, today we heard that this number is already in 1 or 2 days again on that number. Well, I'm taking the opportunity, since we're all mocking each other, and I'm saying we're not mocking each other, because we're saying what's the fact, which is true, that it would be good for that lady who then stood up for the defense of the godless people and the unemployed to put that brooch back on. So let's figure out where we are and how we run our policies towards our employees. I think I've said enough in that part, who's mocking and who's not mocking. Because if someone was uncomfortable exactly about unemployment, when unemployment grew by 300,400 people a day at that time, and today we hear it's 500 people. Today it's a successful policy, today it's a successful policy for the unemployed, and then it was a disaster. It is a relationship as a man becomes a way and in opposition or in the authorities of behavior are different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16480	Thank you, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica by the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16481	I will answer you to a replica that is only in a formal sense of replica, because you have not replicated anything, nor have you replicated to me, but you are replicating and speaking to a singer who, as a man, is so brave that you dare not even mention the name, and the courageous person Severina Vuckovic. So much for your courage. But to speak, so 8 years of systematic destruction of Croatian society and mentioning it here, you say that in 8 months you could have done what, then you're actually underestimating yourself and everything you've done, and you've done negatively. So if you had only worked for 4 years, not 8 years consecutively then surely that progress, or that such negative consequences might be faster to resolve. But here, replicating, or responding to you in a replica, I will once again address Mr. Minister, to listen to all this, it is painful to face the truth, almost leading us to those Bible times. And it won't be easy obstructions will be at every turn, because you dare tell the truth, because every day you say what the consequences are. But we will also appreciate our willingness to do so or not. So they went crying, carrying seed in the seed, coming back with a song carrying their classes. I'm saying, I believe it will be done because the very truth that you're starting with is that it's actually going to be that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16482	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16483	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My replica, I'll be able to name Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic. Well, it's not easy for her to replicate, I have to admit, but here's how I got the courage to name it. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, your government doesn't understand anything that is my replica to you. Your government, this government and our government, but the government of this promotion is political, does not understand, this will be the political process in Croatia and the essence of the political crisis in Croatia and the world. And that's why they won't solve anything. In the end, Croatia will in some way, I will not say heads, but prosperity and recovery, because it will not solve anything. As the communists promised, there will be a better life in some better times when it is. So now your government promises, it'll be 3 months better, then in 6 months, so you're already 13 years old and you've already started talking about 15 years. So you didn't do anything. One year has passed by your authority, the unemployment of Mrs Anticevic-Marinović is growing rapidly, this one is growing unemployment. You have nothing in your heads, in your plans, but only to create new unemployment and introduce new taxes. You don't understand you've destroyed agriculture by your interventions, you don't realize that, let's say, within this 2 minute, that agriculture is the only process that in a year can be given two harvests, or that can be managed in such a way that in the same year, if you want to employ at 5 billion, let's say 100, 200 thousand people. It is the only thing Croatia can do with tourism, but in agriculture. That's you, that's what you end up with. So you raise your taxes and do everything you can to make unemployment grow. It's no accident that unemployment is growing. And this government has no plan, no idea, no instruments, no instruments, nothing works for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16484	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16485	You're asking for my statement in a year, there will be 400,000 unemployed, and after 4 years of your term of office in 2003, there were the same unemployed as the days when GDP grew up, when there was no global crisis, when everything went hand in hand to carry out that employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16486	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16487	So I'm going to try to answer the way you've sent the replica, it's full disqualification, but you're not polarizing with arguments but with labels. So you say you have nothing, the government has nothing in its heads, that you had as much in your heads as in your pockets surely Croatia would not have found itself at a time like this. You also went back to Communism and you said what he did. Well, here's the school of a Dujo Marasovic. I believe this government will educate many young people who will find their place here and their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16488	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to discuss this. The next representative is the respected Adriatica Kosor. She's not in the hall. She's losing her right to discuss this. Next is the esteemed representative of the Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16489	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, Col. Djuro Popiac said that the HDZ Club will not support the amendments and additions of this law but not because this law has practically one article which, in my view, is not a problem in which the possibility of three assistants is opened, let us assume one for economic affairs, the other for legal affairs and the third for employment interventions because it is already once if I do not remember well how many years ago it has been and in reason it says that, and the minister also said that it will increase the efficiency of the management of the office and I think that this is not a problem and should not be a problem for two or three people if it will really help the institution to work better. What I think and what we think should have been done and we believe that this law on employment mediation as well as that of a colleague who mentioned earlier about incentives and employment and measures of active employment policy is probably the most important law at this point and, if not most importantly, certainly among the most important measures that the Government should adopt. I think that it should have been united and that today, when we change this law in which we will have along with the director and three assistants that there may have been some other important and essential issues and through this but also through these two laws and one measure that perhaps it is possible then to fully consider it and then it would probably be more constructive and constructive debates for sure and from the clubs I suppose. I will only warn one more thing, and it is that recently and changed the statutes of the Croatian Employment Service. This Statute brings the administrative council and Article 15 of the Statute changes the name of the central establishment unit and of the central office in the central office and the name of the regional establishment units from the regional department services to the regional offices, and Article 44 of it is determined that the principle of the regional office instead of the current head of office will be the chair, and until the election of the new head of staff to be vd and then the competition will be opened for the new presidents, or in fact, those are the principals, and we will have either the old presidents who will become presidents or we will have new presidents, and practically all of this just because the name changes are more said are not the headmaster but will be the chairman. All right. But I will take advantage of the opportunity when we talk about this law to say a few words and suggestions about this and these laws that I have said are very important and important to me at the moment when we have a large number of unemployed and I hear it as a representative and as an observation I think they stand. One of the remarks is, for example, when it comes to professional training without a working relationship or so on. I don't think it would be a bad idea for these hirings to raise that monthly fee, and I don't know how much, and I know it's a financial problem, but it wouldn't be bad, I think it's too small now. But perhaps more importantly than canceling the conditions of length of waiting on records. Let's just say someone became and could pass this traineeship internship must have 90 days of records in HZZ and must not have more than a year of experience. Now we have a problem with, say, some students while they're studying doing various jobs in summer or as waiters or other jobs, and so purchases maybe more than years of work and then they don't have the right to do this internship, so I think that this traineeship should allow all the people who haven't done the internship in the profession regardless of the conditions, so these 90 days on the record and these years that they must now have as a condition that they can intern. Secondly, I think that these financial support measures should also mitigate a few criteria because it is now seen that they must have had one condition that workers have not been fired in the last 12 months, that they have done positive business, come on, it is okay and it is especially appropriate not to owe the IRS, but here it might not be bad for unemployed people to not account for seasonal work and work less than three months because they also have no right. Or maybe another thing that wouldn't be bad, which is when it comes to measures to encourage employment to be seen a little regionally because not all of Croatia's economics will not say the same, but in all parts of Croatia the same economy is the first. The second is not in all parts of Croatia the need for, say, seasonal labour, somewhere in the summer is winter, etc. I think that they should be more involved in the county and that, in this respect, these employment problems should be seen both regionally and regionally. He also notes that there is poor cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate and the Croatian Employment Service, so perhaps that should be done. In any case, I think, but the good minister has announced that the Employment Encouragement Act will go to the government very soon, then clearly and to the Parliament, so there will be opportunities to talk about these concrete measures. But all in all, we are holding here at the club that, with what my colleague Popiac said, it is perhaps necessary now, if possible today, when we are also discussing these amendments that it says in the explanation, to contribute more effectively to the management of the institute, that perhaps we should discuss, not perhaps, but that the Employment Encouraging Act should also be discussed, as well as active employment measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16490	Thank you, Your Honor. We have on your presentation the registered replica of the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16491	The esteemed representative also mentioned some other laws that this number will no matter who wore it as a telephone, but we can all agree that today this number of unemployed is extremely large, and since he mentioned a number of other laws that are not so directly related to this one, because this one in my opinion will not contribute to reducing the unemployed but will reduce that number by 3, 4, 5. Or, for example, The country that wants to start the economy then certainly does not enter the process of raising VAT because they did not even make it economically stronger countries when they wanted to start an additional economy. The best example is Germany that reduced VAT. It's simply a law of combined containers, lower product prices, higher consumption, thus higher production. There's also that investment environment law and investment aid. I also don't think it's revolutionary, we've backed that bill, and it's all about 15 million kunas from two ministries. So about a symbolic measure that intends to boost investments in the Republic of Croatia in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And now I repeat my question to the Minister because reading this amendment to the law states that assistant directors will appoint the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the Minister responsible for Labour. Now I don't know if he's going to wait for the announcement as a minister in the National Journal and then propose to the Ministers of Government, and I believe he already knows the number of assistants and knows what they're called and knows where they come from, from which political parties and that's it. And this law simply can't reduce the number of unemployed, except for that number that the minister says he doesn't know how many assistants he's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16492	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next individual debate. I call on the respected representative, Željko Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16493	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the final proposal for a law supplementing the Employment Intervention Act and Rights during unemployment under Article 67a, Article 67b is added, and we heard it today in an all-day debate. So the director of the office has one or more assistant directors. The Assistant Director shall be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Labour. The number of assistant directors, part-time work, powers and responsibilities of assistant directors shall be determined by the Statute. Therefore, the Employment Mediation and Rights Act regulates employment mediation, professional guidance, education to increase employment, unemployment insurance, active labour market activity in order to promote the spatial and professional mobility of the workforce, new employment and self-employment, sources of funding for the activities of the HZZ and the establishment, management and implementation of the activities of the Institute. HZZ is the leading institution in the Croatian labour market, and Croatia's upcoming entry into the European Union is certainly an incentive for labour market reform in line with Union guidelines. Accordingly, adequate coordination will be needed to open the labour market in order to ultimately integrate with the European market. The function of one or more assistant directors of the Employment Office should contribute to this. The better coordination will also be necessary for the reason that, before Europe itself, there is a period of challenge regarding employment, and recently warned by Switzerland's Adecco, the world's largest agency for temporary employment. The upcoming period of challenge is due to the fact that France's largest labour markets, but also other euro area members, face a paralysing debt crisis. Following this, the European labour markets are weak. With regard to employment and social issues in the European Union, there are two cornerstones of employment and social policy. These are the European Employment Strategy on creating new jobs and a strategy for reforming the labour market and a social agenda aimed at ensuring that everyone in society has the benefits of the growth of the European Union. Common objectives, as well as individual employment policy priorities of the Member States, are defined by the multiannual employment guidelines agreed on by all Member States. Employment guidelines are also the basis of national reform programmes, aimed at moving knowledge and innovation and creating new jobs. Through the employment guidelines, Member States commit themselves to common priorities for attracting more people with employment, retaining more people in employment, increasing labour supply, modernising the social protection system, improving the adaptability of workers and businesses, and increasing investment in ensuring better education and skills. Guidelines seek to combine and flexibility of the labour market with the security of employment and recognition of the role of social partners. They are committed to labour prices and mechanisms for determining the employment-adjusted wages and to expanding and improving investment in human capital and adapting education and training systems to the requirements for new skills. Following Croatia's entry into the European Union, the Employment Service will play an important role in employment policy measures, in particular in cooperation with the European Social Fund, which, as one of the European Union's structural funds, encourages, among other things, employment and raises the readiness of labour and economic operators to face challenges on the global market. There is no doubt that more efficient management of the office will be required, and the functions of the assistant director of the office should certainly contribute to this. As regards the European Social Fund, it is the main financial instrument of the European Union to achieve the strategic objectives of employment policy. Accordingly, the Fund provides support for European regions affected by high unemployment rates. Interventions financed by the Fund include a more productive organisation of work and support in the work of employment services and their networking with research centres. Since the institution will work closely with the European Social Fund after Croatia's entry into the European Union, this is even more reason for raising its efficiency to a higher level so that Croatia can make better use of the new opportunities opened to it in terms of employment policy activities, and social issues. It would also strengthen administrative capacity in the public sector, the economy, as well as in the field of employment and social policy through more efficient activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16494	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is the replica of the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16495	Thank you very much, President. Well, I was offered a sentence spoken by Mr Mirkovic that entering Croatia into the European Union would be an incentive for employment. The young have already responded in some way to that finding. These days, a group of young "Let's Leave Croatia" has been established on Facebook, which has up to today more than 40,000 likes, which is clearly perhaps the best way to paint labour policy in the Republic of Croatia. I say everything about ten months after the new Government in the Republic of Croatia. Young people have begun to leave Croatia and I think that these incentives that come through such legal forms simply can't help them as they haven't helped all the great measures that are so media and bombistically announced from internships, from volunteering, from fees of 1700 kuna, from public works, etc. The facts of the minister speak differently. We have more and more employees every day, and if we get into statistics, the fact is that this 2012 is the worst year on unemployment since 2003. This year, 343 000 unemployed. This power is gone, the previous government left with 315 000 unemployed at the end of 12 months 2011. It was a legacy. Today that number is exceeded and we're only ten months away. We can freely write that at the end of 12 months 2012. To have over 340,000 unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16496	Thank you, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Željko Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16497	Well, I wouldn't want to repeat myself like there's already been a speech before and go back or forth. But we're all aware that it's part of the legacy. However, this government is at least trying to take measures to resolve things, and I am convinced that this time that has taken particular steps to the Ministry of Labour and this law is one wheel in all these measures that the government is taking to address this burning issue of unemployment. I believe we inherited this from the HDZ authorities eight years ago. However, it is necessary to be honest and honest and to say that this is all the consequences of before the conversion and privatisation, so that I say we should not now bring everything down to these 8, 9 months behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16498	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16499	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Mirkovic. You kind of came across me, and in fact I stayed in debt to Mrs. Antiquic, so now you're kind of gonna pay. I couldn't say everything in those two minutes. Let's wait, it's always running through here. We are waiting for salvation by entering the European Union. Some money will come from there and it will hire the Croats. What are you gentlemen talking about? Encourage your government to change politics, to in some way make Croatia a successful recovery, to get out of the economic crisis that we all look forward to, which everyone would like. If we wait for money from the European Union, there will be 4 million unemployed in Croatia and we will be out of work here. Because if they arrive, they'll arrive in those five, ten years, they'll have some kind of effect. Not through this year, two days or three. And I guess that makes sense to you. Leave Europe and the European Union funds. We have to do something today. Yesterday we had to make these policies and consider and we will support, I will support what is constructive and that would create a new job. But how will you open it when you program everything that one country has said doesn't do when it's in crisis. You have to make it happen, raise your job to cut taxes, do everything you can to get the money out of your pockets, out of your banks, and go into circulation, into production. And you've done everything you can to stop production, to stop investment, to stop investment and keep people in banks or pockets. I've got 100,000 euros, so I'm not buying an apartment because I'm gonna have to pay my taxes and they're standing at my bank. And if the state stimulates me to do that, to buy an apartment is paid VAT on concrete, etc., you know. You're running a completely wrong policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16500	Replication response respected representative Željko Mirkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16501	Well, we've set ourselves up for the European Union, so we have to act like one. It certainly won't be easy at first, but we have already had the opportunity of structural funds to take advantage of them and partially improve this situation. I hope that this situation will soon be improved by entering the European Union no matter what the labour market increases and that some of the current 4 million are coming to the labour market of 500 million. So I say it's probably not going to be easy at first, but it's opening up opportunities for young and educated people to find their place under the sun to prevent further departure from the Beautiful One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16502	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of registered representatives for a ten-minute debate. I call on Minister of Labour and the pension system of respected Miranda Mrsic to give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16503	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. To write down numbers are numbers. It is true, at 12 months there were 315000 people at the Employment Service, but at the same time 15000 people were wiped out because they were in some education process. Therefore, it is the exact number of unemployed. Because those in the process of education are still unemployed. On the other hand, when we talk about the figures in February, there were about 350,000 unemployed. You can't say that this is the consequence of this government's policy, but it's obviously a policy that hasn't been able to do anything in this area for 8 years, and that's a fact, it doesn't need to be avoided. We are not running away from the number of unemployed, we know that it will grow, it will grow during this year, it will probably be the largest in the spring, and then with time seasonal employment, this figure will decrease, and that is the bimodal shape of the curve that has been in Croatia for years. So there are no secrets. It was only a secret which number was correct. So, the truth sometimes hurts, but the truth is that. And we're not running away from that number. We know about this figure and we try that number in the way the whole world does, and we also make it easier for those people who are at the Employment Office right now. First, those who have no experience acquire this experience, secondly those who have a business idea to open up the company to enable them to do it for a little bit of kuna, and to have the incentive, that those who unfortunately have been excluded from the labour market for years and have simply forgotten what it looks like to work and be in a collective to return them back to that process through public works. So when we talk about numbers, we're going to have opportunities, I'm glad Agent Calmett had one very constructive discussion and he's going to have a chance around the law. The law is in the parliamentary procedure right now, I think Thursday is on the Committee on Legislatives, amendments to the Employment Encouragement Act and what you said will all be in this new law. Therefore, the employment measure without a working relationship will be able to benefit those who have worked, waitered, did all other jobs other than their profession, the only condition will be that they do not have a job experience in their profession. Also, he's always been 90 days at the Employment Service so you can use the measure. The new ones will be 30 days, so as soon as you sign up for the Employment Service. Also, together with the Ministry of Tourism, we are talking and looking for the opportunity to regulate the permanent season in tourism. We are a tourist country and should have a permanent seasonal institute, and on the other hand we will also enable tourism companies dealing with tourism as they have a seasonal part that does not affect the use of these measures. So all those barriers we're going to have, here we're going to move them and just let people get a job. When we talk about the Employment Service, it's true, the new Statute has been passed. It's not just a change in names, it's a change in the circle. So, the regional services that are in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Varazdin and Zagreb will be regional services that will take care of the region and we also have the same thinking, so we also want the employment policy to be regional policy, is not the same as Slavonia and Dalmatia. Therefore, the regional part also feels that the employment policy is reduced to the level of the region, to the city level, and that both the local community and the county and cities have an impact on the very employment policy. It also changes the structure of the office. So it's not just that we're going to have an assistant. So somewhere around three helpers to discover curiosity. So far, the assistants were just not called assistants, but were chiefs of certain parts of the central ministry. The central service is also changed in a way that the part which is the basic activity of the institution is maximumly developed, and the other part which is the service part is therefore the part that supports this basic part to be reduced to the minimum. And the helpers will be, here to please and that curiosity, there will be neither this party nor that party there will be people who have done these jobs at the office level before and will simply be chosen from these people within the staff of the people who will be assistants. So, no politicizing, no out-of-the-box employment is simply re-designing an office with the re-design of the office fitting the moment we're in right now. The district offices, or regional services, will also be reconstructed in such a way that the main part of these services will be the one facing those who need to be, and that is the part that is related to counseling, so that it goes to the user. We in certain services have one counselor a thousand and some unemployed. By redistributing people inside, so no new employment we've reduced the average of 1 to 600 somewhere. Our goal is to further reorganize and free from jobs that are not necessary for advisors to come up to one to 300. We'll also form a so-called. Call center, so where people are going to get information because we now know that at the Employment Office almost half the job hours a counselor is going to waste on phone calls and answers to certain questions. We therefore want counselors to do only what they need to do, which is to consult the unemployed. In addition, special centres are set up within the office that will be silent partners to all those who are going to go into self-employment. So there will be a monitoring of these new companies that will be established and help all these people to manage in the forest regulations and finances. So, the Institute is moving in each other's direction and what is quite certain is that after these changes, the Institute will no longer be a place where you will come pounding stamps that you are unemployed but will be a place where you will come and pass that process that will allow you to find a job. On the other hand, the Institute is making the most of it towards employers and employers will have their own partner at the Employment Office who will then allow them to get quality people for the jobs that will be opened. At a time of crisis when jobs are not being opened then the state must jump in with its measures, and these are measures. And to end by mentioning the figures, 7.5 thousand people at this time are in the line of work without a working relationship, over 35,000 people in Croatia were in public works. What we see now is a great enthusiasm for people according to the rate of self-employment, and every day we have more and more demands. And we also have the part that is related to education, and we are quite restrictive here, but we have managed that those people who go into that education system have a chance to get a job in over 80% of cases and we do not want to waste money on retraining for those interests that we cannot hire in Croatia. So hopefully, in contrast, here is the announcement that HDZ will not support these amendments to the law, let us hope that it will support the amendments to the Employment Encouragement Act, which clearly led to the shift in both the labour market itself and the area of the unemployed. And just for one end one good thing we started, which is we started the vouchers in agriculture. At this point, over 70,000 people have bought that seasonal worker book in agriculture. So over 70,000 people work on agriculture, we don't count on them to be employed, so we don't count on them in this part, we still run them, some of them are unemployed and we still run them as unemployed. And what's also important, it's sold nearly 180 thousand vouchers, which means that that part of the black market or the gray market we've shown is visible and we're starting to sort out the situation in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16504	Thank you, too, dear Minister Miranda Mrsic. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16505	Thank you very much. Well, I must admit that the minister, here's the second time today surprised me when he claims the numbers aren't good, i.e. that we as parliamentary representatives, the Croatian public watching the official pages of the Croatian Employment Service actually have the wrong figures. And that's the legacy of the former government, although some 15,000 people were hiding or not hiding, etc. We have a story about a public debate, and then we're discussing the law and, by the way, the minister of commendation as the best or best director of this particular employment agency. What's he telling us? That this best director is serving us the wrong information, that we don't actually have the exact number, but that these are the kind of legacy that just then drags one after the other some other new numbers. And the exact figures, they say that in the 3 months of 2010, we had 317 thousand unemployed, 2011. 330, 2012. 339 thousand, that in August 2011, we had 285, and in this year 301 thousand. That we had 287 in July 2011 and that we have 298. And these are the figures, and if we won't trust them to believe the first, and we're adding that first through this law and a dozen new assistants, they're all counting together as many employees or unemployed as we have. I don't think it's a good idea for a minister, an official representative of the government here to speak that way. That we're talking about numbers that aren't actually true. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16506	Now, this is what I like, the reply to the line, the esteemed Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16507	I'll just be brief, so the director of the Croatian Employment Service is doing her job and her job was to do what she did and we're doing it to her. But it was the policy that ordered it, and it had an obvious and legal foothold because it was legal for all those who went to education to be automatically deleted from the Croatian Employment Institute's very records, that is. It's the policy that decided to make it so, not the principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16508	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Second replica, Honored Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16509	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad, Mr. Minister, that you've noticed a constructive debate between colleagues Calmeta who expressed a wish, such as the wish of all of us here in this high house, there's not a single one here who wouldn't want that number of unemployed to be reduced. But of course, each of us has its own ways of solving. And in that sense, you've been thinking and talking about seasonal work, seasonal work. I was already afraid, but in the end you mentioned one important area because you should also respect these regional opportunities, regional opportunities. So we're not all in the same position. You were talking about tourism, then you were saying that in the end you mentioned this agriculture that you weren't talking about so much in this high house. But you also mentioned how many vouchers there were, how many employees there were. However, I would like to warn you, I would like to say that in agriculture despite these vouchers, despite these possibilities, something quite the opposite is happening, which therefore additionally increases this number of unemployed. 3,000 farms have already been closed this year, about 30,000 cows have already been solved as well. So if we're counting the next 3,000 farms, how many unemployed are growing in that section? And all these circumstances. So neither the vouchers, nor all the circumstances and efforts that are being invested can help because the situation in agriculture is catastrophic and complex. And that was one green branch on which it could have been placed in the quality of that milk situation, it could certainly have avoided this disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16510	Thank you, too. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16511	The Honorable Minister explained what the Bureau is, how we see it, how most people see it, what the Bureau should be. I fully agree with him when he said that the Institute must not be an institution that will strike stamps and record the number of unemployed. And that vision that you've presented quite certainly that no one, there is no one here in the House who would disagree with you. I agree on one more thing with you and I just want to underline it, these are these controversial requalifications that you spoke of, which took place in 2010, 2011. Well, from this point on, I'm calling DORH to pay attention as well. In fact, the employment office has concluded with various suspicious agencies requalification contracts. People who overqualified themselves, I'll tell you just one case, food technology engineer, after six years of college, was supposed to put down a deposit, a debt to 50 thousand kuna, to requalify herself as a tourist animator with a dance in the water, according to that. Her education cost when we calculated, I don't have the exact calculations, because I didn't know we were going to talk about it, but I can give you the data, the documents. The big money turned around here and I think it was about money laundering, I think it was about crime. So from this point on, I call on the competent institutions to control and certainly that these 15 thousand people have not received adequate jobs, they have not received adequate training and it is certainly not taken off the list for a reason, and it is entirely in agreement with the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16512	Thank you very much. This is the final debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Next, the final proposal of the Law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, second reading, PZ No 105. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 114 for, 6 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the Employment Intervention Act... Any objections? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And six against, I apologize. The Act on the Completion of the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment was adopted in the text proposed by the applicants. Thank you very much for your help.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16515	As the pension system is known is a system that is overstretched, a system that requires a lot of financial resources and a system in which there are some things that are obviously not logical. One of those things that we've given attention to is the question of the benefits of a job. Therefore, the benefits of a work experience should be a safeguard for those jobs where, despite the measures taken to protect the work, it is not possible to ensure such protection that the worker spends his entire working life in that workplace. We are also looking at the legislation of Europe and European countries there is no benefits. That's what we inherited from the former state. Clearly, the benefits of the work should remain, should remain for those activities for which it is really not possible for the worker to remain in the workplace for the rest of his life. It is logical that a professional soldier who is a professional, some of them are now in Afghanistan if after the 40th year of life there is no possibility of progress in the hierarchy that it is logical that he cannot remain in the armed forces and that he should be taken care of in some way. It's also logical that we can't expect a cop who's on the road every day with 60 years of life to run after a thief who's at least 40 years younger than him. So these are some of the things that the Institute of Beneficiary Jobs is worried about. We also found that some occupations do not exist. There is no longer a container of steam locomotives, there are no other occupations where simple technology went far ahead. We also established by analysis that for individual jobs where a well-defined working experience has been established, technology has progressed so much that it is unlikely that an increased internship does not need to be in such a proportion. And so we started step by step, so there will be a new bill, and I think somewhere in the first half of next year, we're going to propose a new draft of a law on the benefits of a work internship or a lengthy period, but there are some things we can do before. And in front of you are some of the things we've done before. So, when we talk about the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials then we saw that certain jobs in these services obviously do not deserve to have an unfettered job experience and is not expected to expect someone who sits in an office all his working life to have an unfettered job as a cop who is on the street or a soldier who is under full military equipment in Afghanistan. We therefore amended Article 2 by the government regulation in the 8th month. The Retirement Insurance Law, which referred to the fact that for persons employed by military personnel, a working internship for every 12 months is actually carried out in the performance of the work of an active military officer as 15, 16 and 18 months respectively. Under difficult working conditions and the nature of the performance of the work, they are understood in particular to maintain combat preparedness at a high level, to carry out combat training and to all forms of warfare, to develop abilities, skills in the use of... firearms, etc., etc. It was in the law. We felt that there was no need to be in law because every day it is increasingly changing and we suggest that this part of the law be excluded and that this part is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means that the benefits of the service for the persons involved will remain, only an analysis will be made and that analysis has already been made at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and certain changes have been made that indeed those who need to have a well-fused working internship remain. For example. for every 12 months, an 18-month internship shall be considered for persons active in the duties of airmen, paratroopers, divers, pyrotechnics, submarine divers in the baro chamber and in peace operations. So, as far as the peace ministry itself is concerned, the increased duration remains, but that benefits only those who actually work on these jobs. Unfortunately, there were examples that the benefits of a work experience were shared by hand and hat and by those jobs for which there is no foothold in the law itself. In addition, as regards that Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is based on Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section in August of this year adopted a regulation amending that law also proposes the termination of that Regulation. The law is something that enables governments and ministries to actually get a working internship with an increased duration, and that those who do not have such working conditions, which threaten their health or make it impossible for them to spend the whole working life in that workplace not to have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16516	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is a SDP club and a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16517	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers. So before us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance, Working Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, as well as a report on the regulation adopted by the Government on the basis of legal authority. Thus far, the applicable law on pension rights of active military personnel, police officers and authorised officials has been laid down to ensure that an active military person, because of the difficult working conditions and nature of the conduct of a service, is subjected to an increased period of time, that every 12 months are actually carried out in the performance of the work of an active military person as 15 or 18, or 18 months of insurance, by establishing, of course, exactly what is considered to be difficult working conditions and the nature of the conduct of the business. The law also stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down the duties in which the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration and method of calculating that internship. On 13 March 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the regulation when it laid down the duties of the military personnel in which the insurance internship is calculated with an increase in duration, as well as the method of calculating that internship. During the long-term application of this Regulation laying down the duties of therefore active military persons where the increased duration and method of calculating it is respected by an analysis and by a detailed breakdown, it has been established that not all the duties to which the persons employed have been assigned are strictly duties with reduced working conditions and which would require an increase-sustaining period of insurance. These amendments to the law, i.e. by this regulation, and now by amending the law on the one hand, we are talking about rationalising costs and we are talking about a direct financial impact that will be visible somewhere. As regards the Ministry of Defence at the monthly level, this is a savings of around 6 million kuna, but these proposed changes will allow longer working days for active military personnel working on duties that do not naturally require the maintenance of a high level of combat and psychophysical readiness in all conditions and at all times. Now, until the adoption of this new regulation, that is, the amendments to this law to retirement on average left 52 years of life. As a result, the Ministry of Defence has approached the review of these duties and has therefore proposed that active military personnel on certain duties and jobs be subject to difficulties in working conditions and in the nature of the conduct of the operations of the account insurance internships for an increased duration, so that every 12 months they are actually carried out on the duties and tasks of the active military persons accounts as 15, 16 and 18 months, respectively. What does that mean exactly? Until the adoption of this new regulation, i.e. the amendment now and this law of some 16,000 persons in service was covered by the benefits of a work effort, and with this new regulation and now the amendments to the law, that number has been reduced to around 10,000. Of these 10,000, about 6,000 are persons in the Guard brigades, and the rest, as already partly listed by the Minister of Divers, paratroopers, military and special police, is part of the intelligence system. We, too, believe at the SDP club, believe that this way of determining the benefits of a working internship was necessary, but we also think that there may be a need to mention the support and attitude of the trade unions of active military personnel who, in the preparation of this new regulation, have given support to the amendments to this law, because their position goes towards the fact that the benefited internship is one category that has been inherited from the former system and that not all active military persons should have it today. So sometimes he was actually worth going to early retirement in some way, there were then and the ratio of pension and wages different than today, but according to the union's position they also support a relatively large number of people who, even within the Ministry of Defence, want to work longer and have already made demands to allow them to work longer and that it should be discussed and that it is really time to support that they can't have an unfavourable job experience with those who, for example, possibly work in offices or those who hand over to some universities and so on, that in that part we should also make a difference as a SDP club, we support these amendments to the law and regulation report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16518	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. The next is the HDZ club and respected representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16519	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials with a Final Bill. The explanation given by the minister and from this text is really logical, and I think we will all agree in this Croatian Assembly that it is necessary for certain interests that there really is an unfettered work experience, but so often there has been illogicalness in the fact that the benefits of the work experience had been given to those who had nothing to do with it, and therefore we are in order to write precisely through the Government's regulation the jobs for which the benefits of the work experience will be considered. The fact that someone is an active military person does not in itself have to and should not mean that they have the right to an underprivileged job internship, but that it is the right to have or cannot have the right to an underprivileged job should first and foremost come from working conditions in a particular workplace. And that's really a logical explanation, and I think it's good not only for financial reasons, because these times of crisis and recession are putting us in a position to reconsider many decisions, but also the laws that have been made in other times than that, indeed, that this list that will be drawn up through the Government's regulation and that the benefits of the work experience will really be just and that it will really be as it is in this bill's proposal. However, I must express my concern that, through the creation of this government's Regulation on occupations, that is to say, the jobs for which the benefits of a work experience depended on the workplace of 15, 16 or 18 months will not be made according to names and last names. So, first of all, to be built on one thorough basis, I'd say analysis and that the future job experience, the benefits of a work experience are not someone who should have no right to do so. I am sure that all MPs in this House are absolutely in favour of the fact that Croatian soldiers who are on peacekeeping missions or police officers should undoubtedly have an unfettered internship or airmen, submariners, etc. But someone who spent his entire life in an office or office, who was to say so at headquarters, but spent the entire working life in an office or someone who spent the entire working life in a military school has no reason to have an unfettered job experience. However, I think it was often a problem for these people, because they had to retire relatively young people against their will. And on the other hand, this Law is also good because it will not force and force those who do not have the conditions for the benefits of working hours that they must do much sooner than they would like to finish their professional careers. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club, from everything said, will support the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16520	Thank you, too, dear representative Tomislav Ivić. The next club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16521	Mr. President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs. At first, the minister explained that it was a well-favoured job internship and that it was actually wearing this well-favoured job internship, and he mentioned among other things steam locomotives that it was no longer there, so there is no basis for a well-favoured job experience in that part-round business. The way this government works, we'll soon have steam locomotives. But don't forget that the conditions of working on the railway when we've already changed and they haven't changed at all, so when it's decided, I hope you'll have that in mind. Also, you gave one handsome comparison to say a cop certainly can't run for 40 years with a younger thief. But there is a railway between other jobs where the technology of work can neither change nor change. It's, like, a maneuverist. And I'm sure one maneuver at 65 has no chance of getting in between the cars. Okay, enough about my first love - the railroad. Now let's talk a little bit about this second part of the benefits of a military service. Before me, a colleague said they had their own union. I don't agree with that. It's another kind of people inside the morh. I'm interested in them, the military personnel, since they don't have, really they don't have their own union, they don't have the possibility of political engagement, they don't have the opportunity to talk through some other associations about their status, that is, this problem. Has anyone really done an analysis among these people who are going to go under this key so they can lose their benefits. On the other hand, this proposal is nowhere in the arguments, which explains how much savings there will be. I read it in one place, I even took it out that Minister Kotromanovic said he plans to save 20 million kuna from that base by the end of this year. I think it'd be nice to know. So the data in the media isn't accurate? But it would be correct if we had it in the material that we get when we have this discussion. I don't think it's insignificant either, before, say, a few days ago, we had a debate about children's extras, or the Law on Amendments to the Law on Child Compensation di just abolished a part of the solution won't be delivered to the parties and there's a planned savings of 2 million kuna. I think this is a far larger amount and it's more appropriate to mention this amount to the team before it goes to your hands, it's in your favor. As for those who absolutely support the revision of those jobs, i.e. the occupations that should be covered by the benefits of the work experience, i.e. the increased duration. But I'm asking a question which is, is this so far what this part of it is while some of them have consumed that right whether it's just that the regulation has counted too many jobs, that it's too broadly written or someone has abused that let's say the flexibility of the rules. If so, will you do something against the fact that we would not be in a situation like the IRS when we are explained here that someone has turned on the counter, the switch and now the tax collectors, the IRS workers who have been working on one of the instructions now will suddenly work after the switch is turned on will work fairly, correctly and everything will be in accordance with the law. I think it would be correct to say if there were any failures on that side and if there was anything that anyone would do about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16522	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16523	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS club will absolutely support these proposals. The debate on this will be very brief because here the question of the content of this is quite clear. The proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials with the final proposal of the Law was laid down on our benches with one very clear goal, which is to correct one anomaly and shame, one lack of criteria, an absolute lack of criteria in this law. The law, which is very likely and very certainly adopted and in the first variants with good intentions, however, is adapted as someone had just said names and last names, thus undermining the possibility that benefits absolutely deserved by professional soldiers and people who this society has exposed to the difficulties of carrying out their task, so the benefits that professional soldiers deserve were used without any basis. What's this about? It is clear that it is necessary for people who perform the most difficult tasks and also for those boys and girls we talked about this morning at points related to Afghanistan to ensure timely retirement by respecting the fact that during the conduct of their duties they are exposed to an increased level of stress often even to injuries, injuries, to do field jobs exposed to low temperatures, vibrations, noises, that they live absolutely in difficult conditions that leave lasting consequences for their health. And it is therefore necessary to have such a law that deals in a special way with people who perform those duties, the duties of professional police officers and professional soldiers, or military personnel. However, what has happened so far and the question is, how is it possible that this was happening? When this is read, it is realized that in fact everyone who was employed in the Ministry of Defence system, and those officers who did all the usual office work, they had the right to an unfettered job. What kind of message was it and what message was it to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to all people who are employed in professions that are exposed to difficult working conditions in the civil sector, and have absolutely no protection and no benefits? It's a splash to every construction worker, it's a splash to every sailor, it's a slap to every professional fisherman because they haven't had a job internship in a while, and many of them have a cell phone, but they're gone because they've lost their lives at sea by doing their profession. They performed professions and retired as professional fishermen from 65 years of age in a shamefully low pension, completely destroyed health and had no right to a professional job internship, a well-favoured working internship, and certain names and last names were the right of a well-deserved job internship completely undeservedly consumed and, of course, the real material damages of the Republic of Croatia. And that's true. It is true that no one in this House, and not even in the resolution ministry, has asked for years how justified it is and how morally and professionally acceptable the functioning of such a model is. The fact that only today we are correcting this anomaly is a shame for all the previous furniture that missed this issue. And someone asked what the final financial savings were? Anyway, it's not negligible. I would not deal with any assumptions, what is much more important than financial savings is the correction of the system of moral and professional norms and criteria that most devours this society and is the biggest problem and obstacle to the healing of this country because without norms and without criteria, without elemental morality and professionality, it will be very difficult for any minister to achieve success in his portfolio and we will very difficult all as a generation of Croatian politics that has a very large and important task ahead of them, and this is the task of survival, and we will very difficult to solve this task. The fact that this anomaly existed and that hundreds of privileged names and last names went into early retirement making fun of the railways, sailors, fishermen and others is a disgrace to the Croatian state. That's the real theme of today's point. The point is very clear in itself. For these reasons, the HNS club, with the hope that there will be similar legal corrections in the direction of positive moral, professional, prosperous, true, will support both points, i.e. the united point and the bill proposal and the accompanying regulation. Of course, expecting that the regulation properly valorises all the efforts and difficulties they face, professional soldiers in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the active military person, and with the hope that this regulation will not create new injustices and will be very precisely crushed and brought into the right state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16524	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB and counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16525	Here's Madam Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers and MPs and MPs seem to be one of the few who doesn't see so many anomalies here that need to be corrected now, so I'm actually in some way forced in the initial part of my address to look back on what the predecessors have said so far. So here's my predecessor talking about the current anomalies and the shame that the Defense Department officials had an unfettered job experience. I think also SDP representative Gordan Sobol, who spoke, spoke in a similar context as the union of the military supported these changes. So I think there's a misunderstanding here about some basic concepts, so that these basic concepts don't remain unclear should be mentioned that this is only about active military personnel. Therefore, active military personnel are persons who wear uniforms, who have the status of active military personnel. Neither in this law nor in the past, there has been a mention of the underprivileged job experience nor of the well-favoured work experience, and so far it has referred to military officials and military officers. So, those people who worked as civilians in the Navy or the Armed Forces. So far, the system of the benefits of the work experience has been applied exclusively to the personnel of the military. By regulation, i.e. by law now in force, a part of these active military personnel retains an unfettered work experience in a particular part, and the good part loses their benefits. So, active military personnel, not civilian persons, military officials and subsistence officers working at the MORH. When it comes to active military personnel, military personnel are first banned and cannot be organised on a union basis. So the army doesn't have its own union, soldiers, officers, officers don't have their own union. There's a union of military officers and deputies working in the military. So they don't have their own union. These persons, active military personnel work in uniform. These people go on the runway every morning, these people have an obligation to be in some psychophysical form and to meet the standards of body equipment, no matter how old they are, there is a rule that elaborates on it. These persons must also meet health standards regardless of their age, and there is also a rule that discusses it. These persons, regardless of what units they worked in, are also involved in operations in Afghanistan and all other peace operations. So this whole bill and this proposal has nothing to do with military officers and tenants, or civilians working in the sea. And now there's talk here about correcting some predecessors, anomalies and shame. What anomalies and shame? So, in the Republic of Croatia, this has been mentioned in the media before, there are about 84 professions that have an unfettered job experience. Some of them are already gone today, some of their industry professions. I'll list some of these occupations, categories that have a benefactory job experience: tram drivers, long-distance bus drivers, chimney drivers, detours, ballerinas, sailors, bats, smokers, singers, folklore dancers, divers, paratroopers, firemen, customs officers, police officers, military personnel. It's now part of the 84 categories that have the benefits of a job internship. The Government Regulation and this amendment of the law applied and applied exclusively to one group of all those who have a well-favourable working experience, to persons of the military. She referred in a way, the question I asked myself, which I had asked on the parent board was, and it was the Defence Committee, why if I wanted to go to the change of that system, and if they said that there was no benefits in the European Union, why didn't it go to one systematic solution that included all categories of those who have an unfettered work experience. She's already pulled out one group as some kind of test rabbit or as one victim, she's pulled out an army. Of course, the answer is self-inflicted, precisely because that only group doesn't have its own union. Of all these, it's the only group that has nothing to negotiate with, it's enough to make the regulation, it's enough to pass the law, there's nothing to negotiate or what to negotiate with, and it needs most hands to raise and we've solved the problem. Let us also remember that the president of the police union has made it clear to Minister Mrsic, if I recall correctly, that he is not touching the benefits of an internship in the police. Although the minister announced that he would take care of it, the army is now being pulled out. So, I'm neither defending nor attacking the question of this benefitsted employment, but I don't think it's fair and it's not fair that one group that can't actually defend itself, so it can't even answer, can't say what it thinks, because it has a public-level ban, and these are members of the armed forces, that it simply solves them in this way the question of their benefits. And I think that this issue should actually have been systematically resolved for all the categories they have today in the Republic of Croatia. Also, you get on many occasions today and in that... It's about Afghanistan, and now that it's about here, it's about some guys and girls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no boys or girls, there are soldiers and soldiers, officers and officers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. What guys, what girls? I mean, in some ways it is just as offensive to the members of the Armed Forces, as if they were to talk about us about boys and girls who speak in the Croatian Parliament, present their opinions or represent their citizens. ... Well, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, this change, I would in no way, then bring financial savings to the MORH, allegedly brings more than 50 million kunas at the annual level, and has its particular basis in the fact that indeed part of the Armed Forces is by force an opportunity due to the fulfillment of some years of employment, and in the process of reducing the armed forces, is somehow driven out of these Armed Forces. Someone here also mentioned those who spent the entire working life in headquarters or who spent the entire working life in the Croatian Military University. Yes, Armed Forces have their anomalies, so what someone was, spent 10 or 15 years in the Croatian Military School in uniform, thus progressing. It was either 15 or 20 years in some headquarters, it was an anomaly of the Armed Forces system. It's not a normal way to develop a career or an officer or an officer in the Armed Forces. So that doesn't usually happen. There is an amplitude, a development path that can be included in some career years and work headquarters in some military school centers. Yeah, when a man gets his doctorate, he'll be teaching at school for the last 10 years. Unfortunately, in the years when the Croatian state was created and social anomalies existed there were some anomalies within the armed forces system, but this is not a normal natural path how things usually happen in the military or in the armed forces. So these were actually deviations of the system, and there shouldn't be reasons why in this way you would simply tell me now of you 16 thousand members of you 10 thousand you have an unfettered work experience, you 6 grand don't have. Neither those 10,000 licks in the trench for 24 hours or those 6 grand sitting in the office for 24 hours. That's completely incorrect. I would therefore suggest that the promoter think a little bit more about it and that, without a debate in which we don't really have an interested party, does it not have the right to come forward a little bit more carefully to think about this whole issue and to get rid of the well-favoured work experience of the active military persons in a set of resolutions of all the categories to which the benefits are concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16526	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16527	Well, I'd just like to say briefly that I've probably made my own lapus Union of active military personnel a union of personnel in the military and state services. It's clear to me, too, that military personnel don't have a union, so this is what I'm correcting myself for. But I would still tell my colleagues Djurovic that they were talking until about a month or two ago, there were 16 thousand people who had achieved their work experience in one way or another, now this figure comes down to 10 thousand because within that system you had persons who had therefore received the status of an active military person and in reality they did not work on such jobs. I personally believe, and it seems to me that the public is also supporting, and so are those trade unions that I'm now talking about to sort it out in that way, and yet in some way correct and certain injustices. Because it's among those who really deserve the jobs that carry out the status that they have to have an unfettered job experience in relation to those who did not have to. I think tomorrow even I'd say it like this when we're still having negotiations about the MUP, or police officers, etc. I personally don't think a secretary in the M.P., or I don't know a kitchen employee in some M.O.P. canteen, should have an unfettered internship compared to a cop who's somewhere on the street or in some kind of patrol car or something like that. I believe that's where you should agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16528	Reply to the replica of counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16529	Thank you. ... The benefits of a work experience do not necessarily need to be resolved in any other way, so it does not have to be tied to a year of benefits at all. That's one thing. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] However, when we repeat the word to the military personnel of that person because they wear uniforms without the right of union organisation, they do not have the right to political organisation or political appearance, they cannot have their own company or their own craft because they are limited in their civil rights in relation to all others, because they are military persons. So they are nevertheless the very fact that they have a whole series of restrictions that do not apply to any other citizen and that is the part that is normal. So that kind of status has all the other people in the military anywhere in the world. But I pointed out once again about these officers, cooks, and so on in the army of cases as far as I know. So far, this number has been done by civilians in the military, thus neither by active military personnel nor by any means by those soldiers, officers or officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16530	Thank you. The second replica of counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16531	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Djurovic seems to me from what you said you didn't know the exact system of armed forces and the composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, if you knew him then you'd know that there are such cases. I'm not going to go into the details, and as far as your findings are concerned that we can't call active military personnel boys and girls, I may be here to apologize to you because that's what I'm left with, you know, from a time when I've been given orders from seniors to carry out a task, then I should tell my men let's go, boys. And that's all that's left. Here's my apology, if you consider the team at the Croatian National Assembly of my fellow officers and officers and Croatian professional soldiers offended, then in that case I accept your criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16532	Reply to the replica of counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16533	Thank you. Just for a little while. No... you insulted but not just you but more speakers used that term, so somehow it seemed a little inappropriate to me, and he was actually referring to those members of the armed forces who really risked their lives in distant Afghanistan as members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I didn't mean anything personal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16534	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Željko Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16535	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure for particularly justified state reasons. Therefore, the duties assigned to the military personnel are not all with difficult working conditions that would require an increase-sustaining insurance internship and thus allow for the rationalisation of costs and direct financial impact for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. For the same reasons, it is proposed that this law enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. Article 2 is replaced by the following: The Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials has been prescribed that an active military person, because of the difficult working conditions and the nature of the conduct of a job, is trained in an increased period of time so that, every 12 months, they are actually carried out in the performance of the work of an active military person as 15, 16 and 18 months, respectively. Under difficult working conditions and the nature of doing business, particular understanding is given to maintaining high-level combat preparedness at all times and in all conditions maintaining high psychophysical readiness, performing combat training in all conditions and for all forms of warfare, developing capabilities and skills in the use of modern fire and cold weapons and the skills of handling various explosive devices, reducing physiological functions of the organism to a degree that enables further successful military service to be carried out. Paragraph 3 of the same Article provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down the duties in which the insurance training is calculated with an increased duration and method of calculating that internship. The Regulation lays down the duties of active military personnel in which, due to the difficult working conditions and the nature of the conduct of operations, an account insurance internship with an increased duration and method of calculating that internship is to be carried out. Therefore, every 12 months, it is considered 18 months to be an insurance hold on the duties of airmen, paratroopers, divers, pyrotechnics, submarine divers, in the bar chamber and in peace operations. Every 12 months, it counts as 16 months of service insurance in the guard's unit for ammunition and mine explosives, ammunition mechanics and mine explosives, radiological, biological and chemical protection of a military police officer in intelligence and security services. Due to the obligation to maintain high-level combat and psychophysical preparedness at all times and to all conditions every 12 months, insurance shall be considered as 15 months on the duties to which military personnel are assigned, unless the military personnel are assigned to the duties laid down in this Regulation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The detailed analysis of the Regulation found that all duties to which the personnel deployed are not duties with reduced working conditions that would require an increase in the insurance period. Therefore, on the basis of a review of the duties, it is proposed that active military personnel on certain duties and jobs be subject to difficulties in the conditions of work and the nature of the conduct of operations of an account insurance internship for an increased duration so that, every 12 months, they are actually carried out on the duties and tasks of the active military persons as 15, 16, and 18 months, respectively. It is also proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lay down the duties on which, due to the difficult working conditions and the nature of the conduct of operations, account insurance internships with an increased duration and method of calculating that internship. On the day of entry into force of this Act, the Regulation amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials shall cease to apply. This law applies exclusively to active military personnel, so not to police officers. According to Minister Miranda Mrsic, anyone who does not work in the field has no need for an unfettered internship, except for an employee of the MUP. The fact is that all duties assigned to active military personnel do not require the calculation of the increased-term insurance rate, however, the same applies to police officers. All police officers enjoy the benefits of an intervention officer as well as a lecturer at the Police School. Although police officers are mentioned in this law, changes do not apply to them. According to the European Commission, the benefits of the police staff are defined by the Police Act. Article 17 is amended as follows: The law on police and the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, not the Ministry of Labour and the pension system proposed by the amendment. But the fact is that the benefits of a job are one of the few sectors where savings can be achieved without firing, especially since they are absolutely all employees in the police department. Beneficent work experience is a huge cost for the state, namely last year alone cost the state 6.8 billion kuna and was used by more than 168 000 people. Although most refer to defense pensions, 2 billion kunas have gone to the rest. There are as many as 84 categories of pension benefits in Croatia. Soldiers, cops, sailors, ballerinas and opera singers are just some of them. He leaves between 4 and 5.5 thousand employees each year for a preferential pension. Recently, Minister Linic voiced the view that Croatia must ban retirement before 65, and over time should consider increasing the age for retirement. He also recalled that moving the age limit has become a practice in the European Union countries and warned that the average age of our pensioners is 51 years. Minister Linic believes it is high time for such practice to end and that the fight for the remaining young people in the workplace must be one of the government's priorities. Croatia has high spending on preferential pensions, but also relatively high pensions for minimum salaries. Attention should be paid primarily to demographic-organisational reasons related to population ageing, and they differ greatly from biological ageing. This phenomenon is primarily marked by the high prevalence of privileged pensions, which are related to certain activities, i.e. occupations. If the situation in Croatia compares with the situation in the European Union, then it can be concluded that it comes out of the world of work quite early in Croatia. In the 27 member states of the Union, people from the labour market are about 62 years old, and in Croatia that limit has been reduced. The average age of Croatian pensioners is 51 years. In view of this, it is a fact that pensions are received quite long, which can eventually lead to an unsustainable financial situation. Although real pensions are relatively low in Croatia, the pension is about 41% of the average salary, and according to the Ministry of Peacekeeping, if they really worked full-time pensions would be 60%. Therefore, tightening the conditions for retirement is the only way for the situation to remain sustainable, i.e. not to deteriorate significantly. Then there are regulations relating to active military personnel, police and others, completely equating the conditions for pensions of active military personnel, police officers, members of security services with general regulations is almost or even completely impossible, but it is necessary to see how few less things can be removed that are not good. Therefore, it is necessary to give a well-favoured job internship only to those who are really employed in jobs that require additional effort. As far as the European Union is concerned, it could be said that it is almost unacquainted, and therefore Croatia is working on cutting it. In the European Union, each country determines for itself the age to retire, and the amount of pension depends on the payment of contributions during the working life. In 2007, in Bulgaria, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, the average pension amounted to around 3000 euros annually, while in Austria, Denmark, France, Luxembourg and Sweden, for example, was around 14 000 euros a year. The calculation of minimum pensions also varies in the European Union and depends on a number of factors such as annual inflation, living standards, income growth, gross national income and the like. In the European Union, difficult working conditions are compensated by salary levels and special insurance, while the benefits of the work experience are not common in working relationships. For all this, I support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16536	Thank you. The closing statement on behalf of Proposer Minister Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16537	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, very briefly. As for the savings themselves. The adoption of this law will result in savings in quotes amounting to around 59 and a half million kuna. However, this is not a right to save on the grounds that the application of the calculation of the periods of insurance with an increased duration for a smaller number of active military personnel will reduce so much payments in the pension system, and then finally, as far as the budget itself is concerned, it is neutral. But what will be in the future, that the burden will be significantly less, because there will be a smaller number of people who will have an unfettered job experience. Active military personnel, not only active military personnel. There was a correction. Therefore, there are also authorised officials and those working in the positions of active military personnel. Therefore, there are also things in the army system that need to be resolved and that is what the Ministry of Defence has already done in the good part. What is certainly an army when I talk about those places that deserve a well-deserved internship they will still remain and will continue to enjoy that part. But really someone who works in a military school or someone who sits in an office really doesn't need to have an unfettered job internship. Just to point out the same nonsensical that the sailors have an unfettered work experience. But when a sailor goes to teach at the Naval School, he's still got a certified internship. So we'll do the same thing. That's the other part of the job. I said we're going in three steps. So, that second part of the job where we're going to evaluate every job that has an unfettered job and see if that benefited job internship stays or if technology and the safety of the working environment has gone so far that there's no need for an unfettered job internship anymore. Customs have already reduced their benefits. So the customs officers were 12, the customs officers had 12 months of 16. Now they're all 12, 14. Negotiations are under way with police, as MP Mirkovic said, the benefits of an internship are under way in the Police Law, so negotiations with trade unions are under way to resolve the anomalies in the system when we talk about police. Thank you very much for supporting this law. I announce that we will probably have very soon and means in the first half of the following year and the Law on the Beneficent Job Stall where we will also reduce the number of professions that are simply no longer in Croatia and redefine those occupations that truly deserve a well-deserved job experience. And as far as the Western pension system itself is concerned, they have a system that we'll probably have and we'll just need a certain period of time, which means that for these services like the military, police, customs, the judicial police that they have special pension funds independent of funds based under the Pension Insurance Act. But that's the part that's coming to us in reforming the pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16538	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16539	Next final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, PZ No.162. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 117 for, 4 against the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, are in the text as proposed by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16566	And we're going to the next item on the agenda. It is - Proposal for a law on research, arrangement and maintenance of military cemeterys, cemetery of victims of World War II and postwar period, first reading, P.Z. No. 148. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. I'm asking the Proposer if they want to explain the proposal. He does. On behalf of the promoter, Defence Minister Mr Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16567	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There's a bill before you, and I'd like to explain it a little bit before the debate. For 20 years in Croatia, there is a day-to-day political war on the victims of World War II and porn. In those 20 years, nothing systematic has been done to benefit victims, their families, and finally society as a whole. The purpose of this war was not to fight for the right to access victims with dignity, and we do not want to participate in such a war, but we also intend to commit ourselves to preserving the right to a worthy grave for all victims of World War II and postwar period, which is finally a civilization achievement. And today we don't have a law that deals with all the victims. We have a partial solution involving the military cemetery of members of foreign armed forces and victims of the post-war period after 9. May '45. A year. The fact is that even then the opposition in 2011 voted in favour of the Law on finding and marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, which it considered moral and justifiable. That is why the essence of this law has not been amended in any article by the proposal for a new law. The only thing that changes is the mechanism, i.e. the law enforcement body. The improvement of relations with the victims of the Second World War and the postwar period is necessary because of the normative gaps that cause different problems that all the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the present one have encountered. What problems are most often handled best seen from the following examples. In 1999, the Commissioner for Honoring the fallen in the War of the Italian Republic reported to the Commission for Victims of War and Porage in the Republic of Croatia today there is no today that in Russia, Italian soldiers were exhumed 16 remains of Croatian soldiers killed under Italian command who were transported to Italy. It is proposed that the Republic of Croatia take over the remains of its citizens. Due to the lack of legal regulation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in 2008 to take over the remains of the Department of Detained and Missing Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which returned the remains to Croatia after 65 years where they were properly taken care of. It took eight years for this case to be solved. In 1992, the Assembly Commission for Victims of War and Pores exhumed nearly 1200 postmortem remains on Macele, and in extremely inappropriate conditions unworthy of the victims in the Taiwanese space of the Department of Pathology in Shalata, where due to lack of jurisdiction they remained for 13 years. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2005 The Department for Prisoners and Missing has arranged a decent disposal of the remains found. After 60 years, the Macelic victims were properly taken care of and co-ordinated with the Associations Officer Club 242, Croatian Domobran, Croatian Society and with the help of the Catholic Church. Later during the debate, I can show you photos of the relationship between each other and those victims. So it took 8 or 13 years for these cases to be solved and only because we don't have a legal framework, we don't have the competent authorities. That is precisely what motivated us to establish a system that will work on the permanent preservation of the memory of all the victims in World War II and the postwar period, to identify and mark the victim's place of death, to take care of the remains and to care for the maintenance of cemeteries to which the name of this law itself bears witness. It is worth once again to point out the fundamental principle of the new law, which is the right of all victims to a decent resting place. Finally, before the debate begins, allow me to point out a few more important points of view. Let us ask ourselves what has been done on this matter in the past 20 years? Unfortunately, here today, we will hear very conflicting opinions, which means that in the heads of many World War II, the war is still going on, and we want them to finally finish, and to remain current only to historians and those institutions that can bring the perpetrators to justice, and that Croatia will finally turn to the future. I personally don't have any ideological problems or prejudice on this subject, which means that for me, like it or not, Badger and Jadovno are identical concepts because in these places people have been killed and it's our duty to make sure they're properly buried, all of them, that's our fundamental goal. Perhaps Article 12 and paragraph 2 best speaks of these objectives, and I quote: "The inscription on the cemetery contains facts about the number and circumstances of the victims' loss without expressions that encourage hatred and revenge." We will work under a motto already known in this House, discover, explore, exhume, identify and bury. This is also important, all staff of the office can stay working on the same jobs, and all members of the previous Governing Council can become members of the commission only will not have an 8-year term and will be volunteers. The strongest argument of those who oppose this law will be doubting the political pressure to obstruct the work of researching post-war strategists. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister personally praised and supported the bill, and I would like to remind you that the 2006 Parliamentary Declaration on the condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia has been adopted since '45. '90s. and not on the proposal of the then Government but on the proposal of three HSP representatives, and that this law is not in any part of the conflict with it, although it is still qualitatively complemented which is easily verifiable and is easy to see. Be assured, too, that I will personally be able to respond adequately to any possible political pressure for future work under this law. Here, before the debate begins, I appeal and call on everyone to approach this problem in a reasoned manner, not politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16568	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, on behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16569	Madam Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government held its session on 19 September this year where he discussed this proposal of the Law on Research and not to read everything that happened on the committee itself. In the discussion itself, the Committee members pointed out that this bill increases the financial obligations of units of local self-government which primarily relate to the permanent maintenance of military cemeterys and cemeterys of civil victims of war and post-war periods. The board members pointed out the need to prescribe mandatory funding laws from the state budget of all the conservation procedures mentioned in all the victims and thus the maintenance of these cemeteries. And after the debate was held, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) self-government took the majority of votes, 5 votes for and 3 votes abstentions decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the following conclusion: 1) The proposal of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the post-war period 2) will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16570	Thank you. The other committees aren't answering. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a club debate. The first is the SDP club and colleague Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16571	Respected vice presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs a few words with a proposal for a new law. So despite the fact that dealing with post-mortem remains of the victims of World War II and the post-war period in the Republic of Croatia has been arranged for now by two laws, primarily by the Law on the Marking and Maintenance of Cemeteries and Graves of the Dead, Dead Internators of '92. The Law on finding and marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after the Second World War of 2011, unfortunately, we have an empty vacuum or void, i.e. a legal vacuum or void, for the reason that no law covers the victims of persons, people of World War II. Namely, the current situation in the area of post-war management and the cemeteries of the victims of World War II in the Republic of Croatia does not satisfy the necessary level of effort for victims of World War II and post-war victims to be properly marked by eternal resting places and to ensure the permanent maintenance of graves and memorials to the victims of World War II. Therefore, none of these two laws are intended to deal with newly discovered World War II victims' military cemeteries. Therefore, there is no permanent maintenance of World War II war victims' military graves in the Republic of Croatia as regulated for example. The implementation of international agreements on the protection of military graves as regulated in the Republic of Germany, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia is not envisaged in the Republic of Slovenia. In these countries, there is a systematic issue of research, marking, maintenance and care for war graves, individual tombs, mass graves and monuments for war victims. A few words for which I think it is very important to highlight, which is the general objective of the law which represents the establishment of a system to preserve the memory of all the victims in World War II and the postwar period, and the introduction of this objective and this law follows from the Geneva Convention of '49. the year of the additional protocols of 77, the Law on the Finding, the marking of the maintenance of the 1992 cemetery, the Law on the Finding, the marking of the graves of victims of communist crimes after the Second World War of 2011 but also the completion of interstate agreements on the arrangement of military graves between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Germany, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia. Namely, there is a belief in the Republic of Croatia that soldiers and civilians who have lost their lives due to various military acts in World War II, but also in the postwar period and have the right to a decent resting place. I repeat, they have the right to a decent resting place. The basic issue to be addressed by this bill is research, editing and a worthy permanent marking of post-war victims and graves, and keeping records, setting up a database of individual and mass graves of post-war victims and the number of post-war remains identified therein. The law also regulates the transfer and decent disposal of the remains of the second, victims of World War II and the post-war period when it is in the public interest, and should be or should the remains be found in infrastructure, different urban or other works and their recording and recording of the databases. But the law also regulates the permanent maintenance of military graves and the graves of civilian war victims and the postwar period. The law provides for procedures for dealing with all post-war victims of World War II and post-war periods and for the further planned research, editing and maintenance of post-war law victims' graves, which is covered by the 2011 law. Some think that it is abolished and that it is actually not, that it will no longer exist, but the new law only builds on such rights and provisions. Permanently arranged is the maintenance of military graves and graves of the civilian victims of World War II, which was partially covered by the 1992 law. This approach to regulating the treatment of postmortem remains of all victims refers undoubtedly to a higher level of protection and preservation of reference to the victims of World War II and the postwar period. And it is based on a position promoted by international humanitarian law and a series of European bodies resolutions. Yes, primarily soldiers and civilians who have lost their lives because of various military or other activities have the right to a decent marking and an eternal resting place for the purpose of giving out their pies. I stress that this was one of the conclusions of the commission, or the Governing Council of the State Office, to find the crimes of communist, communist crimes after World War II. So, this law represents a civilization step and a message to the European Union, erases the aforementioned legal void or legal vacuum that has existed so far because all remains are in a decent way being cared for. The implementation of interstate contracts is being established, which is particularly important, which have not been respected so far, primarily between the Republic of Germany, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Slovenia. The affairs of the office so far are expanding because the investigation of the crime is not within the scope of the state office's affairs, it was in the description of the DORH and the interior ministry's affairs. And in addition to the inscription on the arranged cemetery of postwar victims, a religious feature may be set up that has not been defined by previous laws. And allow a system of regulation and monitoring with postmortem remains. Respecting the very simple principle that he was the victim, the victim no matter who filed it, and that he was a crime, no matter who committed it. We keep in the SDP's club that this law is one civilization step and in any case. To allow me to remind at the end of the debate, as the minister also said in the former assembly of this Parliament, the law is backed by almost political consensus. And that, in fact, the 2011 law was a civilization turning point that further regulated and solved these problems, and this law only builds on that part and improves those relations especially with international contracts and international law. Therefore, the new bill represents an upgrade of the existing laws of 92 and 2011, but it also strengthens the decentralisation process in the Republic of Croatia with a minimal financial burden on local self-government units. I stress that the law should be discussed very rationally without euphoria and political folklore, and therefore the SDP representative club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16572	Thank you. It is up to the club of HDZ representatives and on behalf of the club, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16573	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. HDZ will not support the Bill's proposal to investigate, organise and maintain military cemeteries, cemetery victims of World War II and postwar periods. And it's not because we feel we don't need to investigate, edit and maintain a cemetery, not to investigate and punish every crime, and that every victim has the right to a decent burial, a grave and an eternal resting place. It's a matter of drinking to every victim, and I'd say a civilization achievement. And that is why the HDZ and HSS club proposed last year, and the Croatian Parliament also passed the Law on the finding, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after the 2nd World War that regulated this problem, and as I recall that bill was supported in this high home and SDP club. Therefore, the fact is that there is a good legislative regulation, and it should also be recalled that this existing, still law, applicable law, has been passed on the basis of two Council of Europe documents and on the declaration of the Croatian Parliament. The Council of Europe Assembly adopted its resolution in 1841, 2006 and the Croatian Parliament adopted the Declaration on the Conviction of Crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 45 to 90 in June 2006 and adopted a Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism in 2009 on the 20th anniversary of the collapse of communist dictatorships. So the existing law was passed on the basis of those three documents. Resolution 1481 states that in the last century there were communist regimes that committed crimes, that victims of communist crimes deserved compassion, understanding and recognition of suffering. The assembly condemns human rights violations by communist criminals. The European Consciousness Resolution sets out that honor for communist victims is the basis for further co-existence, stresses the importance of keeping the memory of the victims because there cannot be reconciliation without truth and memory. It calls for support from NGOs studying the period, stressing the importance beyond the political resolution of the historic issue. Therefore, the current law does not politicise the victims, condemns as much Nazism as communism for the crimes committed. The current law does not apply to the period of World War II because the graves of the anti-fascist coalition soldiers as well as civilian war victims are regulated and guaranteed by the Law on the Protection of NOR fighters and the Law on the Protection of Victims of Fascist Terror and Civil Victims of 1990. The soldiers of the Ustasha Domobran army are not covered because they are not victims of communist crimes but of war victims. Their graves do not exist because the order of the 45th year gave them to be beaten by then federal secretary Vicko Krstulovic. Therefore, the existing law well regulates the problem of victims after the end of World War II more precisely after 9th of May 1945 without needless politicisation of oil spilling on fire, without the need for further ideological and any other divisions in Croatian society. And there really is no need for a new law that will put the existing law out of force. It is particularly unacceptable that the bill abolishes the Office for the Finding and Marking of the Graves of Victims of Communist regimes as an independent right of persons and that the Government and the Parliament have control over them because they have a new administrative council. And in the committee's session when we discussed this bill, your deputy, Mr. Minister, presented a whole series of commendations to the office's work how the office works well, how well it works and how we don't really see the need and what's the reason why it wants to do that that the office is gone. Such a proposal is contrary to the EU's view of parliament that the body investigating communist crimes must not be an integral part of political institutions. In this regard, the president of the majority party group in the EU, Mr Dol, also gave the opening letter. Instead of an independent body that is abolishing jobs, we are pushing under the political patronate of Croatian Defence Ministers and Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, a legitimate question arises, will the abolition of the office also stop the job of finding, researching and marking the graves of the victims of communist crimes as it was stopped in 2002 when Racan's government abolished the commission for war and war victims and transferred the work to the ministry responsible for science? Or is it precisely the real and only goal of this law to stop further finding and exploring and marking the graves of victims of the communist regime? It's absolutely unsustainable to transfer the office's affairs to the Department of Defense. What does the Ministry of Defense have to do with the victims after World War II? The Ministry of Defence has a clear task and role, which is the Homeland War and victims of the Homeland War. It is true that in the Ministry of Defense there is a Department of Detained and Missing who is doing the job of finding mass graves, identifying victims, marking these places. But it should also be said that in Croatia we are still looking for almost a thousand victims from the Homeland War. Won't the transfer of these jobs to the Croatian Defence Ministry slow down the process? And why should the Department of Detained and Missing do what shouldn't be and isn't in the description and list of her duties? It is also unacceptable, and it seems to me to be the practice of this government that all legal regulations resulting from some new cost shifts to someone else in this case to units of local self-government. It doesn't make any sense that units of local self-government take over the cost of marking and maintaining the place of mass graves, especially as it will be the rule of those smaller units of local self-government, because these crimes generally took place in difficult accessible places, not to say in the back of God's feet, and there will be no doubt that they will fall on a unit that will have neither the possibility of material, nor the financial, nor any other. And that should be taken into account in these difficult, difficult times. So there are many reasons that HDZ will not support the bill. The existing law is good, the existing law and the office began to function and already has the results of the work of that office and apparently the new law should stop the work of that office and push this job to the secondary track, as did Racan's government in 2002, when it abolished the commission of war and war victims and transferred that work to the Ministry of Science, now it is being transferred to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, which should have nothing to do with the same goal, stop the processes of finding the place of thousands and thousands of victims of the communist regime and this whole job and the truth about what happened in the period of '45. '90s. year, pushed into the seal as it was in that period of '45. '90s. A year. And you ask what happened over the past 20 years at least there was a good will to open this question and start the process, and I ask you what's been going on since '45. '90s. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16574	Thank you, colleague Ivić. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16575	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HNS Club and in my personal name, I would like to congratulate our vice president, ladies, on the successful and peaceful continued conduct of all the debates. What I'd say in front of the club is that we don't have to let our emotions take over here and start talking about this very important law. What we as a HNS club certainly support, is that this law shows first of all a large amount of humanity, that it is civilized and that it is non-discriminatory, that there are neither defeated nor defeated in this law. Unfortunately, we citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and especially the majority of the Croatian people, love to look for the defeated and defeated in everything. And instead of having this law, this is the first reading, that we have a reasoned debate and that we try to let the tensions we talk much more in Croatia about World War II than the Homeland War. Why open those topics that we'll always have problems with. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate the minister and his team who have set up this law and who are giving certain steps and trying to move this issue away from our senses, move away from all kinds of ideologies. As I said, this law has neither winners nor defeated, here we want to pay tribute to all the victims of World War II and the post-war period. I think it's clear enough here that every soldier, every victim, has the right to mark his grave, regardless of the uniform and whatever side he fought on. I think we should all respect that. The bill that we are discussing today no doubt provides for a higher level of protection and preservation of memories of the victims of World War II and of the post-war period, and is based on a position that promotes international humanitarian law and a series of European Union resolutions that soldiers, civilians, who have lost their lives because of various military and other actions, have the right to dignity and eternal rest. This was regulated by the provisions of the Geneva Convention of the 12th August 1949 and the supplementary protocols of 8 June 1977 on the protection of victims of international armed conflicts in accordance with Resolution 14/81 on the international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes. The current situation in the Republic of Croatia in the area of post-mortem remains regulated by the laws of the National Journal 91/92 and the National Journal 31/211 is more or less embedded in the proposal for a new law, but since those laws are not regulated or envisaged to deal with newly discovered military cemetery, how we will permanently mark and maintain military cemetery, the protection of military cemeteries of persons from the Republic of Croatia abroad, the implementation of interstate agreements on the protection of military cemeterys, Germany, Italy and the special interest of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia. What the proposal for a new law that the HNS club certainly supports can be divided into several units. Research and editing of post-war victims' cemetery, dealing with post-war victims' remains and victims of World War II and post-war victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' victims' permanent maintenance, post-war burial, the Committee for Research, Planning, the maintenance of World War II victims' military cemetery and the post-war cemetery. What is very good in this law is Article 2 which accurately defines what the victims of World War II, the victims of the postwar period, the military cemetery, the military cemetery abroad, the cemetery of the victims of war, the cemetery of the victims of the postwar period, the cemeteries and the graves which are the arrangements of the cemetery, the maintenance of the cemetery and the research of the cemetery. What was also important was that in this law there should certainly be anticipated and expressions that signify common tombs and mass graves. What I would also point out in a standoff in front of HNS that in the time after World War II ended from May 9 to 15, 1945, there are a large number of members of the Armed Forces both the Antifascist Coalition, the winners and those who have been defeated that there are several thousand victims on both sides. What's also interesting is that in these common and mass graves they were buried together, not knowing which are which. I think it is time for this House to find in one debate a dignified place for all of us in Croatia to agree on where we will mark for those victims who have lost their lives both in World War I, World War II and in the postwar period and to be one of the ways of reconciliation within Croatia as a state. What I also like about this bill is Articles 4 and 5. They prescribe that certain jobs that are related to the missing, to the dead, to the graves discovered and found, that this record is kept in one place, regardless of whether it's defeated or the winning side. I think it's a good step. Also, Articles 38 and 41 speak about what Ivić was talking about. And I think that should be reflected in that proposal for non-civil organizations to take care of. Because we in the Croatian People's Party are convinced that there are no hidden games here, that we want to decently and in the right way to mark all the dead in World War II and after the war period. I would also mention here, none of my colleagues has yet to say in Article 42 that the minister will have to bring in three new regulations in a short time – the rules on registration, the rules on how to mark and the rules on how to maintain the cemetery and the places where the victims were killed both from World War II and after the war period. What I would certainly disagree with is that in 18 years everything new happens we put everything on local self-government units. I don't think it's gonna be good enough quality and uniform enough. So to be equal in all places can be a problem to talk about in the Croatian Parliament that they are not worthy. I think it should be another way to achieve the same way of marking, the same way of keeping, the same quality of memory of all the dead and killed in the times behind us. This same-sharp law was welcomed by both the left and the right. Neither are, nor are they satisfied. That's why I think this law is on the right track, trying to find one balance to properly remember all the victims, because that's both a civil and a human question. I believe that after all the debates after the first reading that the minister and his Ministry of Defence will surely accept certain proposals and in a quality way bring in one document that is very valuable to us at the HNS and perhaps the first step towards seeing these times behind us, with about the same eyes or approximately the same glasses. Once again, I congratulate the minister of courage and on a very good bill that we believe that by the second reading we will certainly get an even better law that will be used by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16576	Thanks, buddy. On behalf of the IDS club, he was supposed to speak to a colleague named Damir Cain, and he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So follow the HDSSB club. On behalf of the club, colleagues Drazen Djurovic and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16577	Here comes Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Ministers, MPs and MPs. Here are several speakers who come with the so-called. We have heard calls to reason, to avoid politicizing, to some extent as if here at this late hour, with such a small number of representatives present in the assembly counting some kind of politicization, enhanced politicisation of this topic, although I think that if there is some politicisation then that politicisation actually comes in some way with this very bill of law. So, on the Defence Committee, there was a deputy minister, there was no minister here, so I asked a few questions that I received rather vague answers. The first question is why the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crime Victims After World War II is abolished. It's just why it's being abolished and it's not being abolished, it's completely disintegrating. So, like in the hostage room. He's got some shape, some form, some content. He's completely disintegrated, and like that cast iron, he's pouring into another mold. There's nothing left of him. Second question, and why the D.A.'s office? The third question, if at the Ministry of Defence already and if I don't know why it would have been in the Ministry of Defence, why didn't it find a way that no one had found any negative words, why didn't the office with its activity, employees, archives and staff form within the ministry as an example of a separate department. There won't be any more independent offices, but there will still be a group of these people and this archive and what they did inside the Defense Department. Oh, no? And of course the fourth question is, is the question why all together to a good extent on the burden of units of local self-government. But that's what Agent Vinkovic is going to do. In an explanation, the deputy said that this law achieves a higher level of protection of victims, decent treatment and possible prosecution of the body of repression against the perpetrators of certain criminal offences, as it achieves transparency in financing with minimal fiscal burden. How this law in some way is a step forward and sublime until now and further improves. The HDZ representative who spoke on behalf of the club quite well actually described one whole of this foreign-political aspect of this situation around this law. So, more or less the gains of modern Europe today, one of the gains is also the condemnation of totalitarianism and communism and fascism. We've accepted everything. We accept all gains and economic and social and financial and sociological. But some find it very difficult to accept this material condemnation of totalitarianism and communism and fascism. Some. Well, I think among them, now, I think there's a part of them that actually created one of these kinds of laws. So what's the goal, then, of one of these complex laws? In my opinion, in some ways in this law is actually going after inaction as a fundamental intensities total of this law is inaction. It's not doing it. It's not doing it. It's not doing it. And when it comes to moving forward and putting into the activities of the Ministry of Crime Research, i.e. the victims of both the graves and the tombs of the victims of World War II, regardless of the side they were on, on the one hand and on the other, the victims of the communist regime will all together investigate the Ministry of Government in which most of them, which actually makes one party party who is the direct follower of that party who was the bearer of these crimes in some way diminishes the credibility of the intention of you, in the first order of communist crimes, that these crimes are really being investigated. Is it more credible to investigate communist crimes involved in the activities of the State Ministry of the Party of the Communist Party which, at some point, committed a crime than to investigate an independent state office that is under the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament, for example? I don't see what a step forward in lighting up communist crimes is being achieved here. Also, this law can be commended indeed, here I would commend it to say so in the postwar section on dealing with the remains of the victims of World War II and the victims of the postwar period. Therefore, these are articles 18 to 24 where the process of dealing with the found remains of the victims has been described in more detail where it has not been worked out so well so far and some problems have arisen. But when it comes to exhumation, identification or transfer of remains, there's a whole other thing. This law goes for it not to be done. A completely different matter of cemetery was created during World War II, where massively stored soldiers of any army, independent of any army, and it was large cemeterys with hundreds of victims compared to the various pits in which 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 people were thrown from some village after World War II. So they're not the same categories, they're not the same kind of events after all. This law stipulates that the costs incurred by exhumation, identification, transfer of post-mortem remains are borne by the applicant and not by the state, not by the Republic of Croatia, not by the Ministry. So if any cemetery is identified there won't be any exhumation, no identification, even if it's probably two people who are known to have been liquidated from the neighboring village in '47. But if anyone cares, they'll pay for it. Who needs to pay for that? Because this stems from these articles of the law which do not actually provide that the exhumation, identification and transfer procedures of the remains are at all carried out, i.e. to be carried out only or in exceptional cases, i.e. their costs borne by the applicant. We therefore believe that the intention, therefore, is not about the victims of the Macelic forest, of course not, but when it comes to individual victims of post-war communist crimes and the liquidation of the law does not provide for their identification, which could be possible without such significant costs. Here's my colleague Vinkovic to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16578	By the time my colleague Vinkovic arrived, I would only tell my colleague Djurovic that the SDP will in no way obstruct or hide communist crimes. To inform you, we brought back a historical declaration in 1990 condemning all the communist crimes of '45. '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16579	And a little later on about changing the SDP program to my insistence when I was in one discussion with my colleague Vujic. But counterpart Djurovic points out a legitimate concern that just by abolishing this office and transferring it to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, whether only the Croatian Defence Ministry is the best solution, so justifiable concern, and on behalf of the HDSSB club, we point out that by abolishing this office will, above all, come to a standstill in the investigation of communist crimes. But I will rely more on this part that applies and what I said on behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, because this law is related therefore to a number of other laws where it has just imposed a new obligation on units of local self-government, and Mr. Ministers you must acknowledge that all units of local self-government are normal and the City of Zagreb is a unit of local self-government, but they have no ability and fiscal capacity to further maintain such a cemetery from their budgets. So I am aware that there may not be so much funding in the state budget, but the laws that this Croatian Parliament brings cannot, in terms of decentralisation, impose new obligations on local self-government units, while at the same time not being accompanied by fiscal decentralisation itself which will allow local self-government units to have higher incomes, I do not only mean income tax on this game which was a few months ago with income tax but here I think of other types of taxes that are exclusively at this point in the income of the state budget. VAT, profit tax, real estate tax, etc., etc. There I do not mean the abolition of the municipal fee and the new property tax, even the inability to set it very quickly within a quick deadline but simply the inability especially in Slavonia units of local self-government which have an exceptional and at this point reduced, reduced revenue, revenue from the budget. Unbound only for the number of employees, the number of unemployed, and above all, because that rate of income tax increase of 1.5% did not increase income to local self-government, it had just reduced it or at the same time that non-taxable part of personal income increased from 1800 to 2400. I can, uh, testify as mayor of Djakov if we had, before, so this law, I'd say we went ahead of my time. First of all, this refers to a truly great monument to Croatian defenders, academic sculptor Petar Barisic, who was appointed in 2001. There is also a newly decorated city cemetery with a monument also for Croatian defenders, Mother who prays, academic sculptor Ivan Križanci. There are also among the first cities, therefore, in Croatia the monument to the victims of communism, the Head of Tone, the academic sculptor Antun Babic. But what I want and especially, especially the prominent city of Đakovo as an example, is the editing and marking of all victims of Nazi terror in the concentration camp in Đakovo and throughout Croatia. Where Djakovo, with the Jewish municipality in Osijek and with the European Union's resources, has arranged and marked all the graves of the victims of Nazi terror. So what I want to point out is that, first of all, we had opportunities, but we also had the will to mark all these events from the tumultuous history of Croatia. But by passing this law, here as a representative, and as mayor, I cannot accept that the entire obligation and practically and arrangements, and maintenance, and all that will be related to such a cemetery falls upon the burdens of the local self-government unit. And I express, therefore, my concerns again that just by abolishing this office and breaking up into the ministry, it may happen that this good work of this Office for the Study of Communist Crimes simply ceases, and here I am after, and my family, after almost over 60 years, here I want to know where my grandfather ended up, whether he ended up on the Bleiburg, the Crossroad or when he left Zagreb somewhere simply disappeared. So, I think this office should stay, if that's the Department of Defense at the Department of Defense, but it shouldn't have been abolished in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16580	Finish your coworker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16581	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16582	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic's counterpart on the part of the presentation of Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16583	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. That's right, on a colleague of Djurovic's. I don't see that there's anything in question that the D.A.'s in charge of these matters. It is the Ministry of all Croatian defenders, at least so I understand, both those from the Homeland War and all who have brought their lives and struggle into the foundations of the independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. And since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also writes and calls for anti-fascist fluids, I believe that they are all anti-fascist fighters. The Vice-President of the Parliament said part of what I wanted to tell you about the SDP, because the SDP is formally a follower of the Croatian Communists' Union, but the Croatian Communists' Union, on his behalf or some individuals from it, are committing crimes. It wasn't the SDP. If we're going to talk about the communists, there are former, highly-convinced communists in your party. I am not a communist, I am a member of the Social Democratic Party of colleagues, and an emphasis on the Social Democratic Party. I'm a socialist. My parents were also killed on the crossroad and later. My grandfather was shot by partisans, but unfortunately among anti-fascists, as well as among defenders there were dolls and those who looked at their interests or petty interests, before and before their honorable duties and honorary actions of defending the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I'd say there's no enemy in the cemetery. They're all equal in the cemetery, and all victims are equal, all regimes, and communist, fascist, someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16584	Reply to the replica of Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16585	Well, I think you've got something, maybe mixed up or misunderstood. So this is about the victims of World War II regardless of what army they belonged to. So they weren't all anti-fascists or fascists, so regardless of what army they belonged to, if they're in the cemetery, it's about marking those cemeterys. I didn't double that. And whether it is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, all German soldiers, meaning those who were killed on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, the Italian or not, is that precisely the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, Croatian defenders. Well, if you think it's your right. Secondly, as far as the SDP is concerned, I didn't mean in any way to imply anything special, but I just wanted to point out that, therefore the inherited property, so if you take possession of the property, you must have taken over the legal succession from everything that follows. I didn't doubt that at all, I think of the character of today's SDP, I didn't imply it at all. But I wanted to say yes, and I'm going to repeat once again, the legal sequence, and the current SDP is a legal sequence, although I'm not a lawyer, but here's a lawyer who knows it better, so if the current SDP is the legal sequence of that SK. Not to see how more or more high-quality communist crimes are investigated, if this is put in place, this research if an independent office is shut down and if this research is placed under the authority of a ministry that is part of the executive government. That's what I'm implying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16586	Another replica of the presentation of his colleague Vinkovic has a colleague, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16587	Here I would not replicate here, but when my colleague gave good information that the city of Djakovo is one of the first cities to build a monument for the crimes of the communist system. He didn't mention another thing, that the city of Djakovo also marks the Macedonian cemetery. Unfortunately, Djakovo repeatedly wrote to the Embassy of the Republic of Macedonia that in one place in the Budrovci suburban settlement, there is a cemetery that Djakovo is trying to edit with his efforts. Here we also think that here I suggest to Mr. Minister that he step in with the competent institutions of the Republic of Macedonia in a common way to mark the place where people were killed, where they were buried. So I say with all the other things that my colleague said, I think that's good and that these are good examples for everyone else. Normally what I said and in my debate that they should achieve the same criteria in all such places where people in World War II and post-war traits were killed because what we did in the Republic of Croatia to mark the Homeland War regardless of whether they were in Knin, Vukovar, Ilock or down at Konaval that they were the same. I think it's a good thing and it's a recognizable monument that symbolizes the Homeland War. I think we should certainly take advantage of the possibility and contact with other republics of the former Yugoslav state to try to regulate it in a decent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16588	Reply to the replica of colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16589	How good it is to have a deputy in the Parliament. I didn't make it because I was running out of time, but here's the reason why I insist that this is the first reading because this law really transfers all the obligations to local self-government units. And there's an open question that we have a series of municipalities that I can barely say work like that, maybe they don't even have a salary for the chief. With this law that has both intended and criminal provisions, there is also the possibility for the ministry to exercise supervision, that if the unit of local self-government and not all units of the city of Zagreb and large cities but there are also a number of municipalities to order a simple unit of local self-government if it cannot send its contractors, burdens the unit of local self-government, etc. I believe that when reading the second reading in full and maintenance, and not only access roads, the marking should go right to the burden of the state budget, or the Law on the financing of local self-government should be amended so that this unfair ratio of 97% of tax revenues to the state budget, and 3% including the city of Zagreb towards local self-government units is changed. And colleagues to Hajdukovic I don't know I wasn't the same member of the Communist Union, I'm proud of those 20 years of social democracy. I am still a Social Democrats in the HDSSB but in any case we express a legitimate concern that by abolishing this office by creating a commission that will be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will stop investigating communist crimes. Not wanting to be back in '45. Not in the '90s. neither in 2000 nor in 2008 First of all, it's pawned. [[You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16590	You can't replicate Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16591	A sentence of honor to the Vice President. So, first of all, we're in favour of cutting off all the crimes no matter who committed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16592	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Vice President of the House Mr. Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16593	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. Well, I have to admit, I'm fascinated by the fact that history repeats itself. So now we have before us a bill of law which will end the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after the 2nd World War as an independent person and its activity will fit into the Ministry of Defense. The exact same, the same story was happening and now the coalition with the SDP is headed. In 2002, at the head of the coalition that reigned was the SDP that practically happened similarly in just one other ministry blended in, then it was the Ministry of Science. And then it wasn't about the office because there was a commission to identify war and war victims and that tried to develop one activity. She hasn't been as far developed as the office has now managed to develop, everyone admits that the office has started working, that it works. But after it's been blended into the Ministry of Science, there's not a single shovel stuck in the ground and nothing's been done. So, of course, something similar can be expected to happen especially when it comes to funding. Money will never be enough in these difficult times and when the budget will be made when the division will be for the Ministry of Defence and of course when it will be necessary to distribute money whether they will be distributed for living so Croatian defenders who are in need who have very big problems, families of dead defenders etc. Or they'll need some exhumation to find money, of course they'll always give advantage to the living on the one hand. On the other hand, in order to fully cement this, it is still determined that funding will be transferred to units of local self-government that are generally poor, small places where such possible remains are found and it is quite certain that none of this will happen. I believe in the good faith of some people who are involved here but it will end this way and it is quite certain that it will end that way. When I said history repeats itself, then I can't take the impression of what kind of environment this debate takes place in. First, there are very few of us here, everything happens in the late afternoon, 6 p.m., no media, no journalists about it will probably not appear in the media either, and I said that history is repeated because when the resolution was passed, then when the Council of Europe resolution was passed, and then in June 2006, the Croatian Parliament brought a declaration of condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia in 1945 until 1990, and then the debate was held in the late hours when journalists had already left the Parliament and the next day the media reported nothing. She was later mentioned several times by the most Croatian public, in fact, does not know about her. Now the debate is happening again far from the public's eyes obviously without great interest, and this is the first reading, probably should be given certain contributions. I'm sure a series of speakers before me said that lifting the office wasn't good, which is canceling the office. Of course he'll say no, he'll function within the ministry. It will not work within the ministry, in addition, it is exactly the opposite of what the European Parliament asked the government not to do. And nowhere in Europe does the government's body really do it because in itself it's when the government's body does the politicization of the victims, and everyone swears they don't want to politicize the victims. Therefore, it would be quite unnecessary if there were no other intentions, that this office should actually be abolished by drowning in the ministry and, in some ways, disappear. I'd go back to why that's actually happening. So we have a 2011 law. The 2011 law, I agree with the honourable representative of Rome, who said that the law was a civilizational step and indeed when it was adopted in March 2011 during the procedure, did not experience any changes, although it was offered to all parties of different political orientations, had no objections. At the vote for the law, representatives on the right and MPs on the left side of the SDP, except for one who was restrained and all happily accepted the law in 2011. It's been a year. What dramatically happened in these years that now suddenly it is claimed that this law is not good, that it needs to be changed and that one important part that was the contribution of this law is now to be changed. And I must confess, I was offered by distinguished representative Ivica Mandic when he said that both the left and right sides did not welcome the law well. So if that is the case, if we are representatives of the Croatian people, and neither of them are happy to welcome what we bring, for which we bring it, if neither side has welcomed it well, if that is true. I think it is not entirely true, however, because it is very clear that some actually want to stop with these researches that have been very successful, which have brought the first results and that is actually the reason why this is in some way wanted to disintegrate, which is why it wants to drown in a much wider context for which there is no reason to re-establish it, because of course, our debt to innocent victims is determined by our civilized European level of behavior. But according to these standards, each victim, and others pointed out this, deserves a marked grave. And when there's no incentive to punish the executioner, and that's an illusion, it's not going to happen, of course, but at least it would be fair and just to mark those graves. And this commission, that is, this office that has already done a lot, I'm afraid that drowning in the ministry is actually going to disintegrate and there will be nothing in the end of it. Therefore, if we want to be constructive and I think that we should be, not only criticise things, I think that by the second reading we should definitely change that law so that this office, in accordance with the end and European recommendations, is out of state bodies, that it is as independent as it was, and that it is financed from the state budget, of course, so that if we really want to, rather than just declaratively, it can guarantee the discovery, marking and maintenance of the graves of the victims of communist crimes after World War II, I stress, because many of them also mixed the military cemetery during the war and foreigners on the one hand, on the other side. It's not that at all, this office had a clear task, he started doing it very successfully, and I'm afraid it was also the reason he was going to disappear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16594	Thank you. Replica has a colleague, Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16595	Your Honor, this law has no intention of finding the culprits for the victims, and that is not the law's intensities. Intention is also the goal of this law to deignly mark any injured in World War II and the postwar period. When I was speaking in my statement, I was saying that the objections to this law come equally from both the left and the right which I believe is well affected because if they only came from one side, and on the other hand they wouldn't be balanced. These are remarks that relate more or less to these things that we are discussing here. I therefore believe that this law should continue to be developed in this spirit and that in the second reading we have one law that I would like to make by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16596	Replication response, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16597	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't say he was looking for the guilty or I had any illusion that the guilty would be punished or found, so that's what I finally said. But I repeat, if against one law they're supposed to be from all sides and then he's not a good law. It's hard for me to accept that, I guess we'd all be into that law. Because watch out, for the 2011 law, they were all or a vast majority here in this House. So it's logical to assume that most people then passed that law, and if it's true now that they have objections on one side and on the other, then I guess that's not so. However, the existing law I repeat by all or many parliamentary parties only a year ago did not politicise the victims, did not question the perpetrators of the crime, it left it to historians, politicians and limited itself solely to providing the victim's dignity as I think such a law should do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16598	Thank you. I would like to inform you in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure at 18.09 hours have expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes. Next in an individual debate, counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16599	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. Here I am, right at the beginning of the opening part, going to say why I'm against this kind of law. I object because this bill is contrary to the current law, and this is the very name of the law that is being amended. We Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II are amended by the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of World War II military cemetery and postwar period. This after-war obviously sounds mellow and maybe it's much better than communist crimes. The current law was good, it was passed almost unanimously in this House, it clearly determined the area of action, it had the resources, people and money needed. Similarly already seen, we heard today in the short history of this country, we had a commission in 1992 that was doing its job, but after the government of the left orientation led by the SDP, the commission's work is being shut down, these jobs are being transferred to the Ministry of Science, the task has been completed. No more revealing new sites, and possible witnesses who because of their age simply go to another world no longer exist. It is opposed to European resolutions and the Croatian Parliament Declaration because they speak only of communists, victims of communist terror. The victims of World War II and you yourself listed ministers have already been resolved by other laws. The abolition of the office is an explicit opposition to the European Parliament's views which explicitly requires that a body investigating communist crimes can be an integral part of political institutions. Possible witnesses do not want to share their knowledge publicly with political authorities, government members because they are similar, often politically abused, or nothing happens in such statements. It is said here that for the same money of the new office, and a lot of wider powers can be achieved the same result. I don't think that's possible. Other countries of Europe do not have similar institutions within the government and will certainly not share information and contacts with such a politicised body within the ministry. The government of the Republic of Croatia if it wanted to have control over the office could have done so through the Ministry of Defence and Justice and under the laws so far. However, the goal is to disable any effective activity in the area of detecting victims of communist crimes. And this bill will make it happen. How it's going to work in reality here, I'm going to try based on the provisions of this law and predict. I live in the municipality of Lopar which has islands in its composition, Goli Otok and St. Grgur. In this Dom Goli island is often mentioned mostly wrong. When a public worker, a politician, wishes to stay on the naked island because he has committed a grave sin or sinned against the laws of the Republic of Croatia. But I say wrong because today on the naked island and it's not gonna put it under quotes so bad. Why isn't it so bad? This is witnessed by tens of thousands of visitors who pass through the island during the season and can take a nice bath in the surrounding sea, can take a tour of the entire area of the island, can watch a film about the Goli Island prison, and finally get a good meal and drink on the sea and get a drink. To the ignorant visitor, one who comes to learn something will not be clear on that island if there is no guide. One will think that the appearance of buildings on that island is the result of possible collapses as a consequence of war or earthquakes or something else. But it's not like that. What exactly is a naked island? Some here compare it, as well as the public as Alcatraz. There are great differences, primarily in the nature of the works of the prisoners who were on the Gol island and Alcatraz, according to today's purpose of one and the other case, and not in my part of what they served in history. So something about the naked island itself. Until World War I, there was no settlement on Gol Island. That's when Austro-Hungarian builds the first prisoner camp from the eastern battlefield. After World War II during Yugoslavia, the first group of convicts came to Goli Island, more specifically being thrown out of the ship on the rocks on July 9th, 1949. A total of about 1200 people. It marked the beginning of the founding of the Golog Island as a strict prison i.e. slaves who were exclusively imprisoned political prisoners. How has prison been developed on the naked island in the last decades? From 1949 to 1956, it was a political prison in public portrayed as a prison for information to the Bureau, but according to previous studies, more than 95% of the prisoners were political non-insects, and only 5% of the people in the bureau. In 1956, the Tito-Khrushchev Agreement freed political prisoners. In 1971 the prisoners of Croatian Spring came to the island. In 1982 political prisoners from Kosovo came to Goli Island. In the early 1980s, at the end of the 1980s, Goli Island became a milder form of prison for other delinquents, and then a correctional home for younger minors. There are no physical features of graves on Golom Island, although it is estimated to be on the Golo Island between 1949 and '56. several thousand people were killed. However, the research done by Mr. Ivan Kosic as a prisoner and a member of the Ante Zemljak Goli Island association, which he described in his book Goli Otok the largest Tito concentration camp, speaks of 413 deaths. Today, more than 20 years after that prison has been abolished, there are more and more witnesses, books, documents and other media that talk about the naked island, so we have the following information. There were 16101 persons passing through Goli Island, of which 15173 men and 928 women. The graves at the time were excavated, and there are indications that the bones were transferred to the cemetery with common skeletons mostly in the city of Rijeka and Zagreb. What are the specificities of the Goli Island prison? During the period from 1949 to 1956, there was sufficient doubt on the island of Gol. The number of prisoners by nationality often did not depend on the number of individual nations in the former Yugoslavia. The most productive in translation was KOS, the Yugoslav People's Army's Counter Intelligence Service, which detained a total of 3592 people. Unlike civilians sent to the camp on the basis of an administrative decision, military personnel were tried by military courts on stage. All were sentenced to long-term sentences of at least three to twenty years in prison. The highest number of deaths was between 1949 and '52. In 1951, when 260 people lost their lives on the island. The entire naked UDBA reconstruction system was based on the fact that prisoners were forced to do evil to their rival and were stimulated in this direction. The vast majority of prisoners in prison have been arrested completely innocent and often young people. They were the most perfidious police methods brought to an unaccountable state that individuals were willing to do anything to facilitate their position. There are also a lot of stories about Peter's hole and the wire and the work in the quarry, inhumane conditions of life, beating, self-punishment and other methods. Perhaps the steam that is there today speaks best of the goal itself or the very way that the cassomat works, and that password reads: We are building the Goli Island, Goli Island is building us! I say, Goli Island is a lot more than ten minutes of debate. I think that this is a story that the ministry will obviously have to deal with under the new law, and that is why I call on you ministers to act on the basis of knowledge and written documents in accordance with Article 7 of this law that you proposed in the first reading will probably be adopted regardless of what I say the HDZ will be against such a law, to initiate the procedure and to properly mark it in cooperation with civil society and local self-government, and to finally create a purpose, not to be left to itself and to the possibilities of local self-government that has no jurisdiction over that same island. Namely, it is the only island that today has a finished cadastre, a new cadastre because the 1949 cadastrian books were burned, in which the Republic of Croatia was clearly registered one through one, all buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia and it is obvious that the same state is concerned about the island itself. I don't think that island deserves it, there's a lot of victims down there, there's no telling the features of any other than the government of the Republic of Croatia that set one record on the St. The Grgur and the Goli Island, there is no cemetery there and this is exactly the law I say that you are proposing to give the order to the local self-government that is very much asking that this issue be resolved, but the fact is that the state itself that owns everything on that island does nothing. The island has become an improvisation of individuals and possible use of tourism, however, it neither contributes to development nor to the pie we all talk about in this House. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16600	Thank you. Next in an individual debate, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16601	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's already a lot of hours and colleagues before me have made more or less uniformly all the remarks I would have had, but I have to be honest with you that two HDSSB colleagues are about as if they've prescribed my debate even though we haven't talked about it. But I'll start with each other, here's my colleague, Mandic, who gave me a creamworth, no emotion, no euphoria, to find someone who could possibly be a consensual solution. I ask the question why are we even getting into a situation to make emotions work, that is, why are some of the things we did a year ago and a little more days ago for which we've all established, that's why the synergy that was before us is definitely good, and we've confirmed that by more or less all of us raising our hands for it, why are we changing it? I still don't get it. We're saying upgrades, upgrades to something good? But what was wrong with what had been upgraded? Or did something just get lost so we said something was upgraded? Isn't that a question between us and the public, and isn't that what's going to be called the gentlest of emotions? I would perhaps call it a little rougher, I think it will again create some divisions among Croatian citizens. It is certain that we all agree that every victim, every person, so every man on the globe absolutely has the right to a dignified resting place, to a marked grave, and absolutely no one is against it. The question arises, and this is what I agree with my colleague Djurovic, is the Ministry of Defence perhaps the best address to solve, I am talking about World War II? Does the Ministry of Defense, so when they say at the Ministry of Defense correct me, I don't know if it's a different name, but if it's called the Ministry of Defense, people of the people of the people of the Croatian people of all the nations who created this country and thank God there are still many more alive, do they have to put a story in that story that happened I don't know 60 or more years ago? That's what I'm saying from the point of view is it good, is it also going to bring one sensitive population to an even more sensitive area where we're going to discuss again what it was and how it was, and should we even discuss it? Why are we simply not what we have found to be good let it continue to do this job that was set out in the way it was said and helped, so let it go as in all civilised Europe. I'm not going to say there's going to be a policy impact, but I'm saying in this very story we've already raised doubts. Why didn't we let it be a legal independent institution that would take care of that? The minister said we should close the story once and forget World War II. Whoever lost someone no matter how old he is today until in some way he determines where he is and can't plant a flower or light a candle for him World War II won't stop. And unfortunately, we have a story from the near past 20 years ago. For some people, the Homeland War will probably never end. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be, but I'm afraid it will. I'm not talking about a local self-government that's also going to get another one of those stones that's going to make her life in financial terms more difficult anyway, in the sense that she's going to have to maintain a cemetery, that she's going to have to worry, etc., etc. So let's try this first reading, let's try to think about it one more time and let things go the way we thought a year ago that nothing in our heads could change the best. Let's not let it happen again to us, Bleiburg, who was 10 years ago this House took patronage over Bleiburg, the government of the late Ivica Racan is if I'm not mistaken and brought it. There's no such thing today. And what are we doing? We're going back and forth all the time, and we're throwing some hot potatoes and fog at this public and we're giving them reason to think and go back into the past, and what's holding us back, what's called a job for mine, yours and all the other kids, it's always being put aside. So is this story. Here, we'll talk about this at 6:00 in the afternoon. It'll be uninteresting. I don't underestimate Afghanistan or anything else, but Afghanistan we could have absorbed here now at half seven in the way the mission was done, there's no loss. Report accepted, in one word. But it's probably more of a priority, and we had to put it in a better time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16602	Thank you. And the last one on this point is a single debate with a colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16603	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would start with one principled remark that applies not only to this law but in general to the practice of adopting the law, i.e. to vote the law, which is, in general, that what goes with the laws, amendments or additions to the law there is no analysis of the existing situation and reasons for the reasons why and why the laws are being passed. The second point that does not exist is who has accepted this law in the previous debate, with what observations, which have been adopted, which are not. And the third element which in this procedure, the practice of law-making does not exist is what expectations are and why this law is being passed, or what will change with certain laws. Since this is not the case then, we have a situation where, in the light of this particular law, the minister says he has no ideological problems, that he wants to end World War II and several such findings, which is to be trusted. But based on what? Is everything else that we on the other hand can think and believe just as it stands. If this were not to happen, namely if there was an analysis of who said what was adopted and what was to be achieved, these arguments would be far away, less space for personal judgments and attitudes. counterpart Mandic said we shouldn't give in to emotion, if I quote correctly, and there should be no defeaters and winners here. Look, I appreciate this as an opinion, but the problem with this attitude, with this one theory, that's one general point of view, one general theory of solving the crisis of solving problems, that all should be winners. And then, let me tell you, I'm not talking to you, about your interpretation, but about what's behind that theory where everyone says they should feel like winners, nobody like a loser. So, and then you have politicians all over the world, everyone's talking about wine's position. But when you look at the theoretical explanations of one's attitude, then there's something else, the explicits say, it's not stretching, but the explicits say the truth doesn't matter and justice doesn't matter. And now we come to this key problem here, what we have in this law, we're probably all in agreement, I think all the speakers said today, that it's not disputed that every victim has the right to dignity, to his grave. But the problem is in this second one, the problem is what the resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism says, which is that there is no reconciliation without truth and memory. And the problem is what my colleague Boris was saying, the problem is about the truth. Where are we gonna tell that truth, how are we gonna get to it? Let us take an example that can illustrate exactly the application of this law. You've got a wall of pain moved to Mirogo, you don't know who, who, what, when, how, or why. Is apart from the name, 14,000 names there are almost written, no years of birth, no years of death, no why and how it happened. That eradicating truth, that eradicating memory is the undoing of this very resolution on European conscience, totalitarianism and all other totalitarianisms regardless of what it is. We, too, are in danger, or doubtful, do not have to doubt good intentions, but we can assume that this law will also happen. That the truth would be avoided, that you were the days, the other day we celebrated the Day of Independence. Who of the official officials mentioned aggressor and aggression? The strongest formulation was painful, if I'm not mistaken, painful times or a painful period, where is the truth about war? Not to find the guilty. As agreed, it simply avoids the terminology in this, both in the Parliamentary Declaration and in the condemnation of totalitarian regimes and on these European, Council of Europe, these resolutions were adopted. Take an example from, I have some colleagues holding in college, and then the student says, talks about censorship, and says there was no censorship in the former Yugoslavia, he says. I'm asking how? He says it doesn't say anything. That's the problem with this law. These amendments, that this Office for the Finding, Marking, Maintaining of Graves, etc. As it's already called, except as an independent institution and put it in the ministry, it's pure politicisation. You can't convince us here that, especially when you say the law will deal, the focus is on research in the area, that now the ministry will become a research institute or an institution. No way, it can't be credible either to the domestic or to the foreign public. So it's an autogol that I don't think this coalition should stick to itself. And that's why, it would be more meaningful, more rational, it would be smarter if that office were to be independent, a clear matter of some jurisdiction, administratively when it comes to setting up a cemetery, etc. should, these research institutions do not have these administrative powers, should be transferred to the ministry in order to work it out, but cannot be left to the end. I don't think it's a good idea for him to stay, or transfer to the D.A.'s office. On the other hand, it is already said that the burden of these costs, from exhumation to these graves, cannot simply fall on someone who does not have the strength to do it financially, so if it is already being warned about it, and remains there, then we can only conclude that he deliberately wants things not to go away from the dead spot. And I think that the legislator, or proposer, should bring these amendments into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16604	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16605	Dear Comrade Tudjman, you are an example of how this debate, about this extremely complex topic in Parliament, has been tolerated. And all of these discussions so far talk about tolerance and then I don't understand it, and I think one of the most tolerated persons in Croatia is the defence minister. And I don't understand that tenacity to pass a law without consensus. We need to discuss this if it takes 6 months but it must not cause division in Croatia, do not allow it, Mr. Minister. As much as you think you're right, don't think the others are wrong. What's so few of us in the assembly is just talking about the conscience of those who left if this is an important topic to them. Let's not talk about it so some topics need an afternoon and I'm always bitter when it seems to me that maybe it's also good that this topic is at this time. But please talk again, have a public discussion, talk to the representatives' clubs, don't reject the comments, and don't make any new divisions, close that page once. All that stuff you said should leave history behind, but to leave history, you have to reach a political consensus. One more thing. Yes, and you're right about that, Mr. Tudjman, in the former South, and I've had my own experience since 1978 when I started working in the paper, there was censorship, and it was large, but it wasn't normally written anywhere in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16606	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16607	Thank you very much. Although I didn't realize I didn't mean the Minister of Democracy or democracy, I merely stated that the statements made by the minister would be far more convincing that it was all in the preparation of the law that I stated not to be listed. And how important the truth was simply because of one detail, a colleague... spoke about the Golo island, you know, that even on the ideological committee of the Central Committee of the Communists of Yugoslavia in '83, the more openly talked about victims and crimes, although with another terminology, because you have Colonel Vladimir Hlajic there at that session who was talking about the archives of the KNOJ, these are the units of national defenses that were formed in '43 just to remind those who may have forgotten the 8 divisions that fought during the NOB against the internal enemy, the 8 divisions. I will not enter how many people were killed then, but what Colonel Hlapic said at that exhibition from '45 to '47 killed 26 thousand 947 armed counter-revolutionaries. Who were they? You know that. Ranile 2 thousand 950, captured 86 thousand 31, and from '48 to '51. Killed or captured 35 thousand 846 armed Ustashas, crusaders etc. Today, we are not opening up any space here with this law of research of this truth as a assumption that we can normally discuss our past and our future, but actually, under the firm, we are trying to move forward to the future to forget the truth and what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16608	Another replica of counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16609	Thank you very much. Here I fully agree with Mr. Tudjman when he said that without facing the truth we would not have true... reconciliation. That's why I was talking in my debate about Gol Island because that's true, that's our fact. I live there and I know what it is. And as long as the state says it treats one such truth the way it's been going over the past 20 years, we're not ready for reconciliation. And in this word, the Prime Minister recently said to me that I am 39 years old, and that every year, not only has the last two ever since the Day of Totalitarian Victims was declared 23.8.mi as a HDZ party, we appear neatly, giving a pitet to those people who have lost their lives there, who have served their sentence there, and that no one from the official structures, say this year the Government has been there even though there are records that the government has set up and let's say we didn't have any connection with the crimes. And then we come to say in the theory of absurdity. And this Goli island wasn't the worst for the Croats. Now I'm going to tell you the information about who got the most hurt there. Most Serbs 7 thousand 76 members of Serbian nationality, Montenegrins 3 thousand 468, Croats 2 thousand 561, Slovenians 567, Albanians 431, Macedonians 801 left a thousand 197. So these are mostly victims from other areas of the Republic of the other former Yugoslavia, but they're in our space. We these people have to remember, we had to give away the pie. But no one does, and that's the worst we're allowed to do. And we have to change that. And that's why this sentence of Mr. Tudjman, until we face the truth of true reconciliation there won't be an example of it on the naked island. Because we on the other side have Brijuni as an island that gives a completely different picture of the rule of that time, and I say the island is one and the other or the island had a purpose. One to show nice, and the other to punish everything they thought was bad, and I think those people as political insinuators suffered in one brutal and no way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16610	No answer? Thank you very much. We also exhausted those who wanted to discuss for 10 minutes. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter, Defence Minister Mr Predrag Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16611	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm really very, very pleased and I'm showing my satisfaction to the level of debate that was here at the assembly tonight. Namely, the experience when I said whether there would be politicisation I draw from the public debate we had a few days ago in the Journalist House and where it just happened I can begin with what the esteemed representative Mandic said that neither of the others are satisfied with the law. In this regard, neither one of the others said that the law is not good, but it is precisely an ideological one where one side thinks that this law will now take care only of the victims of the other side, and the other side says, no, this law is set up to take care of only these victims. It just gives me the conclusion that the law is good because in that sense it is assumed and I am convinced that MP Mandic said that they are not both satisfied. I'm looking at what the remarks were, so I don't know where I'd start first, but here, that office doesn't stop, it doesn't cancel because it's a redecoration, it's about who's going to run and who's going to have control. I don't mean the wrong way to control the office. So that office is actually all the time in the D.A.'s office. I'm a young minister, not by age, but by internship, and believe me, it's not easy for me every month to sign what Honorable Professor Hebrang said when the Ministry says it has nothing to do with the office, it just gives special help. That special aid so far consisted of the first signature being to buy a jeep. When I asked them where you were going on the field, they said nowhere. They have 300 square meters of business space in Zagreb and they bought a jeep. I'll sign their wages later, journals. The administrative council that was appointed to be eight years old, allow yourself not a single Lukoshenko to do so, for every four years, even if the farce of the election, and these were named for eight years. So far I've paid them off, the Department of Defense, not out of my pocket, 335 000 kuna for some sessions, something they've been meeting. Here it is said on many occasions that these speakers who participated in the debate, the distinguished academic Reiner, that the office was doing well, that someone would do well, I suppose, have some results. That office doesn't have any results. It's been 10 months or 9 months running and nothing they've collected except some data already existing data from the MUP. And that reminds me of that one agency that I'm thinking about and in this home was being discussed, the agency that collects data from the ministries, puts it on the web site and then the ministries use their data. It's pretty much what that office does. But I repeat once again, and the honourable representative Đurovic and Mr Vinkovic, remain the same employees, remain the same members of the board of directors only now will they be in the commission, the commission is for those who love work, who do not pay them particularly for the sessions. Funding and what is most important, the distinguished representative Ivic, as former defence minister, knows that the administration for the imprisoned and missing, led by Colonel Grujic, is the only institution in the Republic of Croatia that performs operational excavations. He had something this year that I'm going to read you this sentence so I'm going to tell you what my fear and my fear of it is. The Office shall be financed from the division of the Ministry of Defence, and according to the rules of financial management and control on which a statement of fiscal responsibility is based, the Head of the Ministry shall be responsible for the legitimate, deliberate and purposeful use of the funds intended for the work of the Office, which in particular is ineligible because the Office for its work is not responsible for the Minister. You have in this law an unnatural definition in which special assistance is provided by the Ministry of Defence, and the supervision of the work is carried out by the Ministry of Justice, which means translated no one. And that's how it happens, the five of them sit there, no one knows what they're doing. So I said, the same employees can stay working, same members, same job, same job description. I'm going back to this when I said, so Colonel Grujic's office, he gets a warrant from the office to go do something and they pay him off his division. It's at Colonel Grujic's in one pocket, he takes it out of that pocket and puts it in another pocket because his operatives are going to dig. I think it's unnatural, and I'm afraid it's against the law. Some of the remarks that were made, I'd like to explain. Dear Representative Vinkovic said and stretched through all the debates they spoke. It's about maintaining a cemetery. So, the Defense Department will make all the shops, the access routes, the mention of the markings, that mention of the markings will not be monuments that will need something special to maintain, have a security service, or I don't know what anyone imagines about it. We will then determine by regulation, it will be a dignified but modest memory of the record. It's not a 100-hectare cemetery, it's a pillar that's going to stand on the record like I said in Article 12(2) where it's going to be determined what happened here and when, period. Next DORH, MUP, let them investigate, everyone here knows and my personal attitude towards war criminals from all wars is equal, war crime doesn't get old, and everyone has to answer for it. Time to end, then I can only say one more sentence. Thank Mr. Vuksic for what he said about my smallness. So once again, I'm not the classic type of politician, if it takes a year, we'll meet here in the same composition, and I'm willing to publicly apologize and swallow everything I said if that's the case. So also in the opening part, I said that the Prime Minister personally supported and praised this bill, which means I guarantee you that political pressure on the work of this department that will be within the Ministry of Defence will not be. I guarantee it. I'm not much of a guy in this country, but I'm not one to kill for the ministerial post, but I'm sure I'll sacrifice myself in honor. If there is political pressure to investigate communist crimes, any crimes I will resign and it will be my small and modest contribution that I was wrong and I will accept all the conventions that arise from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16612	Thank you very much, Minister. The Republic has Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16613	There is no reason to doubt the Minister's words that it will not be monumental monuments, that it will not be expensive maintenance, and since that, if so, it will not be a great pressure on the state budget. I ask you to think this through once more because I say that there are units of local self-government that are not Zagreb. For example. there between Đakov and Požega is Rushevo where there is a mark for the gunmen of the Domobran Army and Ustasha, which is financed exclusively from private pockets and which it maintains first and foremost I would say one poor municipality. But here's what I really think isn't here. During this whole debate, no politicization has been done, nor has it occurred to anyone. So here's my suggestion, however, that this second reading says that it is the Ministry, or the state budget from which all this is being financed, or it is an invitation for Minister Linic to change, or finally introduce a system of decentralisation fiscal. And here I would also ask you, given that here in Article 32, it is said that once during the calendar year, this commission to the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a report on the work of the past year, I think it would be good for the Croatian Parliament to also stand there. The commission that will work under this new law instead of the abolished office, therefore also submits to the Croatian Assembly a report not only to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because we believe that without politicising that such a broad debate, not a broad debate, but a report on the work of this commission must also be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16614	Replica response, Minister Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16615	Dear Representative Vinkovic, therefore, once again emphasises that the costs of the arrangement will be minimal, pardoning the costs of maintaining those grave sites to be found. The Ministry of Defense doesn't have the resources physically in the sense that it covers that maintenance. So we predict it if it's in one humble form. So it's about three squares of grass probably that needs to be cut around. But if that's the problem with some of the local self-government units, I'm convinced the Defense Department will find ways and resources to help these units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16616	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this bill when the conditions are met. We're finishing today's session. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we begin with item 8 of the agenda – Final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area. Thank you very much. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-10-0.u16617	Proposal for a Law on Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemetery of Victims of World War II, Postwar Period, First Reading, PZ No. 148. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a proposal for a Law on Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, a cemetery of victims of World War II, a post-war period is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please raise your hand so we can state who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Who is against the proposed conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most votes, 80 for, 34 against and 7 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion. Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. We begin work at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. We are going to debate - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 166 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Hrvoje Dokoza, Deputy Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection. Here you go, dear Croatia.
