ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2228	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I welcome you on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. I hope that we will work well together, for the benefit of all who attend the school system of Croatia, and of course on the well-being of science, because without the improvement of science there is no development of the economy because we want to have a knowledge-based economy. This ministry will submit all proposals to this Parliament in good faith that we will discuss them with just one unique goal, which is to improve education and science without any politicisation, since this is where everything really needs to rest on the basis of the profession. In that sense, today you have two laws that we propose. These laws are, in fact, the technical consequences resulting from the amendments to the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials. The first to appear before you is the Law on Amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. In fact, these amendments confirm what was said in the adoption of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, that articles that actually prescribe the interior structure of a ministry should not be placed in the law because then we are in a position to change the interior structure of the ministry that the law must be amended. So according to the old law, there was one commission, a commission made by the secretary of state, then the head of the Educational Inspection Board, which gave an opinion to the minister based on which the minister agreed to re-election of principals in primary and secondary schools. The amendments to the State Administration Act that I previously quoted were abolished by the directors, there was a change in the formation of the ministry, and therefore this commission itself ceased to exist. At the same time, between the periods since the establishment of the new government and the meeting of the Assembly, the process has been normally taking place in schools... the life and appointment of the director and the existence of an air-empty space in which no one had consent to the selection of those directors. [[You don't understand.]] For this reason, our ministry first proposed the regulation, but immediately wanting to settle matters by law and showing that this is not about any hidden intentions, we also propose this law which regulates the minister to agree on the basis of the commission he will appoint, but which is no longer regulated in the law. In this way we show that it is the interior matter of the ministry and that the possibility of granting consent will continue to be in a way that there is one expert group that will assess all appointments on the basis of which the minister will make a decision. Therefore, it will not be any decision that the minister will make on his own but will continue on the basis of an expert group that will appoint the basis of the Ministry's Internal Design Regulation. So it's a technical matter, and it's the regulation process and the billing today that shows our good faith. What I would like to announce to this occasion are the substantive changes that will come very quickly, which also concern the work of the school boards and the relations of the school boards with the founders and with the ministry and in particular the setting of criteria for the selection of directors. So practically, today there are almost no criteria based on which one can assess the success of the director's work in one term. We want to establish clear criteria, quantifiable criteria and the obligation to license directors to be forced in some way by directors to perfect themselves during their term of office to the well-being of the school they manage. I suggest you support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2229	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. Here you go, Agent Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2230	Good morning, everyone. Honorable MPs and MPs of the Parliament, President of the Parliament, Minister. So yesterday at its 1st session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, among other points, had these two points that are now on the agenda. ... A law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. [[You don't understand.]] The report you got on the bench so I wouldn't read the whole report, maybe the part about the proposed law. So, as the minister said, with the amendments to the Law on Education and Education, legislative provisions are proposed which no longer exist by the Secretary of State, the Director of Educational Inspection and the representative of the Ministry because there has been a change in such places, is changed in a way that the minister gives consent... on the basis of a potential commission by the Minister i.e. The Ministry can determine. [[You don't understand.]] The committee members supported those proposals in the debate by considering the changes primarily to the nomotechnical nature and the consequence of compliance with the regulations that have been amended in the meantime. They will, however, discuss the selection procedures or resolutions of school directors. The opinion of individual board members is that these changes are premature and that they do not contribute to the transparency of the selection of school directors themselves. On the basis of this item of the agenda, the Committee decided, by majority, that 8 votes for and by 3 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Assembly to pass the Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. This would be related to the position of the board, which, therefore, by 8 for, 3 against, proposes that the law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2231	Thank you very much. And now we're moving on to a debate, so I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2232	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Well, these changes are logical. Following an explanation by the minister that an internal body of the ministry will be designated by a working body that will actually take over the work of this commission. We will support this bill, amend the law. We don't see anything controversial about it. We contacted and took advantage of the opportunity in these few days and contacted to the extent possible and our election base to ask people what we can tell the Minister about these changes to the laws that are planned. What we've been asked to pass on to the public minister, so we're going to do it is one problem that people who work in the field have been facing for years. Someone who works as a teacher for 15 years or a school teacher. After 15 years she wanted to improve her development path, worked and worked indefinitely. Call the principal, get elected, stop working indefinitely, mandate for four years. If, after the term of office, he ceases not to be elected, he loses his job or, in the meantime, someone else is admitted to it. It's not such a rare case. So they're actually praying and I'm passing that request on to people to see if in any way these people can be statused inside that school in some way have their own development path, and then they're interrupted and they're actually losing their jobs. Is there any way that this problem can be dealt with legislatively? We also have cases, in educational processes there are many problems in various stages and in lower classes and upper classes, in high schools. I'd just like to take a quick look at the lower grade of elementary school. The intensity and desire of all of us to have children in lower grades of primary school attend classes if possible only in the morning tour. In many schools, unfortunately, there is still a lower-class school in both the morning and afternoon tours. But we have cases, and we don’t think that’s necessary, and that’s what we should react to. So we invite you to attend all four classes of elementary school only in the afternoon tour. For example, in my county schools in Kaptol and Trenko's first four-grade primary school students attend only during the afternoon tours. There parents and children practically got chess mat because it makes it convenient for those who arrange the schedule in those schools. Here, otherwise we were afraid that the minister would not completely abolish any commission so that he himself was actually burdened with communication with 2700 primary and secondary schools. But since the interior of the ministry will form a commission, that is fine and we will support these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2233	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Mr. Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2234	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal, of course, is in line with the new circumstances in view of the other rules that have been adopted. When you talk to people on the ground, then you get information that it's actually about bringing things into line with the real situation, because these commissions are mostly never even alive or actually working. However, this proposal, and I am pleased to mention that, in its opening statement, there is at least a few topics that we in the HNS consider extremely important, which is the question of those unhappy or happy or whatever the school boards consider. When you look at legislation and practice in the field of school boards, then it is quite clear that we are in fact still looking for each other, that we did not ultimately decide what they, which is their composition, what their role is and what their function should be in the process of education and in the process of managing educational institutions. Since 2001, the composition of the school boards has been changed four times. At this point, it consists of seven members. 2 are teachers, 1 is a school employee, 3 are a founder's representative and 1 is a parent's representative. It has very broad powers – appoints and resolves the Director, gives prior consent to the establishment of a working relationship in the school institution, brings the Statute and other general acts. This is, for example, an ethical code, a home order, a school curricula, an annual plan, a financial plan, a decision on the demands of workers to protect their rights, suggests a change of activity and other decisions relating to founding rights, etc. etc. This list of powers shows that the school boards require a very wide range of knowledge, expertise and that in these powers they are asked for, in fact, one mix of knowledge and needs stemming from the very educational process, knowledge and needs resulting from the governance process, administration, accounting. So, all of what's actually listed as power. And in that situation, actually, then your choice of members becomes a pure lottery. Then you don't really know what the skills of the members will be, the interests of the end of those members, and in these very broad powers you don't really have any way to control the whole story so that it works and make sure it works in the sense that it should work in view of these very broad powers of the school boards. What happens most often then is that school boards simply serve as voting machines that directors cannot make on their own. Right now, the selection of directors is also the most important function of the school boards. However, the independence of the school boards and in this function and in all other jobs is very questionable, as directors usually sit at these sessions. That's the first problem. The other problem is that you have three representatives of the school staff and one representative of the parents on the school boards. And in fact, four out of seven members are kind of natural. That's not why they need to be accused or convicted. So it's simple. They are naturally in a situation where they have an automatic problem in any case where they have to enter any kind of conflict or debate with the principal because a parent's representative of course has a child in that school and you all know that it's something, a situation in which a person is very rarely willing to engage in any kind of conflict against the potential harm of his or her own child, and employees, of course, don't need to explain at all why they are uncomfortable in conflicts with the directors. On the other hand, the founders are also most often dissatisfied. When you talk to representatives of units of local and regional self-government that are founders they are also dissatisfied, they feel they can't implement anything, to block it, to have an impact on the institution they are founders, which they finance and for which they ultimately correspond is very small. So it's one of those situations where everyone's actually kind of unhappy. And the question of the school boards is, in any case, one serious issue that needs to be seriously analysed and seriously regulated. However, what is actually the main message of this first lecture on education and science, and I am glad that Mr. Minister is here and Madam Deputy Minister, is that we in the HNS have huge expectations from you and your ministry. We expect you to regularly send content proposals that regulate the overall process of education in the Republic of Croatia. We, in analysis and redefined education, must also touch what is being learned and we must slowly move from the concept of a ton of information to the concept of skills. So, the skills of finding information, critical analysis of information, the use of information, the presentation of their own position in writing or verbally, rhetoric, debates, foreign languages, teamwork, everything that really today in today's society must be the skills that young people have, and unfortunately our education system doesn't teach them enough of these skills, and on the other hand it burdens them with a bunch of information that tomorrow is already a question of whether it will even be valid. On the other hand, we need to look at that and we need to analyze how learning is done, what methods are applied, whether our teachers and teachers have knowledge and whether they use the most modern methods in education, whether they use the most modern tools, whether they have the latest information. We also need to see what the material base of our schooling is. We have to turn around and move on in one shift. So that's where you need to see, find funding models, schools have to work in one shift. We can't have the situation of having two shifts, let alone three shifts as many of our schools still have. This law is called the Law on Education and Education, and I don't think it's by any chance that education comes first. One-way classes provide that opportunity for students under the supervision of their teachers to write their assignments and learn what they did not learn during teaching but are expected to learn as something they make at home, but that is exactly the same area for education, for cooperation, for extracurricular activities that develop all these skills that I have spoken about and that are unusually important to people in the modern world in which we live. And the last thing, but certainly not the least important thing that we need to analyze and redefine is the status of our teachers, their salaries, their working conditions, their ability, but also the obligation to be permanently educated, to permanently have access to the latest methods, the latest information to practice their work. They can't finish their education the moment they start working at school, it has to be permanent, it has to happen all the time. Do they have access to expert literature, magazines? These are all questions that remain irresponsible and I really expect, dear Madam Deputy Minister, that your ministry will regularly propose laws and other regulations concerning these and other issues that I have raised in this House. Of course we will support this bill, there is no dispute about it. But we expect an active and much debate on education issues here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2235	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2236	Dear President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club absolutely accepts this bill, simply the predecessors explained, I wouldn't keep it very much in line with the existing laws that we have passed not so long ago, I would refer only to some problems in Croatian education that we will certainly talk much more about in the future. For the start of this proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, perhaps a little more this House and the Government should work to consider that education and education starts already in preschools and that preschool education is not equally solved in all regions and all cities in the Republic, and we know that we are all equal before the Constitution although some think that we are not. Furthermore, I would like to point out some problems in Croatian education that we seriously need to talk about, which is Croatian HNOS, which is insufficient information, these are some problems with the E-matrix. I know the government is working on it, but first of all, a colleague from the HNS was talking about the role of the school board, so I wouldn't be there, so I'm sure there's going to be one broad discussion about it. I absolutely agree, and I advocate that this role must be changed, but we will not now, I would not now, but I would just say what may be most important that a contented student is in principle the consequence of a satisfied teacher. Unfortunately, we have dissatisfied teachers in the chambers in Croatia, mostly dissatisfied. I come from Slavonia, and I know I do. We have to make a pledge to return to the integrity of the profession not only as declaratively as it was in the previous eight years, but to actually do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2237	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2238	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Sports, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll go a little differently in my debate. Namely, my predecessors, who spoke on behalf of their HDSSB, HNS and SDP clubs, set off as if nothing had happened in education these years. Which isn't true. I must remind you, and you will allow me this because there are really many new colleagues who may not have been in their professional career in education, I must remind you that a number of documents have been brought to this day by the Ministry to improve the quality of education. Today's Deputy Minister Mrs. Lugaric and I have been in the Education Committee for 8 years and have made such decisions together. I have to take this opportunity to say that a whole series of reform processes have been launched in education since the introduction of a national educational standard into primary school, which my colleague mentioned to the introduction of a state pedagogical standard, the introduction of a state degree, the introduction of national exams to ensure the uniformity of the educational achievements of students, and also to improve the quality of work in secondary schools. By the time vocational education develops, we need to know that 70% of high school students are involved in professional education right up to the introduction of lifelong learning, this is just a small series of problems that have been tried to solve in the previous period of education. Certainly, we are not fully satisfied with what is happening primarily to educational workers, but the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools has seen a number of changes. A few changes in the past, but why? Because we just wanted to develop this basic law on elementary and high school that regulates the work of a school, from the rights of students, parents, teachers to school management. By discussing above all, in the previous term of this law, everyone in this section relating to the management of the school institution, above all to the selection of directors, we advocated the depolitisation of schools, because we thought that education in its internal structure, in our activities, did not suffer political interference, and we were all unique and opposition to then and government. That is why we have been trying to arrange the appointment of a director appointed by the school board, with the previous consent of the minister and who gets an opinion from a certain committee, we have included in this Act a commission composed of the Secretary of State, by the Director of Inspect and Director of Administration. The fact is, and we've been testifying to this for the last two days because of changes in the formation of ministries, in agencies, we're changing seemingly nomotechnics or some kind of technical cuts we're doing in laws. But the minister himself noted today that he was in a hurry because some of the procedures and appointments of the directors were under way, brought the regulation on January 12th. What we can agree on, the system cannot stop. Because we need to know that if the minister does not confirm within 15 days and does not give his consent to the appointment of the principal, the school board is deemed to have obtained consent and this positive consent to the appointment. It opened the possibility of blocking the system, but it was therefore adopted on January 12th, a few days ago by a regulation against which we would have nothing if it had not already been in the proposal for a new law from the foundation changed by justifying this change in the formation of the ministry and thrown out unchangedly, but by an outcast committee which gives the minister an opinion on consent to the appointment of the director. The minister himself told the Education Committee yesterday that he did not decide for himself but that he appointed from the circle of his staff in the ministry commission, it is normal that the minister cannot possibly be 50 or 20 who come in the package to confirm the director of anything he knows, that someone needs to change it. Well, when that's the case, why doesn't it still remain legally regulated? Let the law state the previous opinion that the commission is and I would not agree that in changing every law, the interior structure of the ministry, I apologize, we must amend the law. Because if we keep this committee institution appointed by the minister or can be replaced by those people who are in the new formation of the ministry, so there remains one control link that will still give their opinion, which will be transparent, we as representatives of the public will know that the committee giving an opinion is made up of some people. So dear colleagues that we think that what they say in the people is this change that you justify with the new formation of the ministry, you want to actually reintroduce the policy to a small door. I also agree with those colleagues who have said that the work of the school boards has been questioned, but after years of experience and directors and head of education in Sisak-Moslavina County I can tell you, neither parents nor employees, and with many school boards I have worked, it is not those who are problematic in the work of the school board, do you know who is problematic, those three members most often appointed by the founders. And we gave the founders that opportunity because of another problem. Because all my dear colleagues are in favor of decentralisation. Let's not talk about decentralisation when it suits us, let's decentralise not only finance but also powers, by giving powers to the founder we three people have given great powers in the work of the school board which can significantly affect the work of the school board and even evaluate, those people, agree with a colleague from the HNS who has even said whose structure is important, professional structure, evaluates the education system and, above all, what is run by the school director. Because of what I said to the Croatian Democratic Community, the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2239	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2240	I just wanted to correct this claim to a respected colleague that I was saying that nothing has been done lately, I've made an effort to make my debate constructive and not go that way to criticise anyone before. But while you're already pulling my tongue, I agree that a terrible lot has been done, most of it unfortunately is bad, and I hope that in the coming time, we'll make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2241	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2242	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister. Here is otherwise any support to this law that the minister in these circumstances, when elected directors have to have the opportunity to solve this problem as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. Why should we even doubt if there was no need for anything that has happened so far, that it is doubtful because the debate in this House is actually big and on committees. But I would like to look back and put an emphasis on one point, and this has now been mentioned slightly in previous discussions and re-connected to school committees that have the role of monitoring the entire management of primary and secondary schools. In this context, the local self-government unit and local self-government units do not appear as founders. Well, I would now say that those who are founders of schools are actually county. In fact, it's been happening all its life in local self-government units, you know, so in municipalities and cities. Well, we can fix that context a little bit because especially in those cities that don't have big city status. There it may eventually appear that the cities are founders of elementary schools, but they may be two, three, four or five cities. But the problem that arises in the functioning of these schools has just been directed towards local self-government units. Citizens, people whose children attend school there, they always go first and only to those who cannot help directly because they do not have the authority to do so. It is my opinion that units of local self-government must have the right to participate in school committees, must appear as founders, and I hope that this will happen in financial and, of course, organisational decentralisation. It's just like I said about living space and interests. I know because I worked on one of the school boards, and I also know because I also talked to those who represented the Board of Parents and the Teachers' Council, and also the Working Council, and I also talked to them in that context and with existing founders who had no ear to present the unit of local self-government on behalf of the founder. So I think we should sort this out in some way. In particular, it should be pointed out that the quality of education has happened where it improves. I'm not talking structurally now, but in the construction of schools and the capacity of schools. In tours or shifts that take place in a particular school, and I'm not going to talk at all about introducing a school network. It's not that there's nothing to do, but of course every support for this law because we have to go from somewhere and not only that, of course, is the selection of directors, and I hope that there will soon be some kind of regulation that will solve the school boards right now, so here's that trail of thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2243	Thank you, Mr. Representative. You will now be corrected by Ms. Ivanka Roksandić correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2244	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not gonna be tough because I felt like you meant it. I just wanted to say to my colleagues, you said that the founders of the school are mostly county. The founders of high schools are counties, they cannot be units of local self-government, cities and municipalities. Founders of primary schools can be counties and cities and municipalities that are able to care for their schools with their financial strength. All I'm saying is that what you said about decentralisation needs to be done. There's decentralisation just on the trail of what you just said. Those schools, those cities and those municipalities that have the financial possibility of maintaining their schools have been granted founding rights. The ones who haven't won, and you know why? To make it as equal as possible for the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2245	Thank you. That's what you see now, just to tell you, Mr. Representative Rilje first put in when you started saying correcting an incorrect quote, now puts a replica, and neither can. So I'm asking if it's possible that we're already getting used to the fact that the less we use the correction of an incorrect quote, the more replica. Only my appeal, so you're right, and whoever stuck to it stuck to it and who didn't, of course. What? Well, you'll probably vote on that, too. It'll be almost on the agenda. Thank you very much. Mr. Veljko Kajtazi's representative came forward for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2246	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The topic of today's discussion of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, this law regulates a part of a wider area of education that I personally consider to be extremely important when it comes to Roma and the Roma community. I would like to highlight Article 4 second paragraph, point 1. Primary schooling is mandatory for all students of the Republic of Croatia. If it's mandatory for all students, how come some Roma children don't attend primary school, which is age. I mean, specifically, what are these mechanisms that don't move in that. One of these is when an unromantic child doesn't show up at school then all institutions, directors, educators, social worker and everyone else appear, and when it comes to a Roma child, then nothing is done and it's still said that it's a tradition that they don't have to go to school. Furthermore, often Roma parents cannot bear the burden of schooling children financially, and later there is also enrolment in various popular universities under the national Roma programme that follows. That college folk knows well that they're not being funded and so those kids... are in it. I would like to mention that within summer schools for children and members of the Roma national minority, this is the only way they could work on it. I think when it comes to those summer schools of ours, they don't care enough about it. I would mention when it comes to language, I would also mention the Roma language day initiative. With the first date... Croatian dictionaries where I was the author of this dictionary think that in this House there was an initiative to recognise that day but it did not come to this, given that my colleague was in some way holding back. [[You don't understand.]] I hope that this year there will be recognition and that it will come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. Article 33 is amended as follows: In paragraph 1, the school is obliged to organise supplementary teaching for students who need it. Organizing extended stay and other forms of additional teaching for Roma children who need it. One of the measures is also the National Roma Programme. The purpose of extended stay and additional teaching is to provide conditions for writing homework and learning to Roma children who do not have adequate insights in their own home where they also provide additional watches in Croatian. Keep going. Article 36(1), the student may be involved in extracurricular activities. How is it that a Roma child is involved in extracurricular activities when a bus driving to school he also returns the same bus to the children. So those children who are a few miles away from school cannot in any way get involved in these beyond the activities of course they would like. Article 55 states that each school has a library and that it is a library part of the educational process. If the booklet is part of the educational process it would be logical that in the books of schools attending a larger number of Roma children there are... in the Roma language, which so far, when it comes to the publication of Roma books, was in some way impossible or little was financed. [[You don't understand.]] Article 65, students with developmental difficulties. I can give you a specific example. A child who did not know enough Croatian language and went to class with a special program where later this year came quite different because it proved to be a great student, but he remained in the same class. In Article 68, it is about school nutrition. I will again mention the National Programme for Roma that provides for food insurance at school during teaching and extended stay for Roma children of weaker property. However, this measure does not come true and I find it difficult to see a child who is more hours in school and is hungry, and he cannot eat in a school cafeteria with other children eating lunch because his parents cannot afford it. I would also mention Article 69(1) and (2). The founder is obliged to organise the transport of pupils from 1st to 4th grade who have the address of dwellings away from school at least 3 km away. The founder is obliged to organise the carriage of students from 5th to 8th grade who have the address of dwellings away from school at least 5 km away. In the place... in Sisak-Moslavina County, there is no secured transportation of students, although their village is more than 3 km from school. [[You don't understand.]] So the law doesn't apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2247	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Walter Boluncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2248	Thank you. So as we have heard, we have one bill of law, with the debate going on in a very wide topic of education, education and science. I think all this is necessary, so the position that our education has to be promoted every day and if the laws change should be in line with the needs of modern society, starting with the number of teachers on the number of students, etc. However, I would perhaps concentrate here on this bill because it is therefore said that with this bill transparency is kind of abolished, that all powers are given into the hands of the minister. What's very important to me here, what was heard on the board yesterday is that the school boards are here as very important in selecting a director. According to the new law, it is the school boards who choose the principal by their statutes and regulations, and the minister gives confirmation. In the old law, the minister gave the same confirmation, with just one more inter-institution, it was this committee of three members. The minister cannot appoint a director who was not appointed by the school board so that the basic issue of work transparency is nevertheless related to the level of the school board. We can talk about the structure of the school board about what part is represented by workers, as someone said the fact is that if you have workers that they might be considerate of the former director who is running or therefore representing parents. But in this way, if we find it problematic that we have on the school board and the members who appoints, then whether local self-government which is the founder of basic schools, counties, secondary schools, but in this way we can also look at all the administrative councils of cultural institutions and supervisory committees because they are somehow named from that part everywhere. So I also believe that there is no injured transparency in this way, the school board is still the one who chooses the director on the basis of the invitation, and so far there has been a very large number of cases so that the elected director of the ministry is not shown within 15 days, which is therefore a confirmation of the election of that director. So I don't see any problem with the fact that the minister will now possibly, with the appointment of a committee, which should not then go into a change of law, make a decision on the acceptance or non-acceptation of the so-called director. Furthermore, if he has some problems and remains an article that says that the Educational Inspection may have objections, the Director may be replaced if something is not done. So in my view, I think the selection of the principal is still an important point in choosing the principal is the vote, or the position of the school board that does not change this. The minister is here to confirm or not. I also agree with the debate, since we had this yesterday and on the board, with the debate of an esteemed colleague. One of the proposals is that perhaps the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, together with the Committee on National Minorities, has one thematic session on the situation of so-called languages and all other matters concerning national minorities, which are obviously from this example, that this needs to be addressed as well as possible for the education of all inhabitants of Croatia. And I also support the fact that there are certain debates in the future regarding the status of education and science in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2249	Thank you, too. Ms. Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's when it comes to education and education, I think it's an emphasis that should be put on education and education, and that it should be adequate to have protection for children, for teachers, for teachers. We know now that it's not like that. We know that education is very bad in schools. You have an elementary school of 7th grade students who tell the teacher that she's a cow, that she's gonna screw with him, that she's gonna bother him, that she knows who his father is. So that child goes unpunished. You've got a second-class economic high school where a student rolls a joint in front of everyone. Says the teacher needs to go to the bathroom, go outside, and we know what he was doing out there. Nothing's happening either. We have children who expose themselves... No one's responding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those kids don't want to learn, they don't want to go to school, their life is hell through school. A lot of attention doesn't pay much attention to that. So all of this affects these kids as they learn, whether they learn. There are teachers who have, where they have very bad children and fear the parents of these children. And then the kid goes from class to class, let's just get through, get rid of him. The kid finishes elementary school, can't read, can't write. It also happens especially in small places where high school, where everyone knows each other. So, I hope that one day you'll be discussing this, that you'll be debated in a way that these children are protected from... that parents, that actually teachers and teachers can protect themselves so that they can do their duty in the right way, that they don't fear for their jobs, that they're not afraid for their lives, that they're not afraid of being beaten and that they're being covered up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe you all know the information that happened, you know what happened, and I say again, they're looking to get rid of these kids as soon as possible. And when those kids finish high school, you know very well that those kids can barely read or write. They say that's why there's one joke. He says he's asking a friend of a friend if you know what's free and bad. He says what's the difference between free and bad. He says I have no idea, he says, so it went to elementary school for free, and you went bad. So, I know kids who were in the fourth, fifth grade prosperous, loved school, had extracurricular activities, really looked forward to it. Then after the bulling, after the teachers didn't protect them, the children lost their will and desire for school. I know teachers who can't wait to retire because they're not given adequate protection. I know teachers who were pushed, beaten, beaten, threatened by their parents. So let's go first to be us, to protect these people, to make them work in ideal circumstances or close to ideal circumstances, to do exactly what they're supposed to do, to raise children, to educate those children. Similarly, education is a very poor education in primary schools regarding drug abuse. Because I have these classes and then I'm talking to the kids. Many of them have no idea what's going on, and we now know that there are about 36 synthetic drugs that have come from the European Union. The kids don't even know about it, and we know that some of these drugs first use can destroy some brain cells. So let's turn to what we really want. So education and education, and in an adequate way, we'll achieve something. But this way we kill a cow for one steak and it looks like something we're doing won't help much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2251	Thank you, too. Mr. Representative Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2252	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, since this debate has spread from that basic topic, which is to allow the minister to appoint, in fact to confirm the appointment of the principal chosen by the school board without a commission no longer exists, and let me say a few short hints about the only educational system. Our education system is a large system and it of course has its advantages and disadvantages. Here's what I'm going to start with, just some of the advantages this system has. The greatest advantage of every system, even this system, is the people it has. We have a large number of teachers doing their job very professionally. We also have auxiliary technical staff of janitors, cleaners, maids, cooks. So, all these people are on the same mission to help our children in order to enable their better quality education. What we miss about schools, especially in small schools where I worked, are professional associates. So we don't have enough psychologists, we don't have enough educators, so oftentimes fellow teachers deal with problems that aren't competent enough. I'm sure they'll have to work on that in the future. Some of the good things that should be mentioned here is the introduction of an e-matrix. Except for the e-matrix to enter the reviews by digital means. In addition to the e-matics, the system of education of teachers on information sciences was implemented, ECDL system. Through this system, many teachers, especially those teachers who had been educated in the information sense prior to retirement. This helped them to spend their retirement days with these technologies later and in some ways empty their spare time. This is where your colleague mentioned the work of schools in one shift. We've brought a naturally pedagogical standard. But it is very important in the pedagogical standard that we embody the goals we want to achieve, that it does not happen to us, and that I think that Mršić had a situation that he designed the school according to the pedagogical standard and that he was later asked when the project was completed, and who actually prescribed these conditions, so who will finance it. So, the work of the students certainly on one shift, because we have so many different situations in the Republic of Croatia today that some schools have a smart record, and some schools that we paintly say still splits three times to order fire for their students. And now just to mention school management, that's what this was all about. We have a school board that today, and that's said here already has a 3+3+1 composition. 3 from the order of teachers and employees of the school, 3 chooses the founder actually appoints, and 1 from the representative... So system 3+3+1. 3 from the order of teachers and staff, 3 from the order appointed by the founder. County and one representative of the Board of Parents. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder: microphone.]] It might be a good idea to have four members who, by the way, appoint the founder of one of the parent council that all four suggest parent councils. Because who's interested in the good functioning of the school than parents. On the other hand, the introduction of parents into the school board and the responsibility for school would prevent you from having absurd cases today that educational inspection is called anonymously and most often parents who have abandoned their child's education. You have a case to create unnecessary tensions at school. The educational inspection is coming and we don't really know where the beginning is, where the end of that work is. Teachers normally work very hard in pedagogical documentation to record all the activities they perform, all the problems they encounter. But when someone anonymously calls for an educational inspection, he has no obligation to deliver the same documents to an educational inspection. What I'd like to ask is, of course, there's a deputy minister here, maybe I'd like that psychosis about the number of students in small schools, 150 students is some kind of threshold. People are pretty worried because they're afraid their school's gonna take them away. When I say taken away they think the school will stay, that it will join a larger school as a regional school. Schools are regularly owned by all cultural events in smaller municipalities and should be more careful there. And as for the election of directors, I'm sure there's always been a situation so far that the election of the director of politics has interfered. We can close our eyes over it, but that's the way it is. And in my county, that's the way it is. How are we going to prevent that? You should see good legal solutions, I say maybe this proposal about the school board itself wouldn't be bad. Now let me tell a story like my colleague Tomasic. So it's like this, some principals come in with a connection and some bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2253	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Don Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2254	I would say, on this whole bill of law and amendment, that I'm afraid there was little time to record the situation and that it was necessary to record the situation well in education and education. Secondly, education of educators is needed in Croatia. Not all problems in children, how many problems there are with teachers, teachers, creditors, and parents. So, education of educators, and I think we should have a certain education in the Croatian Parliament as well. Me and the rest of you. This way, by passing laws on speed, I am afraid that it will be more fire-fighting measures, not rooting the changes that are needed in this sector of our society. Without order, work, discipline and responsibility, we won't be able to move forward. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2255	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2256	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. As one famous singer, and I have to mention it so he wouldn't have to pay for intellectual property, which is a beautiful and sunny day today. It's Neno Belan. We're passing the law by an emergency procedure that doesn't change anything. Since the commission will be appointed by a sublegal act, and the minister will sign the appointment within 15 days or after this has been the case so far, the school boards and the composition of the school boards are not changed by this law, which is the essence of this law. However, since many have not stuck to the topic so far, and today is a really nice and sunny day, and the responsibility of this ministry is sports, so I'm going to talk a little bit about this sport, but I'm not talking about HNS here, not about the political party, but I'm thinking about the Croatian Football Federation. I won't talk about bribing judges, Vlatko Markovic, Srebric, Hajduk, Dinam, etc., I'll talk about the handball. About the handball where we are here in a neighboring friendly country is held by the European Championship and where many of our fans are going to Croatian team games because of the proximity. And then there was such an unsettling event where their property and they themselves were beaten, the property was broken, and unfortunately the minister's competent ministry and neither the government of the Republic of Croatia nor the president of the Republic of Croatia even told A about the fact. I remind the only one who is at this point, and we didn't want on behalf of the HDSSB club to support this law, we didn't want to ask for a break and interrupt the Assembly session just because we didn't have those 10 minutes of walking down the hall, so here's what we're doing is we're using our right to talk about this problem as well. The only one who apologized was the mayor of New Sad, good for him. However, none of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia leading this country have found it appropriate to address
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2257	I'm sorry to interrupt, sir. That's not true. Minister Jovanovic reacted, but you didn't even read it. But please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2258	When? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2259	You're not, obviously you're not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2260	I don't know if he reacted, I didn't get that, but let me finish. But on the other hand, aside from the mentioned mayor of Novi Sad, no one found it appropriate to apologize to Croatian citizens who experienced the inconvenience here at the threshold of EU entry. Neither did their foreign minister apologize, nor did their minister of sports or sports apologize, I don't know what it's said there, but neither did the president of the country with whom we have a little bit of love and association. On the other hand, if it had happened in the Republic of Croatia, if it had happened at some championship, and we have a championship in small football, also the European Championship, all the media would have been talking about it. For this reason, I ask that all the competent institutions ask for an emergency investigation, regardless of which Serbian police have arrested innocent and weak hooligans on the other side of the Danube, ask that this case be examined and that all institutions make sure that these citizens are also likely to go to the semifinals with the Serb handball team, where it is expected that more savagery is safe and greater than what happened now when we played with France, I ask that both the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, and to God and the minister of sports make public announcements about it and stand in the protection of all those who will go to Belgrade for the semifinals with Serbia. I'm going to be back for a while because I still have time for this... I didn't go anything, I'm always in a straight movement, always ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not going left or right, but I'm going to go back a little bit to this law. Therefore, this Law once again does not change anything important, so the HDSB Club will support it, however, the situation in the entire school must be changed and I agree with certain MPs who have said that it is also necessary to carry out a certain type of decentralisation but not in a way that makes it necessary for units of local self-government to make financial commitments but in this way to do fiscal decentralisation. And I'll end up as I did, today it's a beautiful and sunny day and let it be in Belgrade, I have no doubt that Croatia will beat Serbia in handball, but let's all make sure that all those who go to that game can be alive, happy, whole with their cars or buses back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2261	Thank you very much. It would be good, Mr. Representative, if you were as informed as Mrs. Vice President Kosor reminded me. I said the Ministry of Education strongly intervened, Mr. Jovanovic, but the protest was tabled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I don't know why you said it when it was simply not true. But a correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2262	I'd like to say that I was supposed to be at that game by the invitation of the chief of the Bač municipality who hosted some Vukovars and who apologized after the match to the Vukovars and correcting that no one reacted to your allegations except the mayor of Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2263	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ana Komaraić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2264	The Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues, as our colleague actually based his entire debate in a completely wrong direction, did not stick to the subject, but I really wanted to correct a part of which you had already corrected. In his discussion, he said that none of the competent institutions had responded, so I just want to read a quote: Croatian Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr Zeljko Jovanovic condemned the attack on Croatian fans in Novi Sad and stressed that he expects the competent services of the Republic of Serbia to quickly and effectively investigate the attackers against Croatian fans. So if you had just read today’s newspaper, you would have known that the services were responding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2265	Thank you very much. Teacher Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2266	Mr. President, as our intervened ministers, the agencies cancel their trip to the fans in Belgrade, it is such a fierce intervention of our government and our competent ministry, and the president of the Croatian Handball Union publicly recommends that no one attends the match in Belgrade. Here's so much for the interventions of our government and our minister when it comes to handball.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2267	I'm asking you nicely, we discussed this a little while ago, this isn't the subject of the law, but we're clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2268	I have the right to debate, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2269	Yeah, but not beyond the subject, but we've cleared it up now. I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2270	I'm sticking to a great subject. Furthermore, when we speak not of the handball but of this technical law which changes the composition of the commission and depending on the name of the State Secretary or of the Deputy Minister or of some other members of the Ministry, it is actually an ordinary technical law that many of the partners here discussed also about schools from Korčula until I don't know which county. NO, it is fully known to you and those who previously had executive authority on the formation of school boards, the way they are formed, the pure policy plays its own game and its role in the county and in the cities that also have who are founders or founders of primary schools and districts of secondary schools. Therefore, it is again a centralisation and a concentration of powers in the commission that will assist and propose to the Minister the appointment of the Director. Clearly, as someone said yesterday, it seems to me that fellow Stazic, the people gave us confidence, so we will appoint both the commission and decide, clearly through the final signature of the minister about the director, which is to say in some ways how it was before and will continue. But when it comes to what has been said more today than this technical law, then Stjepan Radić said in 1904 that our schools, Croatian schools, should not only be educational institutions but first of all educational institutions. This is the role of the school for which I, ma'am, is not the State Secretary, Deputy Minister, and according to your discussions in the former VI. I look forward to a major breakthrough in life, and we will support every effort you make in this direction. In any case, except for the schools as said by my esteemed denominator Don Ivan and the family as an educator, and it would be worth finding educators, not only those who are employed in schools of pedagogosis and all others, but even parents to educate in this sense so that this segment, not only education and learning but rather education, has achieved this degree so that we do not have incidents to beat teachers, teachers, it we all know that it is happening but some sanctions that were before when I was getting pucks on hand, these sanctions are no longer, saying that it is not pedagogical but I hope that through this, which we are in this debate today, but also what you were saying in the former meeting of the Assembly come to some improvements in this sense or direction. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2271	Replica coworker Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You see, dear fellow I saw yesterday after going on an independent television show watching almost all the news shows and even these magazines and I didn't notice any convictions. Even on one such show, there was even talk about the interpretation of sprawl films, why I think it's total nonsense, and it doesn't take time to pay the translator, because I think we understand that language very well. On the other hand, I haven't noticed that condemnation, although I don't have much time to read the paper in the morning as some do because I have to do it, but I think it's even that, and obviously it's true that it's too late for a conviction because both the Minister and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic have to react without delay. Because I may have intended to go to the semifinals, perhaps most citizens had the intention of going to the semifinals, but if the institutions of the first Croatian state, and then the neighbouring friendly states do not guarantee security in one handball game then the question is raised, I am not now talking about Croatian defenders who cannot cross the border because they will eventually be arrested for war crimes but I am talking about fans so about normal people who love sports, and no one can guarantee them safety. So I appeal again because it is not enough to send a protest note but to react as quickly as possible and to guarantee the safety of Croatian citizens who go as tourists in the neighbouring country. No matter what your coworkers write on the Internet or when it's posted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2273	I didn't get the best idea of what this replica has to do with the Law on Raising and Education in elementary and high school, but it might be a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2274	I'm sorry you weren't here. I could do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2275	I was listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2276	Here's a colleague, Vinkovic, you call the mayor of Bac, and he'll provide you with security when you go to a handball game, and you can do it through your colleague Saba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2277	The next person to apply for the debate is distinguished representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2278	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Dominister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As an introduction, I would refer only to one sentence, I would not blame Serbia for not calming her hooligans until Croatia calms down its own. We didn't calm those hooligans in our house, we didn't make the order, so why accuse Serbia that she didn't stop someone from getting hit by a car. I'd move on to this point right now that it is. So there is no doubt here that again because of the politicization of the entire educational process, we are proposed to change the law as proposed. It's the essence of this proposal, it's the essence of changing this law and nothing else. This means he wants to remove any obstacle to a regulation between the minister and his appointment of a director, as was the commission now. And the minister says I have the right to directly appoint a director without any control, without any recommendation, any professional bodies and any professional people. And that is the ultimate goal of this law because we see already in the semi-contest that the School Committees will also change, so they too will become relevant in this process. I don't mind if it's for this furniture, but I think the laws should work for a long time. Because some other furniture will come in four years, so they will change according to their political will and set up a director. I think it's not good, but it should have been this process that went to depolitize schools that should have improved it, continued, entrenched etc. Here we return to the same policy as yesterday's discussion of the Law of Conflict of Interest where all those supervisory councils, etc. are abolished. This is the same policy. Well, good luck to you gentlemen on the left or comrades, but this is not good for Croatia. I'm not interested in being the headmaster of the school and Karl Marx, but I am interested in having my child or your child or all the children in Croatia learn in that school. In recent years, much has been done on the plan of material improvements in working conditions, etc., but nothing has changed in the essence of the burden of a child going to school. And I'm looking on behalf of the children in the name of logic and in the name of the mind to reduce the amount of material, the amount of material a child must adopt in elementary and middle in a way to limit and reduce the weight of the school bag. Literally to apply the textbooks on the scale or scale to apply to how much this school material tends to adopt and to limit to those who print textbooks the number of pages on which it must be the material of history because it is 100 pages or 150. So, to strictly limit both weight, volume, and volume as much as it can be. Secondly, to change the way and learn and study in our schools both in primary and secondary schools, without any shame and fully convinced that I am right and all the studies in primary and secondary schools are reduced to memory-memory memorying and cremation, the student is forced to learn and thus learn and thus examine it. Then why do we need information and information? It's a demagogy on our part bluffing, hypocrisy. Because children need to learn to respond to the system of shrilling the entire material of a 300-page book please nice in elementary or high school for one subject. And there's no great score, there's no "A" if you don't "overglade" it from the first to the last letter without leaving out a single word in any sentence in the entire text, and then there's an "A." And if that's what a student tries to tell in his own words there's no two of her, you did well if you got a two, come on one, etc. So that's the essence of things. The problem of the number three is also in our schools that in Croatia's national history, so far the truth has been mutilated. We are not our students in the present time, and I especially want this to be presented in future generations to the full historical truth of the Croatian people, because it has so far been dented by our policy of Croatian trust that was necessary, but this policy of these Croatian trusts is a compromise which meant that it was silenced and is now not allowed to know the new generations of historical truth that communists have committed great crimes during and after World War II and that no one is sanctioned. And that, in my court, the greatest criminal, one of the greatest criminals of World War II, Tito, was not declared a war criminal a fact is also the consequence of such a policy that one man, Mr. Branimir Glavas, who we here say is guilty of two men, did not kill them but was found guilty of two and was found to be a war criminal and is treated here without shame every day by a war criminal and is in prison. If this is the case with the rule of law of Croatia, so be it, they will serve the punishment, all right. But there's no point in us keeping quiet then to the historical truth, I'm looking for the need for a trial as a parliamentary representative for opening this process in the sense of an international court to judge another Tito whether he's a war criminal or not. If he's a war criminal, he can't have his own square in our capital, and if he can't. ... /The noise in the hall./... It's a determination of historical truth. Just talk, but you'll talk after my 10 minutes are up. So we have other big objections, but for 10 minutes, it's not possible to say everything. Teachers in elementary schools are a completely unprotected population, a completely unprotected population, with no possibility of defending the dignity. I don't know what dignity was, the dignity of the Homeland War is now a teacher of honor or so. My human civil rights, teachers have no rights, their fundamental human and civil rights are threatened against the insurgency of different species, I would not now list them here which are all the violence that threatens their rights, but they do not have the opportunity to defend themselves, are exposed to the media link and what could not be taken in the context of this regulation in terms of criminal measures because they will come into the media as such and such. So I'm looking for stricter rules of conduct in the home line of school, and then it doesn't matter who's on the school board at all. Let's say, here's the chairman of our Parliament, I'd put six vice presidents in the form of a copy of Stazic. I don't care, but I need to know, if one student did it and it did it to follow that and that. And that's all. It means total depolitization of schooling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2279	Here's your debate that caused a whole series of replicas. But before that, one notice, which is that at 10 o'clock and 44 minutes, the time has elapsed for a ten-minute hearing. Now let's go to the replicas. First, my colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2280	Dear colleague, I must confess that it will be difficult for you to replicate. ... So you have something to ask, colleague Lucin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You mentioned the weight of the school bag, so I don't know now if it's any disproportionate to this at your club again, but remember if you were watching, I was wearing a school bag that you didn't want to take and see how heavy it was. As for Karl Marx, don't make him the school principal, he's dead, and that policy is long dead. But what you said at the beginning is pretty much something like this. Namely, Croatian hooligans in the stadium are the problem of Croatia, and they are being dealt with through a law called the Law on the Prevention of Controversy in Stadiums, etc. and you cannot bring them to the same level as what happened now in the Republic of Serbia where Croatian citizens were attacked. For your information, the 12 processed by the Serbian police were released this morning, and will likely welcome those cars with Croatian registration marks again and throw stones. God forbid they attack with something else. So I repeat, I ask the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to protect their citizens. As for Marx, Engels, Lenin, Titus, I leave it to you, and you deal with them. This is still the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2281	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2282	Thank you very much. Dear Comrade Marasovic, since you are speaking to us here as friends and friends, then I will be willing to tell you Comrade Marasovic. I'm glad you said about the weight of school bags because the government run by your party has tripled and doubled the weight of those bags in my personal opinion to favor publishers, not the quality of our education. And as for Comrade Tito, I just want to comment on the following. We wouldn't be sitting here either, and most likely you from Dalmatia if it wasn't for that man.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2283	We'll hear the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2284	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2285	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2286	I said in my statement that the Ministry of Education and Culture, etc. in the past term, I don't mean just for the past two terms, we can count on it since '45, if you want before, school has always been an education, that's done enough, that, yes, before the '90s, a series of new schools were made, why not, but that no problem of weight of the bag has been solved, and I don't think it's been resolved in the past two terms either. And I am correcting your incorrect allegations, the fact is that NDH and Pavelic have written off acts on the handover of Dalmatia and Istria, that is correct, but Istria was before Pavelic and NDH under Italy, but it is the fact that Dalmatia has been reintegrated into NDH, Croatia and prior to the arrival of Partisan. Therefore, it was not Comrade Tito who returned Dalmatia under Croatian jurisdiction, but rather the NDH and Pavelic returned Dalmatia and all that, only Istria remained. ... /The noise in the hall./... You're learning a little history, you need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2287	The next replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2288	Well colleague, your starting point when you started and condemned the hooligans of every kind here and across the branch I think it was okay and that's something that we must continue to be in the focus of our interest both at home, but also as harshly as the Government and reacted and when it happens outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. I think the fight against hooliganism has a lot to do with what we're discussing today. That is why what the Government has promised to learn and educate people from those young ones from our schools from the earliest age because we have not learned or been born to learn about democracy, that all conflicts are resolved in a peaceful way, by conversation, by arguments, and that we are finally mature, to accept different, different. It's always a fortune. From this diversity and from the argument, there must always be a new value. And when so, so we raise young people, then we'll learn something and the older one, and that's why this second part of your debate was completely unnecessary, without any ambition to go back to those times. It should be noted, however, since you mentioned that you have become a doctor because of this, and that it is much more certain, if it is certain that you may be something else before, perhaps a shepherd or something else that you have not used these options. And what was good to finally be a citizen is to really condemn in our past. We have the strength to do that. All that was bad, and all that was good was our wealth and that with it, not only should we be proud but we should also develop it tomorrow as Croatia in the European Union. Because we were a social state and Croatia can only survive if it is a social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2289	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2290	Honored Parliamentarian Mrs. Antičević, I became a doctor thanks to my assumed average mind, great perseverance and great work and my parents. And nothing past my system is yes, but I'm not yelling against that system. Three of my houses in Split crashed, and he kicked me out of the student dorm in 1972. When I asked, I went there to the Faculty Committee of Communists' Alliance what I did. Well, you didn't, you talked, you didn't do anything, but that's where you talk a lot. That was an explanation. I was kicked out of Charengrad. So they didn't give me anything. But I'm not complaining. It wasn't a bad school system. I don't think he should be attacked.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2291	Next replica representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma colleague Marasovic, I want to rephrase to you because I realized differently that part of yours, I apologize, discussing the weight of the school bag. In fact, I must tell you that in the past term, the Ministry has several times amended the Bookbooks Act. The colleagues who were here know that. It's right on the trail of what to prevent any manipulation by trading textbooks and to prevent that corrupt part of the textbook. But I'm worried about something else. You've started a good topic. The problem of curiculum, both national and school. I will speak further now in class, teaching plans and programs because that termology in schools is still present. I'm worried about something else. The announcement by Minister Jovanovic for the introduction of two new programmes in our schools, which is a health or sexual education programme and a civil education programme. Will we, as a wider educational public, have a broader discussion about it or will these young people at the gallery today watch us introduce two new objects without asking whether those 15, 16 or 17, even 17 high school colleagues are too much for these school bags and for these young people. Are we going to introduce two new items overnight, because it seems to me that we are right on the trail of the current minister's announcements.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2293	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2294	Thank you. I'd like to actually be the first part of the replica to refer to the role... and World War II, anti-fascist struggle, etc. Because I'm from Istria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think Mrs. Tanya Vrbat has said what we think I would replicate. Obviously, our views are diametrically opposite. As far as the bag is concerned, I'd be doing another part of it. It was a talk of having to know everything by heart today in order to get 5 and how heavy the bag is. We are now in the 21st century, so with the information equipment, it can be reduced to one laptop that weighs a little bit, everything's in there. But the fact that you need to know everything by heart for five simply isn't true and it points to all the achievements that still the person who teaches, the lecturer most important. There are from, therefore, very good to very bad. And I don't think this story is right for those who try to get these kids to know a little bit more things than they are. I still believe that, therefore, a living lecturer of persons, not just some computer, is very important, and that in that sense it should be seen to reduce to about 20 students, not to 30. And that the lecturer as a person depends most on how much you need to know, what you should know, and he's a person who's actually educated by this country and invests a lot of money to know how to pass on his knowledge to another. So I think the center of it is that it's not true that there's gotta be a bug in the head, and how much to learn and what the results are that teachers are the most important. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the professor, so calling was once an achievement, and today, unfortunately, a lot of people don't even want to go to professors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2295	And the last replica, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2296	Mr. Marasovic, one of the most beautiful markets in Croatia, is true to bear the name of Josip Broz Tito, a marshal even Tito, who is truly absurd given the contradictory assessment and historical assessment of his character and works. That is why I support the "Corruption for the Square" action to change the name of the square, and given the role of the latter, if it had not been for its operation, there would have been no society of political prisoners today, which is numerous, and Croatia would have quite a number of inhabitants than there are today, both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, when you talked about school bags and their weight, then those who approved the issue of school textbooks, the accumulation of objects, the splitting of some items, etc. Well, I should never have told school textbook publishers to sue for numerous scoliosis, and you and I both know what it is, kids who got it just for this reason. As for physical violence or dignity, pardon first of all the teachers, teachers, educators as my last name says is indeed one topic that is a bit hidden. Because these people who are physically abused, so teachers can't even come out with the truth in public. They'd be convicted or conflicted with their parents, and then they'd be investigating the truth and who knows what kind of reaction it would be? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] It was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2297	We still have another replica, counterpart Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Marasovic. Raising the education system was he in primary or secondary schools always has places to improve both systems which are now on the agenda. You, in your discussion, have also touched the dispensation of the students, of course you should strive to relieve the students. It's not about the weight of that bag, our first or second grade student's study bag, but you're one segment, why I called for a debate, you touched it when it comes to grading. There are rules on evaluations that are in force in our primary and secondary schools and the vast majority of our colleagues working in schools stick to that rule. However, the problem is for me in the last 20 years, even 30 years, that the student does not learn for knowledge but for evaluation. Which is a tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2299	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2300	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I think the bill promoter actually succeeded in what he wanted because this whole debate is not about the essence of this bill but we have managed to touch the famous divisions from World War II to the bullning of schools, to the weight of the school bag, etc., and in fact it seems to me that the focus of interest has escaped somewhere what is actually proposed here. One change of law is proposed which is very fast, I don't know why it is so much hurrying because the measure of things is resolved by a regulation and there is no reason to do what is done by this law in an urgent procedure. And by this law, I, too, want to draw very clear attention to the scale of things because the law is by no means, this change is not just a technical nature but it is of a very essential nature, so this law wants to be aware that the decision on school principals is in the hands of one man. There used to be a commission, a commission appointed by the minister again, but at the very least there was a commission. Now, according to all that is happening, of course in this assembly, it is again the power, the authority, of an individual rather than acting exactly the opposite of what has been declared so that the coalition of the ruling pre-election promises. So decentralisation, decentralisation, etc. I expected that the proposal would first be more complex, that some time would be given for more months to make real, fundamental changes to the laws that are really likely and necessary that would lead to better education, better school management, etc., but that would go exactly the opposite direction. That if we weren't satisfied that there was a commission that ultimately depended more or less on the minister, not that it would be able to concentrate in the hands of the minister but that it would go the other way. We always swear to decentralisation, decentralisation, etc., that it will go towards creating perhaps an independent body that would also assess the quality of those offered by school boards for principals and perhaps a professional body, etc. Instead, we have something that I believe is a significant step back, that we return power to the ministry in the hands of the minister and that individual will therefore decide on all those directors, whether or not I can be or cannot be in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there is always the possibility that an educational inspection will say that someone is wrong and that it will eventually depend on whether someone remains director or not, but I remind you again that the educational inspection depends on that same minister. So instead of going in another direction that I at least expected would go back, power goes back into the hands of one man. Of course, the questions that are open here today and that rarely come down to the fact that we may and may need to improve our education, and especially the girls are commendable. I expect that it will happen with the real and fundamental changes in the laws and other acts that follow it. However, if the questions of the girls have already been touched, then I must openly say that I am extremely disturbed, for example. in a girlcullum other than all other things and that, say, the Homeland War is almost marginalized, that children born after the Homeland War, that is, after the start of the Homeland War actually get the same information about it as about Napoleon's wars, and it's just as far away from them. For example, if we asked these young people who were up until a few minutes ago at this gallery who is, say, Blago Zadar or who is Josip Jovic I guarantee you most of them wouldn't even know who these people are because unfortunately, they don't listen at school and there's one whole series of other things that we in the contents could fix and I hope we'll fix them. However, I draw attention to this again, this is not at all said in this bill. The bill only comes down to the minister and only the minister confirming what the school committees are proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2301	Thank you, colleague Reiner. Here's your debate. It's even encouraged four colleagues to come forward. First of all, for the correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Ana Komparic Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2302	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues so I'm a little surprised by these discussions because I hope that those involved in these discussions know or participate or at least read how the election of directors works. You are well aware that the school boards of individual schools are looking at competitions, that these same school committees are opening up requests and also naming them, that is to say so far, so this was a proposal for an inter-committee to elect a director, and then the minister appointed, or confirmed the proposal from the school board. Now we have a situation that we also have school boards made up of seven members and the same school board by the same procedure suggests that the minister, and if you listened well to our minister this morning then the minister said that there will be still people who will therefore also be able to propose to him candidates for the selection of directors, i.e. what the school board proposes will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2303	Time, co-worker, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2304	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2305	I'm sorry, so this was a correction to an incorrect quote, but you'll have three answers now. [[/The speaker's not on, he doesn't understand.]] First, the replica of counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2306	Here's my colleague Rainer, I'm going to repeat what my colleague said, so you're free to replicate to me, so on the Education Committee, we're the principles of this issue, and it's completely unclear to me that this abstraction is kind of, I totally understand what my colleague said, so I wouldn't repeat this fear that you're scaring the public, we're talking about centralizing power in the hands of a man, in this case the minister is completely unwarranted. When it comes to education, we know how the principals are elected, and we know in whose hands the power is centralized, it's certainly not the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2307	My colleague Reiner's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2308	Well, I agree with that, of course, and you and I know very well that the school board is proposing, but now, by the order of this law, without the personal consent of the minister, no one will be able to be the director. So far, there has been a commission that gave its opinion now that commission is no longer in the law. Will the minister, by his own good will and by understanding the problem of someone tasked to prepare the materials for him or not, that is his personal will, he wants to do it, he may not do it, one minister will do it, another minister will not do it, we are not making this hour of the Law now, neither for this current minister nor for the former minister, we are making the law of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2309	Next replica, distinguished colleague Frano Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2310	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would also like to refer to the debate of the esteemed colleague Reiner, where I would also agree that this way of amending the law is already not a good one. In fact, the minister has other things to do and not that he deals with appointments, which means that we are returning the whole system back to the hands of one man, why we have just chosen the school boards, so that people from the field, who know both the director and this entire system that in local self-government, regional self-government, these people evaluate and give consent to those people, capital investments, in education needs a variety of ways to improve education. Why now the minister in Zagreb called himself one way or another must be the man who will be the cap and give his signature for someone to be the director there. It's crazy, instead of going and spreading democratisation and in education and all institutions, we are thus reducing the ability to decide and putting a decision into the hands of politics. Gentlemen, this isn't the first proposal, this is school. Yesterday we talked about other problems where you centralize power even more than it is today. And in fact, it should be given to managing those bodies that people at local levels have chosen to best evaluate those people they know best. The minister does not know 98% of the directors in Croatia, so respected friends we do, we return to the past instead of the minister dealing with how and how to improve education and all that is missing so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2311	I didn't realize what you didn't agree with your colleague Reiner, so you replicated to him, this was a debate, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2312	I'm the one who got attached to his argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2313	All right, we're not having sex. If I'm right, it's proof that there's no response at all to the replica, maybe now we'll hear a real replica of our colleague, Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so simply put, colleague Reiner, as you said otherwise, we're dealing with human resources here. I'd like to get attached here we've heard something about and I think the Ministry should be dealing with some obstacles, colleague Lugaric will know what I'm going to talk about now. So, I come from Međimurje County and there lives over 15,000 Roma and I think it's one of the bigger problems that the Ministry should be dealing with, not humanizing. My colleagues and colleagues will say one other thing, it was incorrectly said here that, for example, if a child does not come to school, everyone will run and the welfare centers will ask why the child is not there. I'll tell you that it's also in the case of Roma children and, for example, in the County of Međimurje 84% of the total social assistance goes to the Roma population, 1200 first-class people have current Roma in Međimurje County, and I think that's a question we should be dealing with rather than asking who will be the director here or there. Speaking of directors in Međimurje County, there are great people, great directors who are working right now and directors are in schools where most of the Roma population, small students, who want to know and who need to be given a chance for their full integration. We're dealing with the staff here instead of dealing with the essence of the problem. And lastly, I want to say that they are provided and transported, a warm meal and, of course, it is not true that no one cares about them. I repeat, 15 thousand Roma, 1200 tops in Međimurje County, colleagues and colleagues I think that's the topic we need to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2315	This wasn't a real replica because my colleague Reiner didn't speak at all about the Roma, so the opportunity to report for the debate we all have and it would be good to stick to as many Rules of Procedure as possible, it will be easier for us to work. All right, we'll continue the debate, the distinguished representative of Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2316	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I don't know if anyone noticed that there were 50 or 60 students at our gallery about 15 minutes ago who were, unfortunately, well followed by a politicized debate, and I'm not sure that we gave them the right example of having to deal with content in their lives rather than politicizing as we did with our example. But I would now specifically about this law and what is said essentially of this problem regarding the selection of the principal or the position of the school board in that decision-making system. In fact, yesterday we just had a debate on the supervisory boards or the management structure of companies and it is clear that the days of the message that this government and the competent ministries want to manage the system. If the Supervisory Boards are those who oversee and manage the work of commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or where the Government is the founder, then the school boards in the institutions of education in the Republic of Croatia, where the founders are cities and county. What is absurd throughout that system means that those who are founders who are directly responsible and directly responsible for managing these institutions have a minority number of board members which I do not think is quite normal. It would be possible to discuss how and which personnel should be members of these school boards in order to prevent the politicisation of such structures, but it seems to me that the counties or cities that the founders should have the ability to manage through the school boards, since the school board has great powers. And now the situation is that school committees vote in secret voting means choosing a director without the founder having the right to an opinion. It means that the institution responsible for the operation of the institution does not ask whether it is in agreement or not with the selection of directors. Otherwise, I know from practice that the founder is most often skipped in the communication on the content of education on programmes in schools, that communication is most often made directly between schools and the ministry and that the most often founders are informed of certain decisions made in this communication. Why am I saying all this? Because it was done at the time of the coalition government at the time of the government of Mr. Racan's first step in decentralisation, and we all welcomed it. Founding rights were granted to cities, larger cities and counties. However, the next step in which these founders were to take greater responsibility, but of course the means to manage these systems, unfortunately, has not happened in all these ten years and I don't think that's good and that that's the essence of the problem. That the solution to the problem is to bring the system down to the level of local or regional self-government, above all the basic education and decision-making system. It is also quite clear that citizens or all stakeholders who are citizens in this system, students, parents, it is all of us, their interests and their objections to the whole system are mainly focused on founders, meaning cities, municipalities. So if the school doesn't look good if the doors aren't fixed, if there's an excess in schools, violence, everything is directed towards the founder, and the founder has relatively small or no authority to make order in that school and to establish a system that is targeted which he would like. Here, of course, the debate spread, and there could be a lot of talk about schooling, so the HDZ colleagues talked about the big shifts that took place in our school, and I was unfortunately a correct participant of the whole story because I was in such a position, so I know what was going on. At one point we were really hoping, at one point we had a free ride for our high school students, i.e. it started with the first classes. We had free textbooks for a while. Was that system the best? About this, but surely that some kind of free getting textbooks and funds to work in schools must be available not to say for free. He was visible and one shift in his time in investing in higher education, so they launched major projects. Especially where I come from in Rijeka, it means investing in a university campus. Unfortunately, a good part of all this has been suspended in the last two years, so all these rights have been abolished, the promise that high school will be made mandatory since, of course, certain rights of both students and their parents would result in concrete and free transportation. These are all topics that we will definitely and need to discuss here, these are some basic preconditions to improve our system of education, but I think the first next step and what I hope our government and our minister will propose is further decentralisation and communication at this point with the founders, with the field, with schools, in which way we better improve the whole system. And the fact that the appointment of the principal or possibly suspension of the school board's decision by the minister has been the same so far, so the minister could suspend it. As the current commission that has been in place so far has worked, we all know very well from practice. Therefore, nothing here is usurped by anyone that could not be usurped in time if they wanted to, and we believe that the minister will not use this right especially because he has also committed that within the ministry system he will establish a body that will measurely give him recommendations in a possible decision to suspend one of the directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2317	Thank you, too. We have one replica, colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, at the very beginning of your presentation, you said something that's just saying that you want to politicize everything, so everything wants to be in the hands of politics. You said that the change of these laws we've been talking about in the last two days, which is a change in the members of the boards of directors' boards of directors' offices, confirms that this government wants to manage the systems, so it wants to manage the education system as well. It's the whole story that can't stand in the field of education. I said that in previous terms, we have also advocated depolitisation of education because it must be organised. You talk all the time about a commission that didn't work or worked for you. We don't have any such knowledge. It is not disputed whether the minister or minister will give consent, because he has now given the law in force. But the explanation given by the ministry for Article 1 of the amendment and the addition of the law states: the minister will continue to grant or deny prior consent in the appointment of the principal of school institutions in the same procedure and within the same time limits, but without the previous proposal of the said commission. Then why didn't we go to what the minister here today said in his opening statement that he would still appoint that commission. Can we believe he'll name it? It could have remained in the law that the minister would nominate the commission with a sublegal act. In this case, this commission has been completely abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2319	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2320	Dear colleagues, I really hope that for this promise Mr. Secretary will have a very quick opportunity to ask him again when he comes to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2321	Thank you very much. We'll hear another debate, it'll be a five-minute debate on behalf of the HDSSB club. Dear colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister. The HDSSB Club will support this law because, as I said in an individual debate, the essence of this law and the appointment of the Director is not changing, nor is the Director's resolution. Since the commission so far has also been, hand to heart, and let us not lie to ourselves, there has also been one political authority that made up the secretary of state, the director of the ministry and the director of the Educational Inspectorate. So, this bill of law instead of the commission's proposal on the proposal of the school board, the minister confirms the selection of directors. Let us be aware that no director has been unconfirmed in the past practice, unless the media has been waiting for something that has been mixed with morale in society and there has been no morals, and I have no doubt that there will be political accounts now, since school committees are composed of different political options, especially from the founders' representatives. But since most, therefore, are proposals for future things that this ministry should first and foremost do in order to respond to certain discussions here, I think it is good that, with these seven members, in any case, two representatives of the local self-government unit in which the school is located, and are not founders in view of their financial opportunities. The second was, in any case, we require this ministry to find a way and here in this 2012 budget so that it can re-provide free transportation to all students of both primary and secondary schools, as well as free education textbooks that are mandatory. Just descending to the local level that certain demands must also be followed by fiscal decentralisation and irrefutable, and this is also the job of the entire new government. This ratio, the disgraceful ratio of tax revenues that flow into the state budget and tax revenues that flow towards local self-government units must be changed. I will remind you that this relationship is now 92% in favour of the state and the state budget, and only 8% of the total tax revenue goes towards local self-government units. It must be changed at this time to at least 30% for local self-government units, 70% towards the state so that local self-government units can participate and can take care of all matters that are related to jurisdiction. So decentralisation yes, but also irrefutable fiscal decentralisation. And finally here we are as we discuss children still breaking their spines under those heavy bags on the way to Croatia knowledge and therefore should not be a false hypocrite. You had a chance and your party president and the government could see how heavy that bag was on their backs, and she didn't want to accept it. It was that pink bag of about 12 kilos for grade two. In the end, I appeal once again to the ministry, to the government and to the president of the Republic of Croatia, and if someone didn't get it wrong, this could have happened in Hungary and Canada, and the HDSSB would have reacted the same way. But let's protect our citizens, our citizens, Croatian citizens from the outbursts that are already possible today, but tomorrow, because many will be on their way to Belgrade, start encouraging the Croatian handball team and let's not be late for two days. Let us be clear and loud in these requirements because it is the only thing we can do not only on this trip to the European Union but we must also make clear and loud demands from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to protect Croatian citizens...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2323	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2324	Last sentence. Those who are not going to fight in Serbia are going to cheer for the Croatian handball team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2325	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2326	In the end, we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2327	At the end of the debate, we will also hear Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports, colleague Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2328	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I really thank you for this debate which has gone beyond the scope of these planned changes in some parts. I would also like to make it very clear at the very beginning of the mandate that what I hope we will be able to agree in one of the things in the Republic of Croatia is a consensus, it is a need for consensus on the importance of knowledge and education, about but not only about it but also about the main objectives, that is, other than the main directions in the development of education and science. In fact, school cycles, educational cycles are such that they are over one political mandate that is within four years. Our children go to school eight in the rule of 12 years and over. And namely, if we are to limit ourselves within four years of a political mandate, we will work without consensus. Namely, no one will succeed in doing what the Croatian school needs, which is indeed profound and complete change. In this sense, we as the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports see the Croatian Parliament as partners. We are really pleased that you have made many proposals here and in further discussions we expect here in the Croatian Parliament and in the home Committee on Education, Science and Culture, but also in all direct contacts for which we are open as a ministry with all of you MPs and MPs, we expect you not only to tell us what problems are based on insight in your election units but that you are also proposing to us the best solutions based on these direct insights. Because somehow we think that the laws and regulations are passed by the Croatian Parliament, and that our work is in some way to ensure the best implementation of these laws. At the very beginning, I would like to say that, I think, my colleague Boro Grubisic mentioned it. So these changes to the law are not caused by the needs of our internal structure. We, as a ministry, would form in accordance with all regulations and laws. However, these changes were caused by the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament in December when it abolished state secretaries and directors' offices. We could leave a commission made up of the secretary of state or the director of the administration, but we can neither really nor legally nor at all leave them. Simply these jobs and these duties no longer exist by our decision, not by our need to change the internal structure, but by the laws adopted by this Croatian Parliament and which we as a ministry are obliged to respect and implement. And so far, some MPs may have been less familiar and have so far had the minister at his disposal to grant or deny prior consent to the appointment of directors. It was instituted during the former government four years ago. We are only holding this institute, and we would like to say that actually the principals, and it is very clear to point out that the principals are elected by the school board made up of representatives of school workers, representatives of parents and representatives of the founders. The ministry and state in the process of appointment and election of directors have no influence whatsoever. It is only in phase two that comes this kind of corrective mechanism where it is carried out simply as it is our task and our legal obligation to see if this administrative procedure is carried out as it fits and to go through inspection finds if everything was really okay. Only on this basis does the minister deny consent. As a rule, I'm glad to hear that mention from my colleague Vinkovic. As a rule, this agreement is sufficient in extremely rare situations when there has been a breach of the procedure by the school board not in the selection of a specific person, but simply in the administrative procedure, this agreement has in some ways been denied. A colleague Đurovic who spoke on behalf of the HDSSB club initially mentioned the problem of keeping a place for directors. My colleague, I'd just like to meet you if Article 128(2) were. The law on education and education in high school guards the workplace. So that I can return to my post through two mandates. So in 10 years. So that remark doesn't sort of stand. Also, you were talking about how it would be good for children to attend school only in the morning tour. Perhaps I would use this remark in some way as a principle that we would like to establish in the state, which is that everyone simply does their job. The Ministry cannot and must not edit the internal mode of work of the school. Whether children will go to school only in the morning or afternoon is an autonomous decision of the school and must remain as such. On behalf of the HNS club, counterpart Coleman first began speaking openly in a way that debate over the composition of the school boards. We have seen through this debate that even individual representatives from the same parties have different opinions on what the composition of these school committees should be. We'd really like to do it in a way and help and suggestion to put it that way. Because the fact is that founders should have influence and influence on school management. Namely, they have three out of seven board members. On the other hand, we get a lot of votes that parents should have more influence. Some say that there should be more influence from the chambers. However, as long as you do not agree here in the Croatian Parliament what is the best ratio we will simply have to resort to the solution that everyone has the same share and that simply no one has a majority there. Many MPs and MPs said that in school we needed a substantial change. Yeah, we agree with that. One of our basic tasks as our own ministry is actually to change what is being taught and how is being taught at school. In fact, we're talking about getting a national curicula and no one's talking about introducing new objects overnight. Of course, it is clear to every reasonable person that new items on an existing clock overnight cannot be conducted. They will be part of complete curricula reforms that have to be redefined in some way and the goal of what is taught in school. We'd also love to, and we'd like to ask all the MPs when you're talking about teachers' salaries, about schoolwork, about one-way follow-up. These are all the projects that we from the Ministry and support and stand behind them so that in an adequate way you show your care through the adoption of a state budget. On behalf of the SDP club, counterpart Tomic talks about education and education in preschool institutions. Yeah, that's really important. In contrast to other countries, we already have a large range of children in preschool education. Somewhere if I'm not mistaken between 5% and 7% of children are not covered by at least some form of preschool education. And we will, of course, do everything to meet that legal obligation that all children, at least one year before primary school, go to some form of pre-school education and education, but we would like to note again that education and education in pre-school institutions excludes the responsibility of local self-government units, and we expect in some way from both cities and municipalities to carry out what is not only their legal obligation but also in some way the question seems to us almost and the mind, or the very concern for the future in some way for children. On behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart Roksandić spoke in some way about the regulation and the law why we went with the law that completely revised the regulation so quickly. In fact, although there is an institute that the Government can pass until the Parliament meets a regulation with legal force, we still think that the laws and rules should be passed by the Croatian Parliament, not by the Government, and that is why we went with these urgent amendments to the laws that have been revised immediately in the debate. My colleague Roksandić, a colleague of Marasovic, a colleague of Reiner's, spoke of politics entering a small door, and we disagree. So far, this commission has been done by the secretary of state, the directors of the administration, all by a squad of state officials, the directors of the administration at one point stopped being state officials and became officials. They started out as state officials, they're people who've mostly left the ministries and we just want this job done by management, that it's done by officers within the primary and secondary school departments, not by government officials or by more senior officials. On the other hand, we hope that the Croatian Parliament is behind our goal, which is to ensure that I say the sustainability of the law, i.e. legal certainty, and that we do not have to implement the amendments to the law every time a change occurs within the structure of the state administration. It is no doubt that this decision on the prior consent of the appointment of the director is a duty and responsibility of the minister. And that's something that hasn't changed and that's never changed. We would love it if we agreed to write the laws so that they are simply permanent and independent of changes within the structure of the state administration system, that they clearly define what is whose job, whose responsibility is that of people who have received trust, who have a responsibility in some way leave their hands open to regulate themselves by internal acts how this will be achieved. Ms. Representative Ruza Tomasic, and Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic also spoke about the educational moments, about how many problems there are in schools. Yeah, we agree. Indeed, many of these problems seem almost impossible, many teachers, teachers, parents, children, feel almost and powerless in many of the things that happen in schools, but I would like to point out that actually school may be the first and then the clearest mirror of the general state of society. And we can't change the situation in this context in schools without, in fact, reaching out to a wider social change. And when I first said that in this part of it, the goal was to provide us with a consensus of all political forces, we are also talking about this. We from the ministry can do things even if we want to prescribe things, and in particular we cannot ensure that absolutely every detail is prescribed, nor can it be done by political directives, rules of the ministries, but simply by building a different system of values in which work is appreciated, which appreciates trust, in which progress is appreciated based on knowledge and we are sure that we will also have the support of this Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative Ivan Grubisic spoke of the need to film the situation first, and then go with the changes. Yes, we agree, and that's why we've been going with the amendments to the law in this one necessary area that is related to the abolition of certain functions within the state administration system. And, of course, we will be based on these discussions, but also on all those insights that we have received recently before the Parliament and with the full amendments to the law. And in the end, counterpart Vinkovic said that this law does not change anything. It is changing very little, indeed technically, but we are closing the possibility of opening court disputes and losing court disputes for procedural reasons. If we hadn't changed this, and if the situation had occurred, the minister would have denied some director's consent that had not yet happened even though we had 20 such appointments already, the director might have complained to us and got a verdict because the simple decision on his, the denial of consent was not based on the law. I believe that all of you here are MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament primarily responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, responsible for the state budget, and that we really must not leave the possibility of high costs that should be paid for procedural reasons from the state budget. And here's the last thing I really want to do is thank you again for this debate. We have recorded a number of proposals here and we would like to continue to discuss constructively with all MPs and MPs on the construction of consensus on the necessary changes in the Croatian school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2329	I would like to thank Deputy Minister Marija Lugaric. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, esteemed colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, it's incorrect what you said you didn't want politicizing. That's exactly the kind of change you've made. If you didn't want to, then you would have left the commission institution in any form because you yourself said that the minister in the second degree in which he agreed to appoint the director requires the opinion of experts. What experts? Which he'll name. Then why isn't the law just a commission to be appointed by the Minister by a sublaw? And for those of you who have discussed the sublaws here, we do not have to bring us to the Croatian Parliament but to the Government's proposal. So will or won't be a commission on it will still be decided by the minister, and he is a political person.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2331	Comrade Roksandić, first of all, this was not a correction to the incorrect allegations. You know what a correction to an incorrect quote is? That you said, for example. It's named 12, and it's not 16 principals. Correction of the data. But this just points us to the fact that we're going to have to change the Rules of Procedure. ... Please, so don't shout out of the bench. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Nobody gave you a word, don't shout. That concludes the debate. We will vote on this bill when the conditions are met, as it is said, and these conditions will likely come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2332	Final draft law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 18, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, so please let us get involved and vote. Excuse me, we can determine the quorum first. I beg of you, at least it's doubtless enough to have us but first to determine the quorum. Thank you very much. There are 123 of us present in the hall. Now I have to let you know, I guess they all do the keys to all of you, except me. That's where they let me know. I can see my key's not working. Is anyone else not working? And it doesn't work for you? ... /The noise in the hall./... Then we have no choice but to vote by hand. I apologize, it's a continuation of the problem as far as I hear the techniques from earlier and we'll have to deal with it the next days hopefully. Now, we're gonna have to wait for the members of our technical service to gather to do their part of the job. Can we go on? So, I put to the vote the final draft law amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 18. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that most votes with 90 votes in favour and 34 against the Law amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary schools are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2333	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 21 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received reports from those committees at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2334	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Representatives and MPs at the Croatian Parliament. The Law on Educational Inspection, which was adopted in 2011, provides for the establishment, jobs, mode of work, rights, duties and powers of the Educational Inspection in such a way that the Educational Inspection was established as the Administration of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, headed by the Director of Administration. By way of derogation from the Act on the System of State Administration, the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration and the Regulation on the principles for the internal structure of the State Administration body all the way back to December of last year, the conditions of establishment of the establishment units in the form of ministries and, by virtue of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants have been amended, the functions of the Director of Administration have been abolished. Therefore, in order to comply with those rules, it was also necessary to amend the existing provisions of the Law on Educational Inspection. These amendments to the Act, which are really short, propose to prescribe the structure of an educational inspection as an independent internal unit of our ministry, which will be the head of an educational inspection which will be the level, will be in line with these regulations that I have previously read. What I consider important here is to note that it is important that the educational inspection be an independent and independent unit within the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, so that it does not fall under any other administration, and it seems to us that the solution by which we define both an independent and an independent unit is then, in accordance with the regulations of the internal organisation, we determine whether it will be the administration, the sector or I do not know in a few years something else in accordance with the regulations that will then be in place that is less important, but to ensure what is fundamental, what is most important for the work of the educational inspection, is its independence and independence from all other services within the ministry and all other policies that are being conducted in the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2335	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, the esteemed representative Valter Boljunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2336	Dear MPs, as I said yesterday at the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed this bill at the same time, so I would just like to point out the following that the discussion supported the Ministry that it was only nometic changes, however, part of the representatives was an opinion, the Committee member was of the opinion that this did not contribute to the transparency of work and independence so that at the end the vote ratio was 8 for and three against, and therefore this Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament should adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2337	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First of all, on behalf of the clubs, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, the esteemed representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2338	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honoring the deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendment of the law on educational inspection is of a technical nature and I believe absolutely nothing will be achieved in establishing a better education in educational and educational institutions. In the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Educational Inspection has not been amended since 1995. With a small change in 97th and all in 2011 when the new Law on Educational Inspection came out that many employees were not satisfied with. If we study all these items and articles that change, we conclude that these changes are about cosmetic nature and have not touched the very core of the problem in Croatian school. The Republic of Croatia has been designated a knowledge society as a prerequisite for socio-economic and any other development. In order to achieve a knowledge society, Croatia must have clear objectives and affirmative policies in the education system based on creating conditions for equality and availability of information for all. It is necessary to objectively objectify the enrolment of students in high school where the student’s knowledge, skills and skills must play a key role. In order to achieve this, we need to significantly increase investment, improvements, standards of schools, through the acquisition of modern equipment, teaching tools and assistance, more appropriate and encouraging investments in direct enforcement. Students and teachers, through more objective viewing and rewarding their work or punishing the work that would significantly motivate them to do better and more effective work. And from this, the role of an educational inspection is significant. And also a detailed analysis and corrections of the existing laws on education inspection are necessary. Discussing protest and control of work in the field is not grateful at all. While some feel that control has too much, others feel that surveillance is not being carried out enough. The information that 25 inspectors work in the Republic of Croatia, and 80,000 people are employed in school talk enough about how effective control can be. According to the May 2011 Educational Inspection Act, the educational inspection also includes the verification. Whether the registration of children, pupils and other students is carried out in accordance with the Law. We are aware that there are a lot of irregularities in such businesses, i.e. that students who cannot, by any standard, be enrolled in a particular department have an advantage over students who meet all the conditions. Can you imagine the feeling of a child who finishes elementary school with very good and excellent success enrolls in high school, and in front of him on the enrollment list there is a person who passed with a good one. So what is it, how can such a child have the motivation to work. The following task, whether students are burdened with teaching and other forms of direct educational work in accordance with the Law. We know that school students are coming to us increasingly exhausted with increased clocks, so it happens that in one day they have three, four, different areas of control. If employed persons are treated in educational institutions with respect to pupils and their parents in accordance with obligations and responsibilities. I personally know of cases where a teacher of one child and their parents ignore and neglect while other children and their parents are placed on the throne. Such cases are particularly pronounced in smaller environments. Is the process of commending and rewarding students and giving pedagogical measures in accordance with the Law being carried out. There have been violations of human rights in some educational institutions in terms of violence against children or students and nothing has literally been done. Such children experience trauma, and child abusers enjoy the reputation of other children. If a student diet is carried out, that is to say, a trip or other prescribed activity in accordance with the law. It is not clear to me that in certain schools, I personally know about the case of children almost daily in their diet they get pastries from a nearby bakery and nothing else, and on the other hand they spend funds from the state budget on healthy and diverse diet campaigns especially children. A well-known example from a school where the director only places jobs on a particular travel agency for the organisation of student travels and the agency is not a bit competitive against other agencies. So parents deliberately give up prom trips for their children from their beliefs. Educational inspectors need to carry out more accounts on the work of a director where in certain cases there are many irregularities. I'm not talking, and I'm not saying that every director doesn't do his job. There are honest and honest people. System institutions don't do their jobs, so it happens that individual directors have been breaking laws for years, harassing teachers, falsifying documents, receiving bribes, and still staying in position. Educational inspectors spend too much time on anonymous reports that are often without reason. And in order to get these applications done, the real problems end unexplored or put under the rug. My proposal is that the Educational Inspectorate should go into class unannounced and attend class. Consider whether the teacher is acting appropriately and it is more important for our inspectors whether the class is listed in the journal than the quality of teaching itself. Such cases best illustrate the sad situation in our school in which politics has fully adjudicated the rule of law and its institutions in which the Educational Inspection is very often not working or is unable to do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2339	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support these proposed amendments to the law. We agree that this is a matter of adjustment, in fact, of the situation already created, given other changes. However, in preparation for this debate, we made little effort and tried to analyse some of the key objections and problems encountered in the work of the inspection. Some of these topics were mentioned by my previous ones so that indeed in your respect of time I will pass for a while. So, the first and most basic objection that people have to say anywhere in Croatia are these anonymous reports that have somehow become one means of institutional beating of teachers and teachers and it is really a question of whether an anonymous application should be an application that the inspection really does then investigate in the full extent and full extent that the law allows. Another problem that people face and which they have major objections is the fact that the inspection vehemently bureaucratizes in a way that it checks the papers instead of believing in the real situation. It was trapped in a paper way of working in which each point, every detail, including even if there were cases that the colors of which the grades were entered in the registers were the reason for the decision or not the decisions that the inspections made. The third problem to pay attention to in the future when it comes to inspections is just the education and expertise of people who are inspectors. It is a highly sensitive system in which we have established this today and teachers and teachers are truly unprotected in all possible ways and status and reputation and their salaries etc. and then actually any situation that additionally burdens the whole system must be at least a satisfactory condition for people who analyze the inspection to be really professional in having the experience they really need to have the knowledge they need to understand the process deep inside, not to come from the road and then actually make potentially fatal decisions about things they don't know enough about. 4. The problem is also mentioned here and this announcement, although the law allows the inspection to come unannounced into inspection. However, experience tells us that this is most often not so and then in the situation of one inspection, it would often be necessary for it to be unannounced just to determine the real situation, rather than to determine the inkling, ironed state that occurred because the inspection was announced. And I'm going to end up with another problem that people have pointed out to me, which is, on the other hand, the inspections have problems with their solutions being disrespected. Therefore, the inspection takes a certain decision, the decision is then brought to the attention of the appeal which delays the execution of the decision, then it is necessary to form a committee at the level of the ministry to decide and then it has often happened since there is no prescribed time-limit for the commission to decide then it happened that, in fact, through this absence of a deadline and through the non-determination of the decision, the findings of the inspection are then never carried out because, for example, the term of office has passed, it is simply the time in which it could or should have been made. So, that the HNS supports, of course, this amendment to the law, but as I said and on that previous subject, we really have great expectations from you, and we hope that this topic of education inspection will very soon be a subject that we will then discuss more seriously and more closely so that we will all be together in that system and it seems that we all agree on which syllabus has a problem with its own dignity and with perception in the public that then and through that inspection system then the whole story starts from the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2341	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP club, representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2342	Dear Mr. Chairman, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As with previous law, the SDP club absolutely accepts this. I would refer only to some of the things that we have touched and in the last topic simply which school is obviously a topic of interest to this House. First of all, I'd just like to add one thing. Then when you mentioned the inspections that make some decisions in the directory for the wrong color. I have to say that this may be more relevant to counselors at the Education and Education Agency who when they come to school I was a witness to it, it's panic, not in the Chamber, but panic at the principal, and then the principal later washes teachers because they forgot to sign on one of the items for the hour held 12 weeks ago. I don't think it should be the role of counselors, so no educational inspection. The key thing about schooling for me, and that's what we've been missing for the past 20 years, I know it has nothing to do with the subject, but I would like to say that, is that all these 20 years we really haven't had a real strategy for the development of Croatian education. What I can say on behalf of the SDP club is that it will bring about this strategy that will be the basis not for the next 4 years but for the next many years and on this issue I absolutely support the deputy minister who has asked for a consensus here. The important question is that only one party, one man, would decide that, and I think that's what we've been missing all these 20 years. Because if we had this strategy for the development of Croatian education 20 or 15 years ago, we might now be a society that is less convulsing in problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2343	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, MP Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll pick up where my esteemed colleague Tomic left off. I really agree that we should have a consensus on the case of education, but unfortunately we have not had that in previous mandates. Perhaps there are good conflicts, not open conflicts and great conflicts as certain topics. Perhaps they should be even bigger because health education is something that really, really, really captures the public's interest, and that's good because on the basis of the education right now rests and the future of the whole country. When it comes to this law, and I will focus exclusively on this law, as in the previous law, this is indeed a law that I would say is technically in terms of the revision of what was passed by previous laws, as counterpart Lugaric said, the ones we brought here, but on the government's proposal on December 23rd, following that accelerated process of ours. The Law on Educational Inspection, and this is very much heard from our predecessors, is a very important segment in education because it is a segment that controls the legality of work both pre-school and secondary education and dormitories. So he's overseeing his own educational activity, and that's what I'd say about the management of the educational activity. Because other surveillance, and here it has been mentioned, is being carried out by advisers and by an independent institution that is increasingly becoming an important role in the education system, which is a national centre for external evaluation, which is very much through those national exams giving a picture of the quality of schools in some way. I think that in his development until finality he will have a very large and should play a crucial role not only in organising a state degree but also in improving education. In the changes to this law, you told the truth that he was technically, is technical because the administrations in the ministries were abolished, and thus the directors of the administration. I'd like to remind you that the directors of the board were selected for the competition. The proposed amendments to the law in Article 1 states that the Educational Inspection is set up as an independent, internal establishment unit of the Ministry. She was now management of the ministry as independently, but apparently she hurried about the change. And because of those previous laws and this law, it is said in Article 2 that the initiation of the inspection procedure is decided by the Head of the Educational Inspectorate or the Head of the Design Unit in the Educational Inspection, and in the event of the prevention of the Head of the Educational Inspectorate for that authority. Especially what's ringing in this is this term leader. Obviously that, I can even accept the ministry has not arrived to create an internal structure of its own, would it then be able to position that leader? The leader is something that's general. At what level will the leader be, whether he will be at the level of the assistant minister or head of some part or administration in the ministry from this is unknown to us. So we're also asking an open question why they were in a hurry with these changes until you've made changes to the ministry itself, would this leader who means one general name for all people who are handling something or some, then why have we put it as a leader, and not as a particular position that this leader will have. Here and that's why we're like a club really, I have to tell you as well as the previous law, skeptical. Because of that speed, as colleagues also said that there had been no changes to the Law on Educational Inspection for a long time, last year we changed it precisely on the demands of those people who were dealing with education and those shortcomings that were. So maybe because of the law, I know in the structure of the state body, it could wait a little while until you're a week and two, I don't know when, maybe you don't do it and you don't bring the interior structure of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2345	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. MP Vrbat Tanja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2346	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Deputy Minister Lugaric. I just want to look back on a short segment that covers this law. As we have said in the opening statements on behalf of the club, all noted that this is about technical change, the internal structure of your ministry's work, but I want to get to know the Croatian public with one problem that we are facing in the environments where bilingualism is respected and living. I come from an environment where there are many educational institutions, from preschools to highly educated Italian - language institutions. In other parts of Croatia, there are other educational institutions whose work takes place in minority languages. Therefore, I think it is necessary that the Educational Inspection be adapted to this. Namely, in the latest amendments to this law last year, which was published in "The People's Newspaper" No. 61/11. Article 8 states: The supervision of institutions carrying out education and education in the language and letter of members of the national minority shall be entrusted to an educational inspector, or to a senior educational inspector, who shall rule by language and letter of education, if necessary in view of the subject of supervision. This last part of the sentence was added to this amendment of the law from one problem I guess, and that's the problem with the staff because the inspection doesn't have the personnel who run those languages. However, I believe that if we are really going to respect the rights of national minorities and the constitutional law that regulates these rights, then I believe that members of the inspection that will rule those languages should also be foreseen. Because we had a case at the primary Italian school in Umag that the school was asked to move from Italian to Croatian all the documentation, all the curricula, journals, records from meetings of school boards, etc. which is an extremely long and expensive procedure that we do not think is necessary because Italian is the same as Croatian in use in our environment. It's probably also a problem of inspection in general, which in our court is a little bit concentrated. So I believe that and when it will be because in this particular case, the inspector came from Rijeka. If someone had been from Istria, he would have been able to do his job in Italian as well. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to take a brief look at these anonymous reports. I do feel personally that something needs to be anticipated in the future change of law. It is also not the subject of this amendment and the addition of the law. However, here I was encouraged by some colleagues before me. Anonymous applications in our country come to absurdity and so on in education. I guess that's what kids can do then and students can report, so we have cases where inspection surveillance is done on application because the teacher is too committed to fashion and has too many shoes and doesn't do well enough with her job and is not a good raiser for it. And then the inspection comes for that kind of application. I think it's really something crazy that needs to be regulated a little bit differently. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2347	Thank you very much. Next up for the debate, representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear deputies, colleagues and colleagues. I certainly believe that this structure of educational inspection as an independent internal establishment unit of the ministry is logical and that's good. However, I want this opportunity because it is an educational inspection to appeal to the Ministry for equalising the rules of conduct and interpretation on the ground in an educational inspection. This is also one of the problems that I have been working with in school for 13 years almost full of workmates, which is that an educational inspector has a certain situation or a certain perhaps irregularity interpreted differently in one city and different in another. I'll give you just one banal example, that because of one grade registered with a purple chemical inspector he warned and a colleague got a notice before she was fired, and in another school, the inspector said that green was very nice. I mean, that's one banal example. Of course, there are a lot more difficult situations. It would be good, then, to insist and to work on that educational inspection equally interprets every event on the ground. This creates a real confusion among educational workers, among professional services, directors, but also among parents and children because they themselves do not know what they are laughing or not, to which the educational inspection will react or will not react. I believe that this equality will lead to clear rules, better quality and timely resolution of certain problems and cases that may arise in any business. Also, I only have one sentence to relate to anonymous applications. They've become very, actually become a means of calculating someone with someone. We have numerous cases that they are actually a means of private conflicts where someone is calculating with someone. You might want to think about how and how to regulate it. I will also conclude with this that educational inspectors should still play an advisory role, so that they should guide and advise on what is not right, to correct themselves in a short time, in order to ensure that the teaching and the entire educational processes are as high as possible and in the better function of the students, parents and the employees themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2349	Thank you. Next representative of Ada Damianac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2350	Thank you. Being a teacher is a great honor but also an exceptional responsibility. Working in class is not a work on tape, and it can't be done and can't be wrong. In the class still working lovers of their work and enthusiasts who, when they decided to study teaching, became aware that they would be on the sidelines of society but accepted it as they accepted lifelong learning and lifelong education. Teachers are one of the few professions under continuous increase and supervision from children, parents, grandparents, directors to educational inspection. Educational inspection with regular surveillance has anonymous tip-offs, so it often happens that the inspection is supervised by banal things that create psychosis and a bad picture. I'll say under quotes when the inspection comes to such surveillance then combs the school along and across, and as a rule schools and teachers are always guilty. When supervision is carried out, if irregularities are found, then the two services have two different opinions and do not have the same interpretation of the law. It is therefore necessary to coordinate the interpretations. The inspection should also have a greater advisory role, not just a supervisory role. In supervision, clear criteria should also be established, not just formalist criteria. Because sometimes, or often, I'm going to say he's belittled and devaluing the teacher's work and he's the biggest mistake that the inspector finds if he doesn't have a teacher's adequate written preparation for what that inspector is looking for, and he doesn't see the teacher's work in the class, his achievements, his results and his children's achievements. Teachers need to be preserved, and educational inspection plays an important role in this. Let us also contribute to the fact that teachers can really say that it sounds proud to be a teacher because the role of teachers is very important for the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2351	Thank you. Replica, representative of Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, with your beginning of exposure, I couldn't agree more. I'm really also a long-time teacher and I've been from all levels, so here's to the MP. However, it seems to me that in your presentation very often, and I cannot refer to the presentation of my colleague before then, there are mixed surveillance terms, expert supervision in the class in the course of the course and the Educational Inspectorate. Educational inspection is doing administrative surveillance and she won't tell you what you've now pointed out that they often make mistakes, that you haven't done some things in class or that. It makes a solution by administrative procedure, usually gives a period of adjustment if something is not well done, wrong, then gives you what is under the administrative procedure and needs a certain deadline to fix it. I agree with you that there are sometimes different interpretations and not even supervisors, but educational inspectors about some of the provisions of the law, but I would like to do not interfere here in this House with the activity of those supervisors who come to oversee the work of teachers, professors and those inspectors who, and we are talking about them, about the Educational Inspection, overseeing the management of schools and taking certain measures, but also deadlines to correct these measures. Because it's simply in administrative procedure only as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2353	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2354	Thank you, colleague. Here's what I'm saying as a teacher in practice and 35 years of working in class, continuous work, and I'd like to bring it closer to the problem and make it clear to everyone that our inspectors are also very often chasing this notion and doing both of these things that are really in practice and happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2355	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Zeljko Sabo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2356	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, please pay attention because I will address you most often with some requests. In fact, a number of wolves have two birthdays. It's a birthday for me today, not at birth, but today I'm out of captivity. And all of these discussions that we had on the previous agenda about certain events, which are nevertheless the focus of events and the closest to Vukovar because we are at the border being special emotions in us, but will not stop us in the progress of good neighbourly relations and that we want to raise and educate our children the way we did. But I think the role of the Educational Inspection should just be its crucial meaning that the child, the students, is the students that are at the heart of the events. And here they talked about teachers, teachers, teachers who are not easy to teach, because through the very system of education, through all the opportunities provided to children or parents of children teachers, teachers can always get hurt. But as a child, I was afraid of a match, not from a teacher or teacher, but from a mother if a teacher or teacher said I wasn't good. There are fewer and fewer in our families today. I demand from you Deputy Minister to have the Educational Inspector come to the city of Vukovar in a hurry, to come to two schools. I don't know if it's a school, but it's "Nikole Tesla" High School, which is in renewal and we're 14 years old, and we've marked our birthday here on 15.01. the completion of the peace and integration process, and we still have two unrenewed schools in the town of Vukovar. "Nikole Tesla High School" where children are educated in impossible conditions and go to school. Cold, 5.6 depends on the outside temperature that they are not, in impossible conditions now more than 1 school year after the second school year they are educated. At the "Nikola Andric" elementary school where a statistician declares that school, which is also unrenewed, declares that school has no conditions for static. What will happen or where is this Educational Inspection that does not come to school and see and find and prohibit that school from being used and to see how children will certainly be educated? We in the town of Vukovar have, as a colleague also said, one way of education and schooling children. So we have a Serbian national minority who uses its opportunities and rights of education for children in that letter, the Serbian letter. When they come to Mayor Vukovar, I have many envoys and ambassadors of Croatia then ask me how I look at the separation of children in education in the city of Vukovar? What kindergartens, what elementary schools and high school. And I think that this question is certainly an Enlightenmental Inspection that needs to be given in a certain way to the minister and the ministry certain I would tell the advice from the field when it comes and when talking to parents or children in a way that we can upgrade that education of children to be together anyway, not to be separated through kindergartens, through elementary schools, and only to meet somewhere in college and suddenly at a university where miracles are normally studied and there are no problems. So I expect the Deputy Minister to come to the city of Vukovar for an emergency inspection at these two schools I've told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2357	Thank you very much. No one ever signed up for a hearing again. I'm closing the debate. Do you, Deputy? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2358	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs thank you for this debate and in its end I would like to highlight just a few things. I think it is clear to all of you that, in fact, in a simplified manner, and I ask you to excuse me for this simplification in the Croatian school system, there are four institutions of support to the school system itself. One part is carried out through the mandate of the Education and Education Agency and the Professional Education Agency, whose primary task is to assist teachers and teachers to do their job better and better. Another function or other institute is the professional pedagogical supervision carried out by advisers from the Agency for Education, Education and the Professional Education Agency, which must thus be monitored by that pedagogical part of the job whether it is doing well or not being handled in an optimal way. It's not an educational inspection's job, nor can it be an educational inspection's job. The third institute was, it seems to me that colleague Roksandić mentioned it, is what is done through the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which works for the external evaluation of an independent system which then gives certain results outside of an independent body for the improvement of the school system itself. And only the fourth inspection institutes whose powers are very clearly prescribed by law and whose work is exclusively and restricted to the control of legality. Whether a teaching unit is processed in one way or another, more optimally or not, it is not allowed and under the law is not the task of inspection but of advisers and supervisors from both agencies. Just so there's no misunderstanding what we're talking about here and whose job it is. Mr. Representative Chešek spoke of some irregularities, I ask you as well as my colleague Sabu, that all knowledge is also valid for the other MPs, who you have that there are indications for certain irregularities in Croatian schools, whether primary, secondary, adult education, kindergartens and small schools, that you are indeed responsible for your work and report to the educational inspection. The educational inspection must have some kind of paper and some kind of application, and we really need an application, so I'm asking you to use some kind of written address to the ministry or educational inspection. And there's no reason, the educational inspection has so far been going out on all the applications, going out still of course to check which ones they are but they're just saying, the requirement for an educational inspection must be explained, nevertheless based on certain facts and very clear conditions. There were words here about anonymous applications, the Institute of Obligation to conduct an inspection on an anonymous tip was introduced in 2011 into the Law and it is indeed necessary to consider whether the same weight is equal to any anonymous application. In some situations that have almost whistled, an anonymous application should be made possible, I must say to me personally as advocates in past mandates very often, parents who have prayed for anonymity because they feared for their children, not because they were malignuous, evil, because they wanted to wage some of their little wars, but were simply dared in justifiable fear for their children, and in one part should leave the possibility of an anonymous application. In one part, it really showed time to try to abuse it, we will really consider that in some way we give the possibility of an educational inspection to first assess what anonymous application it is, indeed, whistle nature from the position of child protection where it must also be allowed to act and which are purely related to some mainly local or school small wars that occur very often inside schools. Mr. Coleman, speaking on behalf of the club, said that the inspection was trapped in papers, the inspection must be trapped in papers because it was her job, overseeing legality and business. Now the second part that isn't about papers, I repeat part of the expert-pedagogical supervision and some other institutes that exist. Finally, Mrs. Roksandic spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, saying that we were in a hurry, etc. Madam MPs was not in a hurry, I think we can agree and that we should not, as a Government, convince the Croatian Parliament that legal certainty, order and respect of the law is one of the fundamental principles and solid points of foundation that we must all act in both the Government and the Executive Authority, but in the Croatian Parliament then ask all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia to do so. If we had first brought our own regulation into the inner structure that you were looking for, it would have been contrary to the law. She'd be against the law. We do not agree and we do not think that we should do the opposite of the law, so we had to first open the possibility in the law that our internal structure would be based on the law itself. And secondly, I'm glad that you all supported that the inspection is set up as an independent and independent unit because it's really all that matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2359	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2360	We move to a statement on the final draft law amending the Law on Educational Inspection, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 21. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes with 87 votes in favour, 34 against and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2361	and move to a new agenda point - Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The report was submitted by the Government on the basis of Article 3. The Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Justice. Do the proposing representatives want to further explain the proposal? If not, I'm opening a debate. Since there are no reports for the debate, the proposing representatives will not, I am concluding the debate on one item and the other item of the agenda we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2362	We move to a statement on the reports, on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is concluded, so I am voting in accordance with the proposals of the working bodies: a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of the legal authority. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes with 91 votes in favour, no one against and 35 abstentions adopted this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2363	We are moving to the next item of the agenda - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2010, Carrier: Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. You received the motions by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Academyman Paul Rudan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2364	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. On behalf of our most magnificent scientific and artistic institutions of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, let me submit a report on the work of the Croatian Academy, but for 2010, since the debate has not yet been held in 2011, and it is not shown in the session of the Parliament or the 2010 report even though it was delivered in April 2011. As you know in the tradition of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the results of scientific and artistic work are to the public, given that its main tasks are set out in Article 3. Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts: The Academy encourages and organises scientific work and advocates the application of the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities and cares for cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world, then publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation, and gives suggestions and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. I must draw your attention to the fact that members of the Assembly have all received 114 books of the Yearbook of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, this is not an activity of the Academy, this is a list of activities of regular, extraordinary, correspondence members, members of co-workers of various committees, institutions, museum-gallery units and other units within the Academy of Science and Arts. So this book that has been delivered to every member of the Croatian Parliament is just a list of our activities. The paper began printing and was published in 1877, this is 114 books. What I will show you now is the result of the work and report submitted by the previous administration, not the new administration headed by academicist Zvonko Kusic where I am honored to perform my duties and the mission of the chief secretary of the academy who took office and began work on 1 January 2011. So I'm talking about the results of the work of the old administration in 2010. On 31 December 2010, the academy had 137 regular members, 136 correspondence members and 91 co-workers. So a total of 364 members. They are not employees of the academy, because at the academy we have scientific workers, professional workers, employees in museum-gallery units, various institutions, centres, etc. which are on the payroll. This is a total of 272 people from 41 scientific recruits. These 364 members of the academy are not regular correspondence or co-workers in the system of payment or activity as employees of the academy. In 2010, the Academy held 4 congregations, two regular and two electoral sessions, and two formal sessions. In April, the regular congregation as well as each year in 2009 was all published in the 113th book of the journals, the results of those studies that were carried out. In December's regular assembly, plans were given to work at the Academy for 2010. Proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan, the Assembly also adopted a decision on amendments and additions to the Statute of the Croatian Academy. Nine new regular members, 8 new correspondents, 8 co-workers were elected at the May Electoral Assembly in 2010, and two co-workers were re-elected. At the election assembly elected, the assembly held in 2010 in the November new members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts presidency with the president of the Academy, Zvonko Kusic, and the administration took office on 1 January 2011. I must admit that the second session, the first one began on April 29th 2010, and the second one was held at the time when in June 2010, new members of the institution, which, on 29th of April 1861, Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer and members of the Croatian Parliament, declared the day of the establishment of the Academy, so the institutions called "Academia Scientiarum et artium laborum meradionalium". In 2010, the Bureau held 9 regular sessions where preparations were discussed for the election assembly on the framework programme of the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the foundation of the Academy, on the harmonisation of the provisions of the statutes with the provisions of the law, on the recommendation of the Academy to send a request to the Croatian Assembly not to accept the name of the Academy of Engineering Croatia, because the word Croatian Academy was awarded by law only to the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. There's a whole series of other Academy of Science. On the financial plan in 2010, on the results of the financial operations for 2009, on the statement and declaration proposed by the Philological Sciences class on the Croatian language, on the central Office of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the exemption of regular members from the obligation to register in the register for value added tax. Furthermore, on the proposal of the Office of the Republic of Croatia to regularly present the editions of our fantastic, fact-finding scientific and cultural achievement from which the 4th book you have next to the lady on the table is actually "Croatia and Europe" one fifth of our people and all citizens of Croatia, where from the beginning to the modern and until the end of the 20th century show the achievements of our peoples in these areas. It is clear that, on the proposal of the Office of the President of the Republic, it has been requested that these editions be delivered to a large number of different foreign representatives, their cultural institutions, ministries or embassies. The initiative was then discussed by Đakovakko-Osjek Archbishops for the protection of the rights and use of the name of the founder of the Academy of Bishop Josip Jurossmayer. I would like to say that his diocese was not the richest diocese but he gave money from his diocese to organize the academy, to build the academy building, to establish universities for both our people and for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to give a magnificent Gallery of old masters. Then on the judgment of the County Court, as he accepted the lawsuit of the works of the Academy's employees for the payment of the Christmas certificate since 2001, according to the accepted and valid collective contract, the academy was put in a position to settle the debt itself of 1.3 million kuna from its regular funds. It was also decided on 26 May that the open process of proposing candidates for members of the administration and then came to another conclusion of the Bureau of the Academy that members or workers working in different academic institutions do not pay fees for works published within the Academy's publications, because they fall into regular work and serve them to advance into different higher scientific or artistic titles. There was then a speech about preparing for the 150th anniversary, but I'll tell you all about it sometime after April when I file a report for 2011. These are the results from 2010. Then it was debated, given the fact that the media are not following us enough, and I am glad that it was discussed because the new administration headed by academic Kusic did as much as possible in the current structure of the academy to make the academy open to the public. We started with the Open Door of the Academy, we started with almost every week giving several lectures every Thursday, certainly in the library of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and I think that in 2011 we kind of approached the media and in fact the entire public who thus realized that the Academy was in the function of the people, not just a closed institution. I must admit that in 2009 the Croatian Parliament requested the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in its report that it is actually recommended to set up a class for visual arts and theatre and film art. With regard to the proposed proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture of the Croatian Parliament to introduce a new class for visual arts, ladies and gentlemen can inform you that a discussion is open at the Academy and that we are looking for solutions for these fields of science and art, and we will report the results in our new 2011 report. I would like to say, however, that in these 9 classes that exist in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts there are also those who deal with visual art. For example. Academist Batušić, who unfortunately left us a year ago, followed by academic Bouret, then a member of Mrs. Popiš Baldani's Academy, a member of Professor Senker and others. The Academy also participated in discussions on the National Framework Curriculum Proposal, on drafts of the Law on University, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Science, on measures proposed by the Administration in connection with the reduction of material costs, on a multi-annual dispute with the Modern Gallery on the determination of property rights over art that remained in possession of a modern gallery after its exit from the Academy system. In fact, it is often heard in the media that the academy is asking to take some of the bodies that are exposed at the academy and thus will no longer be available to people to watch them. That fellow, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. But the academy has stored over 1200 different works in the premises of the gallery, the modern gallery. It is clear that we do not want to transfer it to the academy building because at the academy we have a beautiful gallery which is actually Strossmayer's gallery of old masters, but we are obliged to make a simple audit and to look at, we are obliged to make an inventory, which works in the modern gallery exist, which are eventually borrowed somewhere. So if every year someone comes to me like, last year I'm done with that term, the director of the institute, and my assistants come to me inside that committee to do a review of what's in my study, I have to let them do it and they write down what's in my room and they say, "It's all right." We also ask that the modern gallery list the works that exist in the modern gallery, owned by the academy. It is not ladies and gentlemen owned by the Academy, it is owned by the Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and there must be a normal review of what exists, which is borrowed somewhere and that we have documented it. In addition, plans of the Croatian Academy for 2011, the 2011 Financial Plan proposal, the marking of an important anniversary of 150 years, and the sponsorship and organisation of a number of scientific conferences on human rights issues, as well as the selection of scientific and research calls of the staff of the Academy were discussed. The Foundation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, for which a million and 486 thousand kuna were provided from the national budget for 2010, was, in fact, the minimum amount of funding for the Foundation, the foundation worked perfectly in 2010 and the foundation's basic assets were increased to 4 million 802 thousand 838 euros and 3 million and 800 thousand kuna of armed funds. From the foundation itself, a total of approximately part of 93 projects were funded in science and research, i.e. the activity in the form of a press release, these projects were proposed by the organisation and individuals, and in 2010 the funds were allocated from the Dragutin Tadjanović Academy Fund. As far as the Academy's committees are concerned, the academy has increased its scope, the international scope of work in 2010 on various international projects. We have also worked hard to make it into the research and joint programme for humanities in the European Research Area as part of HERA. The bilateral co-operation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was very well conducted in view of cooperation with the academics in Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Iran, China, Kosovo, Hungary, Macedonia, Germany, Poland, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and Great Britain. A new agreement was also signed with the Romanian Academy of Science and a letter of intent with the Academy of Science of the Republic of Korea. Editorship of the editions Croatia and Europe. The pentateuh, the beautiful last book so far has been printed in 4 books since 1991: the first was "The Early Age of Croatian Culture", the second "The Middle Ages and Renaissance", the third "Barok and Enlightenment", the fourth here is "Modern" and is now in the fifth preparation of Croatia and Europe, the 20th and 21st centuries. This 5th book of Croatian peoples and all Croatian citizens is a magnificent venture, a venture that has united hundreds and hundreds of scientific workers, teachers, cultural workers, to truly show what has been created in these areas in the last 1500 years. We can be proud of that. And I am pleased that academician Ivan Supičić, who was the editor-in-chief for this edition on 5 June 2010, presented the diplomatic choir at Brijuni, and on 9 July the edition was also presented to participants in Croatia's summit in Dubrovnik. It's clear we'll be in '11. A year to publish the fifth book. These books are also translated and published in French and English. As for the pearls of the academy, owned by the Academy that is Arboratum in Trieste, it is protected from that possible fire that has just reached it at one point. There was a reconstruction of certain parts, we received construction permits in 2010 to renovate the site... from the water supply system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The project is also completed... Resuscitation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The property protection and maintenance service has in some way been renovated in view of the potential celebration of the 150th anniversary of the academy. The palace of the Academy in Zrinski Square and a system of building elevators has been introduced. Many say it's the elevator needed for old academics. My colleagues, I don't consider myself an old academic. And as I said yesterday on the board, it's not about old academics. It's also for us young academics who have cross problems. Thus, this elevator system has now allowed normalness in all possible situations to come to the first floor, that is, our second - floor gallery. They're also renovated. I have to admit the necessary sanitary nodes. It also marked a future celebration of the 150th anniversary with some art projects, i.e. ventures in some basic institutional buildings. The activities of the academy take place in 9th grade, in 19 units and 15 scientific councils. It's all very good in the Chronicles. I have to tell you that the academy isn't just a building on Zrinjevac no. 11. Academy of scientific units, centres, gallery different institutions are located from Vukovar, Vinkovac, Osijek, Bjelovar, Požega, Varazdin, Rijeka, Pula, Zadar, Split, Korčula, Makarska, Trsten, Dubrovnik and Cavtat. Therefore, it is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts from the southeast to the southwest, from the northeast to the northwest. Therefore, the academy is not just a building of the Academy in Zrinjska Square. I have to tell you that also within the Academy, 41 are being implemented in that year, a scientific project that was so called. the parent project financed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, i.e. culture. The quality assessment, i.e. the continuation of these projects from 1 January 2011 10 projects were removed, i.e. 11 so that a total of 30 projects were financed in 2011. As far as employees at the academy are concerned, that's a total of 2031 employees plus 41 scientific recruits. The question is, what about that scientific money? As far as science money is concerned, which is specifically educated for certain activities. Let's say reconstructions of old manuscripts from 14 and 15. For centuries. These people can't be found on the labour market, and they're educated fantastically as part of the academy's activities. Please help with that. The question is also raised, given what some museum-galery units have been doing. For example, there were 24 exhibitions, 4 presentations and a series of other events, concerts, charity auctions, presentations, etc. And it was also connected to that "Night Museum" action. In the office of graphics 9 exhibitions and "Night of the Museum". In Strossmayer's gallery of old masters, an uninterrupted gallery is open except one day a week and participates in "The Night of Museums". In 2010 the Croatian Museum of Architecture presented 2 exhibitions accompanied by appropriate catalogues and in public appropriately commented. The archive and library are completely renovated. The digitalized and computerized total activities continued and the study and processing of 18th century Glagolitic documents, the collection "Acta Croatica", and the production of Latin transliterations from the IM from 19th. For centuries and yet it continues. I invite you ladies and gentlemen, Friday is Museum Night from 6 p.m. till midnight, and all the gallery units, and the central building of the academy itself, will be open to you. Come along with the other citizens. A list of the Academy editions was completed in the library. The total library fund in 2010 was increased by 1213 volumes, books and 664 title magazines, 3 newspaper titles and 4 network databases. What's interesting is that in exchange, 2700 notebooks went, and we donated, and as we give... They were numerous city and smaller national libraries, then university, museum and monastery libraries, and organ libraries as Croatian and related institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry it's 2009. The Ministry of Culture refused to co-finance digitisation within our academy in 2010, so we digitized additional 18985 pages of the following publishing series: Diplomatic Chamber, Old Writers of Croatia, National Life and Customs, History of Croatian Literature, Monuments Spectata historiam Slavorum meridionalium and Starina. 15 scientific councils worked in the academy for remote research, for oil, for transport, maritime, energy, agriculture and forestry, economic research and the Croatian economy, natural and scientific research of the Adriatic, technological development, peace and human rights, public administration, justice and rule of law, tourism, construction, foundations and restoration and development. So we can't say that the academy is a nursing home that some bad people say. But it's sad to talk about the academy like that. What's the point of talking about the academy like that? For what? Because we know very well that the attempt to establish an institution and university in these poor, abandoned spaces back in the 19th century, and it was refused to get permission from the Imperial Office in Vienna for us to get our own academy here for two years. We succeeded after the fall of Bach's absoluteism 29. April 1861. Years at the Croatian Parliament after the speech of Josip Yuri Strossmayer to establish this magnificent institution. Academia Scientiarum et Artium Slavorum Meridionalium. But only after five years came approval from Vienna to be accepted. But we're here and we're staying. Thus, this report clearly shows that the academy is a home of vital people. Remember that Račka, who died in the 103rd year of life from the academic Bratulić in his 90th year of life, prayed for his Latin dictionary and Latin grammar to be delivered to him to study. So let us remember what Strossmayer said, the only enlightened people is the free people, and the Academy's mission is to help this within all the premises of our national corps, but also the Corps of all those whose home is Croatia. As for the 2009 Financial Report, I must tell you that the Academy has received 74 million 217 thousand and 402 kuna and 89 June, from the state budget 80.44% of the ministry's income intended for the achievement of individual projects 11.13%, its own revenues from the Academy 5.13% and from the budget of the local administration and the donation of 3.30%. Here is Mr. Mayor of Vukovar and I am very proud to have met him now, at least this way not personally yet, but I am pleased because Vukovar is well aware of the situation this part of our homeland has decided to help establish the Institute of the Academy in Vukovar and helps even with its own resources. So I thank you, Mr. Mayor. It has been done in part and a step to understand, see and accept us in the media. Yesterday, I was a little naughty, so I said on the board that if two academics were to be, say, my former student, who is here, and I got into a fight on the stairs of the Academy, it would have been written in every newspaper on the front page for a few weeks. Unfortunately, we won't fight, but we have clearly shown by our work what this Academy means in these areas. And I get you... Vivat Academy! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well done, I think. Therefore, I, and what vivat professores I have not heard, would also like to hear. Therefore, I thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, on behalf of all those who understand that the biological age and the real age of years are not identical. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2365	Thank you very much, academic Rudan, for this exhaustive, inspired report. On behalf of the board, do you report to the board? Here you go. Mr. Boluncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2366	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Here we were at our board meeting yesterday on the HAZU's agenda. I am here because we have heard in detail the HAZU Report from the secretary of the HAZU Academy Officer, Mr Rudan, I would just like to point out that we had an opinion that you received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which accepts the HAZU report, however, states some possible guidelines. One of them relates to the reduction of material costs, hence the rationalisation of the business, which should certainly be pointed out that this should not affect projects financed by the ministry. As the report refers to 2010, members of the Academy yesterday, so President Kusic and academician Rudan said there was a decrease in costs already in 2011. The second part, that we might be bound to this final part, was the fact that the average age is 75 years and something, that it is still considered to be a little too large an average age because it is just, I say, the average, and it is also suggested that perhaps the ratio of certain staff in the administration as well as the number of employees in scientific, let's say, is too small of that ratio in terms of there being too much administration. And it is also stressed that, of course, not with such an example as was said in a joke, but that the Academy should open more widely to the media and the general public, as members of the Academy yesterday at the department in the Parliament said both that it was working among other things and that it was marking the 150th anniversary of the Academy on other activities. So, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture accepted the Academy's report at yesterday's session as well as the opinion of the competent government and with 11 votes in favour, so it was unanimous, the Croatian Parliament is proposed to accept the report on the work of the HAZU for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2367	Thank you. It's a debate on behalf of the clubs. Igor Coleman is a representative of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear academician Rudan, dear colleague and colleague, this is the last time I promise today about the debate on behalf of the club. First one general note - today is 26.01.2012., the report we are discussing is the 2010 Report. There are, of course, objective circumstances why this debate may not have been held before, and at the end of the day, and it did not happen in this assembly, but since the last days and last time we have mentioned the importance of both these institutions and the knowledge and sciences, etc., one of the ways in which this institution's dignity is preserved is to preserve the dignity of other headquarters institutions, to use the words of academic Rudan. So, I'm just appealing and asking for things to be discussed in the future at the moment when they're current, at the moment the administration that report submitted is still in the clear so as to preserve, as I said, the integrity of the institution that filed the report. As far as the report itself is concerned, we do not have any specific objections, with the full acceptance of the comments made by the representative, or the chairman of the committee, so the Government's observations and everything mentioned here. However, I would briefly refer to one of these remarks, and this is the opening of the Academy to the media. That's where we have to figure out two things. Are we talking about writing about the Academy in the media or do we want science to be written in the media, about art? And it seems to me that the problem that we have in Croatia right now is the status of science, especially science, but also the art in the public especially in our public media. There are two, sort of extreme situations. One is total trivialization up to the level of truly prosaclysm. So science is shown in that tabloid sense there will be explosions or bacteria will escape from the lab or it's ultimately ghettoized, there's actually no science in public media, there's no real information, not even our public television almost pays attention to science at all. And here it seems to me that it is actually a place for the Academy and that maybe that direction to turn to the media is the direction to turn to us that we all work together to get a stronger, smarter place in our society, in our public debate, science has in some way mirrored the spirit of one nation, we are a young state, we have to be proud of having great achievements in this area and therefore if there is something that I in the name of the HNS Club and in my personal name suggested to our academy, it is to launch a project and to work with other institutions to try to explain to people the processes that occur, we are constantly surrounded by physics, medicine, everything that happens to us in our lives all this science can explain and this voice of science is not heard by the Croatian public. And therefore my request and my suggestion and the academy and us here in various ways to work on, that one way to build our country is to make the voice of knowledge a stronger voice and to get the right place in our society and then through those worldly things, the financing of projects, the working conditions of scientists and all that comes but at the moment when the status of science itself is at that level that it deserves and that which we all ultimately deserve in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2369	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP Club, representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2370	Mr. Vice President, distinguished academics Rudan, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the 2010 report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Arts and Sciences. And at first, I want to say on behalf of the SDP Club that, as we have done so far, we will support the Academy's annual report. In the debate on the work of the HAZU, we want to look at the good and less good aspects of this report and the work of the Academy. Trust our support to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and suggestions, remarks, criticisms, issues we want to help further strengthen the role of the Academy in Croatian society. Because the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is an institution of exceptional national importance for us. I would remind you at the beginning of her vision, of her mission which was also written in the Statute of the Academy but also in the Law on the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The vision of the Academy is the Croatian Society of Science and Science. The mission is to include Croatian science in the European and world scientific flows, a permanent incentive to increase investment in science and research as well as care for Croatian cultural heritage and absolutely its affirmation in the world. The vision and mission of the academy sound good and excellent, however, Croatia's reality is far from being good or excellent. Croatia has indeed been extremely worrying for a long time, Croatian society has been stagnating, and the knowledge society has unfortunately become one of the slightly unwanted flossules that everyone has started to avoid. Knowledge and science seem to have yet to become the true priorities of this society and state, it seems that science and knowledge must yet become drivers of social and economic change in Croatia. Our expectations from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are really high and I think it's justified. HAZU is a headquarters, Croatian cultural and scientific institution and it is logical that we expect much from it. We especially expect the Academy's contribution now, today and in those areas that are extremely important for Croatia's future at the moment. The responsibility of the Academy in these times of crisis and turbulence seems to be even greater than in times without crisis, if we even remember. I would say that it is high time that the state and all its institutions began to function fully in the interest of Croatian citizens, in the interest of development, in the interest of the progress of society as a whole, in the interest of the Croatian economy, better, better quality of life, better standards of Croatian citizens. The Academy is often resented that it is inert, slightly three, slightly unproductive, closed and conservative, it is resented to be silent about very important current social problems, that it should be much more engaged in solving the accumulated social problems in Croatia, and we really do not lack them, will you, from privatisation irregularities, commercialisation of education, health privatisation, reforms in the education system, the health of the nation, energy strategy, etc. It resents the academy's lack of influence on the promotion of science, research, innovation, development, and its objection to the slowness in modernising the academy as an institution. She is also resented for not propagating in her work what we call social responsibility, expertise, scientific excellence. How does HAZU respond to all this? The HAZU responds that there is a kind of media blockade of the academy, that the media is insufficiently monitoring the very busy work of the academy. Here we have to admit that there is no problem agreeing with academic Kusic when he says, unfortunately we live in an era of esthetration and spectacles and that a lot of things have become yellow for media space to be occupied by people who know everything about everything and give flat-rate statements about everything and everything. And it's serious scientists very foreign. For serious thesis and reflections says academic Kusic simply has no place in the media space. So it's not hard to agree with this finding of academics. Maybe the media isn't really interested in the work of the academy. Maybe the academy and what it does and has to say is just not interesting. That's probably how it is. However, we at the SDP club believe that the academy must jump both to the Croatian reality. She has to find a way to become recognizable in public, she just has to do it. He has to find a way to reach out to the public. If there is no interest in the media, and it does not seem to exist, then it must use some other opportunities, the possibility of publishing on the Academy's website at least summary or conclusion discussions, meetings, so why not appeals, and attitudes, and recommendations, thinking. So we believe that by dealing with important, social issues, the academy should publish reasoned press releases. In this context of getting to the public, we are pleased to support the opening of the academy, opening the door of the academy, opening to the general public, because it is true that a large part of Croatia does not even know where the academy is, even less, the task of the academy, which is why 60 to 80 million kunas are spent on the annual level. So we believe that the initiative of the new leadership of the academy that has launched numerous and various cultural events, the literary evenings with the aim of opening up to young and students above all is extremely good. We believe it's the beginning of a new period for the academy and we'd like it to be so. We expect the academy to be even braver, to be braver by policy if you will, even more courageous and open to the government. As I said, her responsibility in times of crisis is greater than otherwise, and her voice must be heard absolutely. The Academy must reach not only citizens but also those who have the political power to pass laws, to change things, to bring strategic direction towards the country's development. The Academy must simply impose itself as what it really is or should be, which is a Croatian, national, intellectual elite that is considering strategic directions for development of the Republic of Croatia. The way they did it, for example. In 2002, 2004, when they came out with fantastic documents such as the Declaration of Croatia on the threshold of the third millennium or the Declaration of Knowledge. The declaration of knowledge was supposed to be an outstanding contribution to the awakening of Croatia's reality and Croatian set-up right in the field of knowledge, research, science etc. Two documents with extremely many potentials but not sufficiently promoted in public, which unfortunately remained just a dead letter on paper. One very specific remark. The Academy would easily agree to promote scientific excellence through its public word but not only through word, but through its works. And it is commendable that every year the academy finance or financial support a number of scientific research projects in 2010 because we are talking about it. With a million, 185 thousand kuna, the Academy financially supported 93 scientific research projects. We think it's justified to ask a question, what can be done about 12.5 thousand kuna per project in scientific and research activities, but it's actually a much more important question whether we encourage scientific excellence in this way? So perhaps the academy could consider a slightly different distribution of financial resources available for that purpose. I am extremely pleased to say on behalf of the club that we heard here that the academy started and opened a debate on something that this House considered extremely important, which was discussed several times by the Committee on Science, Education and Culture and addressed the recommendation to the Academy, which is, as the academic said, the founding of the 10th class. We hope that we will soon learn the result of this debate, but above all we hope that what we have will happen almost in all the Academys of the World, which is the class for visual art, or theatre and film, will be an integral part and our academy. I also want to highlight some of the good things that happened at the academy in 2010. The whole story of the fourth book "Croatia and Europe" has been printed, and this is the most complete representation of Croatian cultural heritage. The Academy organized a whole series of scientific and professional meetings, especially on the topic of the Energy Strategy, published numerous publications. It is certainly necessary to highlight the more intensive international cooperation of the Academy. We think it's commendable and good that our academy is working with a number of other academys. Let me get this straight. We at the SDP club believe that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is in some way the social consciousness of Croatia. What is missing is, in that we all agree, I think a higher degree of openness to the current problems of society. So we expect the HAZU to turn its expertise into an analytical and critical thought in the function of what, the development of society. We find that extremely important. It's a function of society's development. In other words, the scientific authorities we have at the academy should open the process of creating the authority of science because of course it is a prerequisite for development. And another important question is how to dynamic and how to make what is sublimed as knowledge in the academy classes more transparent in order to be applicable in policymaking. So maybe it's a little bit of a problem not to recognize the possible contribution of academics to the process of making important decisions in society. In this process, we believe that it is extremely important to include members of the academy. And when it comes to Croatia's development strategy, Croatia's future, its prosperity, the most important social, economic, political issues, the attitude of the academy is extremely important. He needs to be heard, but of course what is heard needs ultimately and understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2371	Thank you very much. We're finishing up, we're interrupting a brief discussion. Namely, I'm setting a break by 3:00. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mr. Boro Grubisic, then on behalf of the club Mr. Giovanni Sponza next, after the break, after 15 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2372	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. The words were reported by respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A special welcome to the distinguished professor of academics Mr Rudan, otherwise my professor during the course of his studies at the Medical Faculty, and indeed how he remained in a nice light at the presentation and interpretation of this report, so I also stayed in a nice light when studying at the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb. The report on the work of the Academy for 2010 is here to put it summed up, but we got the book before that so to say in which much better explains the work of the Academy both in the field of science and in the field of art. The text, which is before us, explains the basic data on the membership of the Academy, then on the work of the Academy Presidency, the session of the Academy, and on briefly on the activities of the Academy which last year marked, in the last year, the 150th anniversary of existence, the foundation and in which it was indicated that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts was a roof scientific and artistic national institution that existed since 29.4.19 when the great bishop, Mecena Josip Juraj Strossmayer, held his famous speech in the Croatian Assembly and thus established legal foundations for the draft of the Academy. Considering everything that's going on right now, I'm not saying I'm an academic, too. Rudan mentioned in his speech, and in connection with the actions of Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer, that I do not count that I am not wasting my time listing really everything that he left for this Croatian people and gave to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, whose headquarters is in Zagreb, and has developed into a scientific institution with 20 scientific and research and artistic units throughout Croatia. So here in the material are also mentioned suits in Osijek, Požega, Dubrovnik, and here is the initiative for Bjelovar, as far as I can see for making lexicons of Bjelovar-Bilogorski. But I must also remind that Bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer had diocesed to say the full 55 years or chaired in Djakov. And that's why I'd like a professor and academics, Dr. Rudan and in some ways asked him or at least so little to remind him that this now archbishop seat, the heart of Slavonia our noble Slavonia and the noble Đakova in some way, given the memory and praise of our Joseph Jurj Strossmayer, who had been there for 55 years, perhaps a department or something like that, depending on the organizational forms of the Academy, the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, it was good to have, that it existed in Đakov. So, just for those two reasons. One is the geographical and historical heart of Slavonia, the noble Đakovo and the other is the founder of the Croatian Academy and Bishop Josip Juraj Strosmayer who acted, chaired at the now archdiocese headquarters in Đakov for 55 years. The Academy is in Zagreb, but does not mean that one step can be taken for these two reasons, especially because Strossmayer's Djakovo deserved it. In conditions where money is always in need mainly in the 2010 financial report and final account for 2010, so the Croatian Academy of Science has achieved total incomes of 74 million 217 thousand 402 kuna, and when compared to some perhaps better, let us call it better times or better years, so it is a slightly reduced amount compared to earlier years. So that is why all the achievements that have been called here, saidly by the work of the Presidency of the Academy, then on the publications of the Academy, on scientific works, on the work of the Committee on International Cooperation, the foundations of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, then on the creation of an edition of Croatia and Europe just before Croatia's entry into the European Union. Then work on restoring Arboretto Tristeno, working on rebuilding the building itself, so the palaces of the Academy in Zrinski Square and other works and works of the Academy really does not object to this report and will accept it with this little request to consider this proposal so that Đakovo, the archdiocese seat and Strossmayer's town, so we can say freely, will get one department of the Academy. I was at the last, when the 2009 report was held at the debate in the 6th session, so in the previous session of the Parliament, it seemed to me that even the only one had called for the opening of the Academy, but not in what someone said here trivially, so that, like I don't know, I don't know the science-fantastic stories spoken in the newspapers or in the media, but in the very sense that my colleague, it seems to me from HNS Coleman, that exactly the popularity and knowledge of the Academy's work would be available if I didn't tell the widest layers, but at least to those who can read, who can and can read what the Academy does. The Academy report itself or, for example, members, résumés or I don't know what there is no need to, it can be learned from the web pages, but about the work itself, about the content, about the substrate, about what the Academy has done and also about the work of other universities in Europe and the world should be written about the wider media. About the successes of our members of our Academy, Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and in relations with European and world relations. For this reason, I repeat once again, the HDSSB club will support the 2010 HAZU Report. Thank you very much. Professor, another special greeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2374	Thank you very much. A respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza, applied for the debate. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2375	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Rudan's distinguished academics, dear colleagues and colleagues. The club of representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly accepts the 2010 Croatian Academy of Science and Arts Report. On page 5, the report on its work, HAZU, lists the multi-annual dispute with the Modern Gallery on the determination of ownership of art, and why the respected academic in his opening report today, so I am free to present on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club concerns about the events that the public in Istria is really paying attention to, and this is about the judicial dispute that was started in 2010 between the HAZU as a prosecutor and the Ruđer Boskovic Institute in the role of the defendant, which is related to the Marine Research Centre building in Rovinj, where the HAZU lays down the right and seeks the eviction of the Marine Research Centre. In order to make it easier to understand the weight, and also the level of the problem itself, I'm going to bring up a few trusts of very useful data. The very building of the Rovinj Sea Research Centre, which is the subject of the dispute, is one of the oldest European institutions of this kind, one of the fundamental cultural and scientific components of the history of Rovinj, which was built in 1891, on one of the most beautiful and most attractive rural coastal areas. In these 120 years, many prominent names of European scientific circles have performed their valuable research work that is both demanding and long-lasting, which certainly requires seriousness, denial, effort, which is aimed at new discoveries, towards new knowledge actually to understand the nature of life in all its forms in the area of zoology and botany. On the basis of a request from the then Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts, Rovinj is a city of Rovinj in 1953, the right to manage properties in which the Institute of Research of the Sea transferred to the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts with the obligation to use the property exclusively for scientific purposes of the Institute of Biology of the Sea in Rovinj. It was also agreed by the above decision that in the event they stop serving for scientific purposes, the Academy is obliged to return to Rovinj. Today, according to spatial-planned documentation, the property concerned can only be used for scientific and research purposes only. Today there are several well-equipped laboratories that employ 60 people of which 28 doctors of science and 12 scientific recruits. I believe that it is not really necessary to stress the contributions and results of their scientific research and projects that have been launched, and therefore I would like to stress that today's intervention and reflections of the IDS Club are not directed against the HAZU but solely in favour of the preservation of the tradition and importance of the Centre for the Research of the Sea, which counts for 120 years. I will allow myself on this occasion to say that it would really be irresponsible for one scientific institution to force another scientific institution to emigrate, which has marked numerous and important scientific research in its 120 years of existence. I will also allow myself to express myself independently of what has been initiated by the Court dispute at the IDS Representatives Club, we keep both responsible and competent, and I am wise to address this issue in an agreed and peaceful manner and that of all stakeholders. From the restoring ministry, HAZU, Ruđer Boskovic Institute and Rovinj City always in favour of science and to confirm through this example that we really are a society of knowledge and that we really want to be a society of excellence. And what I would especially like to stress is that all the speculations that are really present in the Istrian public are removed because of the value of real estate located on one of the most beautiful and attractive areas in Rovinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2376	Thank you very much. It was an exposure on behalf of the IDS club. The next speaker on behalf of the HDZ Club is Honored Representative Zeljko Reiner. The club and the respected representative lose the right to discuss this topic. Let's move on. Next, a respected representative, Ivan Grubisic, applied for a 10-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2377	I would first like to congratulate the Academy on the 150th anniversary of the recognizable work in history, science and art in the Croatian people. Secondly, it's a little bit of a concern that science is in today's position at all and even what the academy is doing, because science today should not be a purpose for itself, which is not exclusive, but I think that science and the academy in the social context of the event should be as much as it can be the engine of the development of applied knowledge and help the society in which it works and does so in the best way, and there is no exception to science we can overcome the temptations that we live as a people today. Of course you would expect it as good advice that the academy is trying to re-establish itself somehow for more efficient work in today's challenges in a way that I know they are and I'm going towards those years, because I'm already here, that the average life age of our academics is about 77 years, which is the age for retirement and not for an active work. Well, it wouldn't be bad if the Academy were to stimulate our younger scientists from different areas and especially those who today are threatened with the crisis to receive younger, capable people in their ranks, while still in the working age and course, and that perhaps older members of the Academy would be eternal honorary members of the Academy, and to introduce a category of younger members who would contribute through institutes and modern ways of research to contribute to Croatia at this time in which the crisis is more successful. It is a proposal for a reorganisation that should come from the Academy rather than impose it but that it itself realizes that today's challenges are such that it needs to be changed over time, the union mutant nose mutamur, everything changes and we must change and look for more efficient ways to act. So I would recommend a category of younger people at the academy who can meet the challenges by creating, and that those who were in time later stay in the Academy for life in the way of life members. I consider it a conclusion that we need science and excellence but that would not be our own purpose but that we need applied science and I would recommend it to our Academy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2378	Thank you very much. The next colleague, the respected representative Sonja König, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2379	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary General of the Academy, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I'm going to repeat some of the thesis, some of the facts that my predecessors have said, but for the sake of the Academy that we're talking about here today, I think some ideas should be subdued more than once. As far as the activities of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are concerned, they are truly thoroughly presented here, and I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all academics and academics who have achieved a respectable number of projects and works with which unfortunately our citizens, our wider public are still poorly familiar despite the Academy's initiatives and efforts to change this. Speaking of academics, I regrettably regret that there are fewer than 10% in its membership, and in the presidency membership of its highest statute, none. So I recommend to the Academy that it critically analyzes the sexual structure and does everything to make that disproportionate change. Our greatest minds are gathered at the Academy, considered the most important scientific and artistic institution. Therefore, it is not surprising that a large number of people rightly expect her position, expects her to participate actively in the construction of Croatia's future, expects it to be a correction of our social events, but unfortunately, unlike Western European countries whose family we will soon join our academy is very rarely declared on social, burning issues and problems. Franjo Rački, the first president of the Academy, said that she would not cultivate science ideally but for the benefit of the people and for the benefit of the community. I think we are often not even aware of what huge resources we have and it is not surprising that we use it too little and especially our younger citizens, and it is not surprising that we use it too little because we are not even aware of it because such institutions are often not attractive, media like you said do not jump from happiness to calls, to press conferences when publishing some scientific projects or works, and they are not even present on social networks. The popularity of science and knowledge is extremely important, it is a long-term process for which it is needed and it is necessary to use all possible means and tools especially those that will bring knowledge closer to our younger colleagues of HAZU is in possession of some invaluable exhibits, for example. "Tomato Tooth", "Anthological Drawing of Julius Klović" from the middle of the 16th century, the famous violin "King", not to mention the "Bascan Tablet" most famous, one of the most famous monuments of Croatian literacy. But the academy must not be a museum of Croatian science and culture, it must be a hotspot, an epicenter from which everything that is good in Croatian art and science, it must be an authority that will help our citizens to take stock of the rich past and turn to the future. I would like to take a brief look at and recently updated dispute over the ownership of artistic paintings between the HAZU and the Modern Gallery dating back to 1990. I will not enter here into the legal measure that exists in this long-standing dispute over more than a thousand works of art, but I will say that it is irresponsible and unacceptable for two institutions of national importance to spend taxpayers' resources, spending the resources of our citizens instead of agreeing to settle disagreements that would avoid possible million-dollar court costs. This would really show how serious and respectable institutions are. But what's really important is that these works are taken care of in an adequate way, that they show themselves to the public and that the Academy of Science and Arts is at the benefit of the community because that's what the institutions are for, to be of service to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2380	Thank you very much. The next representative respected Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić has the right to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear academic Rudan, I am pleased to meet you again in this way and as Mr Boro Grubisic mentioned before and I have had contacts with you for some student or postgraduate days. In your opening statement, you mentioned that it was actually the most magnificent institution, and it is no wonder that we felt all of you a pride when, of course, the aim of affirmation and heritage and knowledge, or that of Strossmayer on "One Enlightened People is a Free People". Therefore, we agree, and we all agree that this is of national importance to our HAZU. When we look at the five books of the Croatian people where it has collected a thousand and a half years of history all of our heritage, or most of our heritage in this form, written. And I am also glad that one way will be to work on a stronger and greater approach to the public is to see it through the media, which is to introduce it in another way to bring our fellow citizens closer to sending that real message that it is in the function of the people, not to its own purpose. This report of yours shows that it has been a successful year in all fields and in the work of all academic classes, as well as in construction renewal requirements. You've listed all those scientific gatherings so I don't repeat myself now, and you've also given us a financial report showing that you have funding from the state budget at 80.44%. You and your colleagues spoke about the list of activities you want to do, but I suggest and wonder if there is a list of properties? We didn't see anywhere in the report whether there was a real estate list. The expectations of the HAZU report are high. I also welcome the information that you have stated that you have young scientists because we know the situation of science in Croatia and that money for young scientists goes to the dropper. So I'm undermining it, and I welcome it again. I daren't suggest to you how you receive members of the HAZU only as a citizen, and as well as a representative to ask how there are no other names of our own, let's say, in the medical research class as well as Djikić and Radman, Professor. Laber, I don't know now maybe we'd still have to list celebrities who certainly deserve such honor. I would also ask you about Ruđer Bošković's year and he was expensive in Dubrovnik, he was president of the Academy of Science and Arts of Austria even Hungary. We know that they do forums of science and knowledge every two years, but our president was not in Dubrovnik at the event. I'd look back on only one segment today. Since I'm from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I'm going to talk about Arboretum Tristeno. You yourself mentioned that it was a pearl owned by an academic. This report shows that local building permits for various projects that are planned in the arboretum and water supply and electrification are also part of the geological recovery of the southern slope of the arboretum after the rock collapse. Also for colleagues and the public, I will just say a few things because I think the arboretum deserves it, that it is the only arboretum on the Croatian coast, that it is the oldest Croatian monument of garden architecture, that it is after many years still in '48. the year came into possession of the Academy of Science and Arts and that then our prominent experts had determined somewhere to develop for the future of the entire arboretum, so that, apart from the summer house and the historical perivoj, he had also been joined by agricultural cultures, or a large area for agricultural cultures, etc. So there was this one arboretum that was a protected cultural and historical value. And now that you look at that arboretum in its space it has a Renaissance perival, it has a historical olive grove, natural vegetation and also coastal rocks. And, dear academic, I, for the sake of the citizens of Trieste, must now ask you about these very coastal rocks, or remind you of the events that were on it, which is next. In 2009, on an unclassified road in Trieste, the road was owned by the City of Dubrovnik, while the weather dropped several rocks weighing several tons. Fortunately, no one was injured, the City of Dubrovnik fixed that road, but it wasn't the first case of the slopes, and according to my knowledge they had reportedly already said that five years ago since that unsatisfactory event that something was going to work, try and explore the terrain and make a possible recovery. Because of this situation, we were forced to shut down that road that we encountered with the disdain of the locals. The following year, meaning that year is passing, next year a larger number of rocks fall again, according to the HAZU memo, a warning that as owners of this property, or Arboratum from which the rock fell, it is a duty to secure and resuscitate the terrain. After that, there were a few correspondence and we had a meeting in Dubrovnik. Representatives came, but we didn't get any movement. Because of the threat, the possible threat of passersby City of Dubrovnik in co-ordination with the police administration shut down that unclassified road, it closed the passage. But that's how we got the locals' disdain again. Why, because the locals are also engaged in tourist activities, they lose every day in their work, and they also can't go through the way they went to that only bathroom they had. Here's the honorary academic, I've been free to ask you this question and I hope to get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2382	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the debate by a respected representative, Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2383	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Since I come from the city of Djakova, from a town where Bishop Strossmayer has done most of his and his bishop and political activities, I will still begin with this significant political and cultural person from not so long ago Croatian history. You have many times today and colleagues have mentioned in the debates the famous password that led Bishop Strossmayer through life. This password precisely means "enlightenment towards freedom" and it was a fundamental feature that led Bishop Strossmayer to establish a top scientific institution, an institution that would deal with science and art. Before the bishop Strossmayer, the idea was led by the Illyrians led by Gai, Ljudevita Gai, who held meetings in the Assembly in 843, 845 and 847, with the idea of starting the academy, but because of such absoluteism and due to other historical circumstances they had not matured the conditions for the establishment of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. What is most important, that Bishop Strossmayer is a great match and I could say visionary, made in December 1860 that he had now with one European terminology, with a financial envelope of 50,000 forints, handed over to Ban Šokčević an idea for the establishment so that the Academy was then founded in 861. And as the government then referred to this high-value establishment that only after a few years was it in secret almost marked the beginning of the work of this scientific institution. Why am I saying this, for one simple reason, because I believe that an independent Croatian state which, thanks to its protest, has come to its freedom, to its independence, may not in the best way have responded and thanked such a prominent historical person. I would also say what is the importance of the Academy of Science and Arts, that at that time in Southeast Europe no academy worked. Only after the Academy which was founded in Zagreb was 861, our eastern neighbours of Serbs, Bulgaria 1911, and our western neighbours in 1936. This tells about how the Croatian people felt and how they experienced science and academia. Fortunately, the Croatian people were able to preserve the academy, scientists and academics who acted in the academy last year marked 150 years of work of the Croatian Academy and they were rightly able to meet all the challenges that the political environment, economic and all. I would just like to point out that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts compared to the draft of the Academy of 861 that the conditions changed significantly, that Croatia has its own country and that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts must meet the needs of the Croatian people and Croatian state for the 21st century. I would say that and also welcome and join the initiative of my fellow parliamentary representative, Mr Grubisic, that the City of Đakovo and the Academy have been talking intensively since 2011 on the establishment of an art and science unit in the City of Đakov and I think it might be best to pay off the debt to Bishop Strossmayer for what he did. This department of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts could deal with various studies, and in particular it could deal with a vast legacy of Bishop Strossmayer so that generations that come in one way and evaluate the bishop Strossmayer. Because we can speak in a newer and not more recent history that many prominent Croats have entrusted Croatia and generations to come, but with such works as Bishop Strossmayer has made few famous and respected Croats can be raised. He founded the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, founded the University in 1874, and on the value of the gallery of old masters not to speak. I would also like to suggest or suggest to the academy that the academy should certainly take care of respected scientists and academics who acted on the use of their names and protect their names. I don't think it's being abused, but it's the same thing about being high. Once again, congratulations to the academy on successful work, and I want to certainly do better work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2384	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next in 10 minutes on this subject respected representative Dunja Spoljar. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2385	Dear Vice President, distinguished academics, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would point out again and underline that this is the report we are assessing today for 2010. However, this Assembly and the committees responsible and in the 2009 Report For a year, they noted that the media was insufficiently monitoring the work of the academy. However, it is exactly the same or equally lacking image of the Academy's work in the general public and in 2010. The academy was expected to distribute at least valuable sums and conclusions from expert meetings through electronic media if it was not already able to boost media interest. However, such expectations have not been met. The Academy continues to deal with important social issues insufficiently and does not issue reasoned press releases. But there's the other side. The edition of "Croatia and Europe" which we have seen here as an encyclopaedic overview of Croatian cultural history from the beginning to the present day, which, in an interesting and reading way in Croatia but also in the world understandably, represents the basic knowledge of Croatian history and culture in all fields, both in political and in social, linguistic and literary matters, and in the field of fine arts, music and science. Also, the Presidency of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was actively involved in the analysis of the draft Law on University, Higher Education and Science of the Ministry of Science and Education and then sport, and made it clear that they are not based on serious programming documents and that they are not acceptable. Furthermore, the Bureau assessed that it was not possible to start a systematic transformation of education on the basis of the National Framework Curricula, and that the NOK also declared it unacceptable. Next mentioned with a small reservation of the basic tasks of the Academy, which are to encourage and organise scientific work and advocate the implementation of the results achieved, develop artistic and cultural activities and care for Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world. Further to publish the results of scientific research and artistic creation, and to give proposals and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. For 2010 they were achieved, so the report was offered fully acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2386	Thank you very much. First notice. I shall inform you that it is in accordance with Article 207. Article 2 The Rules of Procedure expired at 15.36 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The debate of 10 minutes was attended by a respected representative, Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear academic Rudan. Well, I think my predecessors have already said a lot about the work of the academy in 2010. Since I am somehow following through the Education Committee and through these plenary sessions for the eighth year, I would say the work of the Academy will allow me to say that at the very beginning there is a very visible shift from those of our first reports that we met with both the secretary and the president of the Academy and when we pointed out really some things that the academy should miss that in these last reports it was done. You said from this inspired report that has always been inspired twice, which is shown in the 114th book of the Croatian Academy of Letters, which you say are only numbered, that a whole series of major activities, this 34 scientific gathering, 8 assemblies, 6 solemn sessions, 18 lectures, 14 book presentations, press conferences that may have been able to break down a little before such a major blockade towards the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts as a joint, scientific and cultural institution in Croatia, and these numerical indicators clearly give us a hint of how large, extensive and active the work of members of the Academy, in hundreds of scientific and professional articles and discussions. What marked this already last year 2010 and soon I hope that we will receive a 2011 report on the work of the Academy, so certainly your new election assembly, the appointment of the new president of the Academy, but also in 2010 was in the atmosphere of preparing for a very large and commendable anniversary of the 150th anniversary of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which we marked last year. I must say that you, in your presentation, and also a few colleagues, and even the representatives' clubs, have particularly pointed out and I would like to underline that proposal which the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has repeatedly convened in previous times and ask the Academy to establish that tenth grade, the class for visual arts. Respecting your explanation that there are also members in their membership from the performance arts, i.e. people who are in the film, the theatre as members of the academy, I think that one class, regardless of what they individually operate in the academy, would mean at this time when it is an area that is very much represented in the everyday lives of people, especially art, is very welcome. So please once again on the trail of what we have been saying and praying, consider it, and you said that in 2011, a review of the founding of this 10th class has already begun, consider and certainly find out, find the possibility of a draft of this new class. During the discussion on the Academy's work reports over the past 4 years, we have been very often warned, and today we have heard this, that the members of the Academy should express their views and opinions on some of the problems of Croatian society, especially now in solving the economic crisis, recessions, present their opinion, which I think, if this Yearbook or proletarian is read, it is seen that in 2010, the members of the Academy were dealing with what we would say in everyday public life with everyday problems. That they accepted this initiative in discussions from previous reports, and that they began to talk about the problems that plague us. Here in the field of education that I am following the Academy, the members of the Academy discussed both the National Framework Curriculum and the law that my colleague mentioned about higher education and the Law on Science and certainly contributed much to the resolution and involved in the debate. Also, through 15 scientific councils, members of the Academy discuss very important things in the field and transport and maritime and academia and agriculture and forestry and rights, justice, tourism, construction and that I do not explain everything. I must point out that I will especially highlight this edition because it is one of the very important editions in Croatia and Europe, a very important promoter of Croatia, the sustainability of Croatian culture and Croatian science in the world. Why does it matter? Because it really records both our past and our present. But I sincerely hope that in this 5th volume we will also have signs of our future on the trail of what we have here and the other day decided at a referendum that we belong to the community of the European peoples and communities of a global world. Finally, something that may have been omitted by colleagues should be mentioned, but in mentioning international co-operation, they pointed out. Our Academy has a whole series of agreements signed on cooperation with the Academy in various parts of the world, but something that has been particularly important in recent years and has attracted special attention to what the Academy has paid attention to is cooperation with Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it has contributed significantly to people living outside by working with their institutions, different even civil society associations, it has been very important and important for maintaining the cultural identity and national identity of Croats. I think that on the trail of what I briefly tried to say that in the 2011 Report, we will still talk about these problems as well as problems, and that is what my colleagues noticed, which are present in 2010, and I hope that this is also for 2011, that the Academy is not itself closed as an institution, but that the interest in scientific and cultural work of the Academy is really small. We should all, colleagues and colleagues, make sure that the Academy is popularized really as a commanding institution. It is not something that should be closed I would say about the wider masses of society but should open them, and primarily young people should refer to what knowledge and knowledge and what knowledge they can get using indeed all the resources of the HAZU. Here's the thing. I'm gonna back this report anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2388	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. A respected representative named Zeljko Reiner came forward. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2389	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. And I would like to join in the commendation that the new colleagues and colleagues gave to the Academy and finally this particular report. Indeed, the Academy is the top, I would say, the pyramids of science, art, culture of Croatian people and its role is not only to preserve and promote the cultural heritage of Croatian people but, of course, as more colleagues have said, it must and indeed does look into the future, give guidance to the development of Croatia in different aspects. What needs to be said here and perhaps it is good to highlight it and to point out that unfortunately around the Academy in the public precisely because of what several colleagues have pointed out, and this is an insufficient presence in the media, there is I would say and dare say myths specified. One of the myths is that it was recently written in a newspaper that it was an exclusive nursing home. So, a group of older people who may have done something before, and today, in fact, no longer contributes to science, culture, art, etc. There's nothing further from the truth than a mocking-up claim that unfortunately is in the media that we've been talking about sometimes. When you look at this report and you see it's, say, that year 2010. The Academy worked on 41 scientific projects and very successfully, that the Academy is not what the perception of the people and even the more educated sometimes exists, which is that it is that palace of Zrinjevac and that it is the Academy. The Academy is a living tissue that has 22 locations all over Croatia dealing with broad spectrum and science and art. There is, therefore, more than one building and a group of people involved in science in the building. This is one of the myths that should actually be clearly mentioned because when we talk the same about its activity, when we look at the number of events that took place then it is seen that in 2010 if the summer months are excluded, about 2 to 3 books were released in the academy and I still don't know how many events happen every week. One of the things that is very important is that some might think on the basis of certain discussions that the academy should interfere with certain matters of everyday politics. The Academy cannot and must not be guided for I would say the Syrian name of the daily policy because it should not and must not interfere with daily politics, it should be the conscience of Croatia and that is, it should, it should and does make it possible to offer solutions but also to politicians whether it will accept or not accept what kind of solutions the academy offers, it does so continuously. We have recently witnessed a week ago of a successful attack by the Croatian Academy about Croatia's entry into the European Union where the Academy has made very clear its declaration of something that was of crucial importance for Croatia's future. The Academy gave a whole series of other declarations and statements at a recent time, from the one on the Croatian language on energy strategy, etc. However, of course, we at the Academy and here would be happier if the Academy were more present in the media and that science and culture were generally more present in the media, but on the other hand, openness should not be mixed with the estradisation of science that we sometimes see as well. We have two extremes from ignoring science from one side to estradizing science on the other side where individuals are every two three weeks with epochal discoveries present in the public, then these epochal discoveries fade, and then the epochal discovery comes back from the same individuals and then fades, etc. It wouldn't be good if the academy went that way, but I'm sure she won't go. I'd like to mention one more thing. We have all talked more times about how more resources should actually be directed into scientific research, so it was, a colleague Jerkovic mentioned specifically that the million kunas the academy gives to help scientific projects are not enough. Of course, I agree that it is not enough, that there should be more, probably even funding of the academy is not enough, but just to remind us all together, we always swear that health has no price, that we want a knowledge society, that knowledge should be the foundation of everything and everything, I would just remind us all that when we discuss the state budget here for a month, let's not, by good Croatian custom, get sick of sudden amnesia when we're going to talk about how much money it takes for science, how much money we have to give to health, how much money we have to give to the academy, let's give these institutions that we say are the foundation of Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2390	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted a list of MPs and agents who have applied for a debate on this subject. IS a respected academic named Paul Rudan a short thank you and look back? Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2391	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Just so you don't think that members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art have been somewhat slowed down. Well, at the time when you were at lunch, I gave a part-time lecture to my students at the Faculty of Philosophy in the course of Introduction to Biological Antheology and made it clear to them what their thought must be of a guide in a further life but I also arranged for some documents to come here for which you will clearly see what the Academy has done so far in view of all the issues that respected MPs and MPs have asked. So I will be pleased to have Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament so that you can share with individual committees within our Parliament because this is the result of the work not only of academics but of many top scientists of certain areas who have considered almost all the questions you have raised in today's debate. I would thank everyone most and there were 11 distinguished ladies and gentlemen who discussed many of these questions and if you would allow me now as an old professor I could give a three-hour lecture and it would be interesting to you about all this but then it would mean that you would accept these answers as a report on my work as secretary-general but also the entire Croatian Academy of Science and Arts for 2011 so that I would not have to come back in May to present it to you again. But I won't stick to what I have to stick to. I would like to thank the most esteemed Professor Bolunčić, the chairman of the Committee, all the members of the Committee, because what he said about the 2010 report was unanimously accepted, which can be nicer, thank you very much. It is clear that the question of cost reduction is raised, believe me, the new administration in 2011 is a maximum advocate of reducing costs. It's about the age of 75 and over, here I have some data on the Chinese Academy of Science that has 699 scientists 204 of these academics who are seniors, there are 40 women, at around 940 women is not so bad, their average is 74 years old. The Hungarian Academy of 73 years, the Mexican Academy for 65 years, but statistics are a very interesting discipline. We have the space of manifests we have the space of latent variables, we have the possibility of factor analysis to come up with a little more detailed data, we can talk about Gauss distribution and we can talk about pausson distribution, we can talk about what no one who criticises the age of the Academy is talking about, and that's the difference between the age of those who are now regular members of the Academy and the age of life when entering the Academy. We had Mohorovic and Supek at the age of 30 and 35, but gentlemen, this country carried out Andrija Stampar, not only as a magnificent creator of the social medicine space that was president of the HAZU from 1947 to '57. For years already, a man who was one of the founders of perhaps the World Health Organization, who has worked together for many years with some of our colleagues in Asia, China and today the United States are trying to introduce the Andrija Printar system of social medicine. So let us accept the fact that old academics, so clearly for God's sake and be even older academics, and we must be proud that our health care is so good that it keeps people alive for even over hundreds of years. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] This is with what Mrs. Antičević-Marinović said to me, "Vivat Academia" is the sweetest thing I've ever had today. Thank you. As far as these questions are concerned, but the question of the statutes is also raised, and the statutes are passed by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I ask you, when we are after the assembly, that our assembly of the Academy in April of the Month, we present some suggestions not to be like the forgiveness of my dear colleagues in this House, that the whole year may pass, and that I now have to present the 2010 report, I ask you to put it under discussion within 15 days. We'll speak quickly because I'm as well known as St. John's. Jerome said, "Forgive me, sir, I am a Dalmatian," so my parents, since I carry these Dalmatian genes from me, created a person who can relatively quickly present fundamental problems and believe me, that congregation that we keep in April, and you immediately accepted us, we're about half an hour from now. But I'm asking you to also propose the statutes we're asking you to bring in to accept them quickly so that we can move into realisation. Opening to the media. Opening to the media is very interesting. Namely, a colleague named Coleman and the distinguished representative of Mrs. Prof. Becausekovic has several crucial questions, but I must warn you that on January 19th we had an extraordinary academy assembly dedicated to the problems of Croatia's entry into the EU. His Excellency was present, unfortunately many members of the parliament could not come because they were busy with other more important things, but 90 members of the academy accepted and supported Croatia's entry into the EU, 2 were against and 1 was abstention. Did the media say anything about it? I mean, we found only a few sentences in some I won't tell you what kind of newspaper. Is that what the TV was talking about? It's not. And what can be more significant than the fact that in one people, the Academy of Science and Art is clearly expressing and expressing the direct need to enter into such a structure as the EU. Mrs. Professor. Jerkovic said that beautiful words, visions, missions, etc. But that reality is worrying. Yes, reality is worrying. Yesterday I watched through the academy window as the workers of one of our industry from Slavonia went from Ban Jelačić Square to the station and that was terrible. Just today, I told my students at the last lecture between these two sessions of the Parliament about it. And I said I was surprised by the banners they wore. They're asking capitalists to give them money. Well, capitalists don't give money, capitalists make money for themselves. We are still not at the level of capitalism of one Sweden, one Denmark, one Norway or one Netherlands. But I have to tell you one other thing, the academy that it's a trom, that it's conservative and closed, the colleagues aren't. I would just like to tell you that we held a symposium, a round table "The importance of knowledge and the application of knowledge to get out of the crisis" in 2011, here are all the thoughts that were expressed at that symposium and I leave you Mr. Vice President of the Parliament this. Then held a whole series of 15 symposiums Croatian Academy of Science for State Administration and Justice and Rule of Law, Strategy for judicial reform, Reform of the Croatian State Administration, National Anti-Corruption Programme, Reform of Administrative Judiciary and Administrative Procedure, Reform of Legal Education, Modernisation of Croatian Real Rights, Accession of the EU Republic, Civil-Legal Relations in Medicine, Croatian State and Administration, Croatian Constitutional Court, New Croatian Local and Regional Self-Government, 20. The anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, MPs in the Croatian Parliament and referendum, forms of democracy, the Republic of Croatia in the EU. Gentlemen, the MPs I respect and appreciate, I'd like to ask you to take this later and share... You're asking questions and very good questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I have to admit, thank you for asking those questions. You've exactly scored everything that needs to be done. Let me start at number three. A declaration of knowledge. Knowledge of the foundation and competition of development. Promotion and promotion of scientific excellence, 10th grade for visual arts. We're at the academy discussing it. There is no "numerus Clausus", there can be no more than 150 academics, and we now have 130 living ones. Unfortunately, a few colleagues left us. And unfortunately, there is that publishing activity involved in having these memorial books that kind of outline their life’s work. I wish there was less to it. And now there's going to be elections at the academy soon. But we are colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the council, limited by the Statute of the Academy and the way choices are made. So I ask you again to put it on as a problem before the Parliament after the Academy Assembly in April and to come up with perhaps a proposal to suggest candidates in another way. At that time, I am sure that there will also be a restructuring of the relationship between the different members of the academy and that the younger Corps will be better involved. But beware, there are many new scientific disciplines in this country and there are many young people in this country, there are many and many older people in this country, but becoming a regular member of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art can be made after we have done something in life, we have proven ourselves and we are moving on. I don't want to talk about what I did right now, but it can be the subject of criticism. I created a new scientific discipline, biological anthropology, organized with colleagues a new Institute of Anthropology for which you can see how it is according to its quality of scientific research. We founded the Croatian Anthropological Society in '77. And that's gentlemen in nomination, not in genius, so we weren't forced in '91. change your name from the genitals to the nominative. We and the European Anthropological Society founded in this city, in Zagreb. We started the magazine Collegium anthropology, one that has been coming out for 35 years, which has been in... since 1980. We have established a whole series of different scientific gatherings of the yearbooks called School of Biologic Anthropology in Zagreb for 38 years. We started in Dubrovnik Anthropology and... courses that have already been held for 28 years and clearly, we publish the results of scientific work. As far as international cooperation is concerned, the cooperation of the Academy is exceptional and even in the results of scientific work. The first associates of our academy with members of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Science and Max Planck's Institute of Molecular Anthropology, announced the gene of an extinct hominid and therefore we got a pretty good New... Cleveland price for the best achievement in science, like this and Best paper published in the Journal science in 2010. The prize was $25,000 and we 32 co-authors spent very well in September last year in Opatija at a scientific gathering. We didn't take anything but organized a scientific gathering. E co-workers, 30 doctoral dissertation mentorships, 30 master's, and that's the result that you can be an academic. And now we will be young, we will be old, gentlemen, we will prove ourselves and we will be academics, but then I pray that the Croatian Parliament will not be a numberus Klaus at 150 but be at 200. So the questions are numerous and they need to be carefully, very discreetly thought out and solved and not fall under those tiny little newspaper articles this one came up with, this one came up with this one. Elixir of life, imagine how sad many will now be when really academics start drinking Radman's elixir of life and when we're 150 years old. There will be no place for young people to enter the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Therefore, gentlemen of Parliament and Mrs. MPs, let's study the problems in the holistic analytical approach and let's not rush into the cheap publicity of the yellow press. As far as the pleas are concerned, we've made it clear to me through this, we came forward 10 days ago about the accession of the European Union, we came forward in the same afternoon within two hours, the administration of the Academy of what happened to our generals in The Hague. We were first. On Monday, they asked if the academy had declared itself. Yes, gentlemen, you haven't read the web academy since Saturday, because after two hours, we sat in the academy, listened and watched the convictions and we immediately pleaded. Therefore, let us not say that we do not plead, we plead, but we plead, given that knowledge is, etc., I could now read to you from 1990 until today some 20 declarations, assemblies and statements from the Academy about knowledge and science. But does anyone read it? We, ladies and gentlemen, are one abandoned people who doesn't read enough and I always tell my students that they have to think about three things, that they have to learn, learn and just learn and read. Now it's time to learn. Kolega Mandic and my dear and respected colleague Grubisic, Djakovo, so it is not only Djakovo's problem, the whole eastern Slavonia is the problem. If it hadn't been for the University of Joseph Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek, that part of our homeland would have been... The population would disappear, people would leave. [[You don't understand.]] Thanks to those who created the University of Osijek, who created the university headquarters in Osijek, it lives and the academy has its own institute in Osijek, run by the respected professor Tucak. The Academy has its own office in Vinkovci, the Academy has its own institution in Vukovar and it is our honor to have both the Institute and the Science Unit in Đakova. The academy management, led by academics Kusic, just talked about it the other day, and it is clear that we are asking that the de facto structure of Đakova, Djakova City, help us because we need to organize a space where two, three people will work as representatives of the Academy. Comrade Giovanni Sponza, something terrible has happened. It is said that HAZU and Ruđer Boskovic Institute are suing each other. It's the same problem the academy faces with regard to the ownership of paintings in the modern gallery. We are registered as legal followers and heirs and owners of this institute, and a building in which the Institute for the Research of the Sea is located. The academy supports it, not collapses, but the academy can't let what she's entrusted just disappear. Therefore, this court dispute, one moment nice please, I did not say well, this court dispute does not mean that we want to take away the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, not at all, but this dispute means that the Ruđer Boskovic Institute must admit that it must pay for this space and we are asking that one kuna be paid, but that by paying 1 kuna per month for the whole building it is recognised that the building is owned by the Croatian Academy of Science and Art. That's why this is a dispute, because no one wants to admit that the academy is property. I have to tell you when Meštrovic left his things, he left it to different people, but he kept those documents to guard and to worry about the academy. Because the academy is the one who has to take care of everything he has to worry about, so he has to take care of both the Institute and that building. There is no problem if it is admitted to be property of the Academy, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and to pay one kuna a month. But someone doesn't want it done. Why doesn't someone want it done? Has anyone thought about privatisation in advance? I must confess to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot allow it, because we are in charge of guarding the treasures of this people and of all the citizens of this country. I think you've now accepted me as the proclaimer of a real situation. Comrade Spoljar, I thank you very much. What srugo say? Thank you. All that you and everyone else have been saying here is clear that it should be accepted. The academy has to accept that because you're the followers of those who started the academy. Therefore, we are also obliged to report to you and that you follow our work. Believe me, we will justify this work, that the new administration, led by the academics, is capable of doing so. We react very promptly. I would ask you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, to support us in this spotty, not to wait a year. And I'd like to tell you something. I'm glad Mrs. Anticevic cried out "vivat Academy" and I hope you'll all exclaim the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2392	Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, allow me to thank you on behalf of the academic P. Rudan for the inspired speech, the address in the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, please help me. Academic Rudan initially put in front of me a task to carry out it I would have to have supernatural power. Namely, 15 books of the academy should be divided into 150 MPs. It's not possible, of course, so I've assessed that we're going to approach the business of how the academy does it. We will put books in the library and one by one advocacy in the Croatian Parliament can take books and study them. Since the academic has stated that the elixir of life from Radman will act quickly, I hope that we will finish reading until that elixir begins to work. Thank you very much. That's what we expect from you, fellow Shakespeare, when you're inspired. We are proposing that we not open the next item on the agenda for discussion tonight, but to approach the debate. We have no conditions for, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I suggest we discuss this bill tomorrow, and today we discuss the following two points of the agenda, but one by one, in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2393	We move to the 2010 report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The debate is closed. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture: A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2010. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most of the votes with 126 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, no one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2394	So, we move to the debate on - Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010, Carrier: Croatian National Bank Representative of the Croatian National Bank Dr Boris Vujčić. Here you go, Doctor. And we'll discuss the Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2395	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. If I had known that my friend Paul would be a speaker before me, I would probably have shortened my exposure, but I won't be too long anyway. In front of you is the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 which at this point is already given how fast things are developing in the economic and financial world almost a distant history, but allow the introduction to note in order to improve the understanding of monetary policy in 2010, as well as current monetary policies, because our monetary policy has not changed so much since the start of the crisis until today. As the Croatian National Bank acted primarily counter-cyclically before the crisis, you remember that before the crisis began, we implemented measures that we were trying to slow the growth of foreign debt and the growth of credit financed by foreign borrowing. For example, I will mention the borderline reserve and minimum foreign currency liquidity. This resulted in a partial slowdown of domestic loans and the transfer of a significant part of the credit risk directly to the banks of the mother, which proved to be a favourable fact after the start of the crisis as part of the credit risk was also realised abroad, rather than in Croatia. But first of all, a change in the structure of funding for domestic banks has been achieved in favour of investment in capital. All this led to the high capitalisation of our banking system and high reserves and kuna and foreign funds in the banking system, which again allowed at the beginning of the crisis at least because the banking system was welcome ready. This then enabled the Croatian National Bank to counter-cyclically release huge foreign exchange liquidity into the system about 4 and a half billion euros in the crisis. And the high level of liquidity has been maintained until today. In practice, we have run a policy of structural surplus liquidity from the start of the crisis to today, which, when done, operates in a system in which the European Central Bank or the US Fed would mean a de facto zero interest rate policy. This enabled relatively favourable state funding to recover both high-end liabilities and to cover the current deficit. This also enabled the retention of ratings and the successful issuance of foreign government bonds, and avoided the need to enter into an arrangement with the IMF throughout that period, which some countries in the environment had to do. All this also allowed for the continuation of the countercyclical action of monetary policy conditions after the peak of the crisis, i.e. in 2010 of what the report before you is talking about. In order to help the real sector and start the credit activity, the CNB announced a reduction in the minimum reserve rate in early 2010 thus liberating significant additional liquidity. However, it was previously necessary to develop certain funding models that, with the participation of the HBOR, would partially share the risk which would encourage banks to speed up credit and interest rates even in the conditions of the growing amounts of non-payment claims. The models that were made were partially successful and only so-called. Model A because of the initial release of 3 billion kuna from HBOR's 2 billion, about half was spent. Further reduction of the reserve requirement from that initial amount that was made was not necessary because there was no additional demand for... i.e. the use of the total available funds for placement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the growth of plasma and monetary aggregates in 2010 compared to 2009 has accelerated. After contractions in 2009, banks in the private sector increased by 7%. The increase was exclusively related to the lending of the business sector while loans were stagnating to the population. It's a de facto situation that goes back to 2011. On the contrary, banks continued to finance the state strongly, so the plasma growth was close to 15%. Total banks rose in 2010 in absolute amount of around 19 billion kuna, and in relative amount Croatia achieved the highest growth in the private sector in 2010 compared to similar Central and Eastern European countries. Such developments on the plasma side also resulted in growth of M1 by 4.1% while in 2009. M1 fell 15% and M4 meant the fastest defined liquidity by 4.4% after the drop in 2009 by 1%. At about the same rate, savings grew – 4.5%, but with further very fast currency substitution. So the translation of kuna deposits back into foreign currency deposits. In other words, the total savings grew, but the savings in foreign exchange grew faster, and in kunas fell so that the total level of the currency substitution again reached 80% after we gradually reduced it for years. So from 85% to 65% level. This very well shows how difficult the process of deeurisation is, i.e. reducing the currency substitution in Croatia is. Due to the legacy, due to the history of foreign currency savings and how quickly in crisis conditions, the process is turning direction and also warning that it would be dangerous to infiltrate the process by administrative measures under the conditions of full liberalisation of capital transactions, which we had to do by adapting to the acquis communitaire in the EU accession process. During 2010, there was also expected to be a further strong growth of poor placements in the conditions of further recession, so other than stability of the price-making policy of a stable rate was also important for maintaining the stability of the financial system, but also for the level of real available spending resources, which depends on the overall economic activity. The pessimism and consumer concerns, the increase in unemployment, the avoidance of the use of new loans have led to a decline in available population income and personal consumption has continued to decline since a strong contraction of as much as 8.5 percentage points in 2009. It fell by another 0.9%. The country's consumption decreased slightly, capital investments dropped by 11.3%, and the only positive growth impulse in 2010 came from exports of goods and services that grew by 6%. However, the growth in export demand and exports was not enough to compensate for the remaining developments, so the overall economic activity fell the second year in a row after -6% in 2009 by 1.2% in 2010. Exports were the only generator of growth, its nominal growth rate in the euro was high – 18%, but still has not reached a period since the beginning of the crisis. On the other hand, imports stagnated, showing that new investments were missing and that consumption, as I said, was still falling slightly. So the current balance of payments account deficit in 2010 was record low, i.e. there was a major contraction of current account deficits and it was 1% of GDP. The low deficit caused the need for foreign financing to be relatively low. Capital inflows included changes in international reserves amounted to only 1.6% of the billion euros. It means a third of the 2009 inflow. The gross foreign debt at the end of December was 46.4 billion euros, which is around today, has been stagnating since then, and international gross reserves have increased to 10.7 billion euros, or more than 7 months of imports. In such conditions, with the entirely dimmed domestic inflationary pressures, again largely the consequences of the CNB recession movement could lead an expansion monetary policy and maintain high Kunian liquidity. The money was not only created by reducing the reserve but also by foreign exchange transactions, by buying foreign exchanges so that the daily surpluses of liquidity in the system throughout the year were huge and the interest rates on the money market were extremely historicalally low – below 1%. For other instruments of money-making Central Bank such as... the loans, liquidity loans and kuna reverse repo transactions in such conditions were not necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, again, we have been constantly maintaining structural surplus liquidity since then, which is de facto a zero interest rate policy in conditions where the interest rate, i.e. repo operations, is the basic transmission mechanism of monetary policy. The amounts the banks invested overnight in deposits at the Central Bank were very high and sometimes amounted to 10 billion kuna. Such a policy of rich and cheap money was implemented by the CNB throughout 2010 and thus continued in 2011. In order to encourage the resuscitation of credit activity and affect the further decline of interest rates on loans, and this is possible as long as the rate is less stable and inflationary pressures are low and until inflational or depreciation expectations are created. Inflation in 2010 on average compared to 2009 was 1.1%) of which only the rise in energy prices was 9.5%. Looking at the end of the year in December 2010 compared to December 2009, prices were 1.8% higher and energy prices were 9.7% higher. As for interest rates on one side, we saw very low interest rates on the money market, historically the lowest, due to the maintenance of such high liquidity levels and a strong reduction of interest rates on... finance ministries compared to what we saw in 2009 and generally more favourable conditions of government borrowing. And we also saw a significant drop in interest rates on short-term business loans. On the other hand, the interest rate on long-term loans to the private sector remained approximately at the levels reached in 2009. Thus, interest rates on long-term loans to currency-class enterprises were on average and further above 7% while interest rates on identical loans to the population in 2009 fell from approximately 9% to 8%. The main reasons for the retention of long-term interest rates at higher levels were a high premium on the country's risk, as well as the continuation of the deterioration of the bank's assets and the non-payment of loan claims. The deterioration in the quality of loans given to businesses has continued to have a dominant impact on the movement of total bad loans, but the strengthening of the Swiss franc has further spurred the growth of poor loans. Bad loans were 7.8% at the end of 2009 and one year later 11.2%. These developments have affected the reduction of interest income from banks and the increase in booking costs for losses. However, the profitability indicators of the banking system were still relatively good. The average return on the bank system activity was 1.2% and the average return on capital was 7%. However, this should be noted that the average for the entire system where one bank significantly influenced what was happening, in 2009 it had a loss and with better results in 2009 improved a significant average of the entire system, if it is excluded, then the results of the banks in 2010 were poor at profitability and yield than in 2009. However, what is most important for the banking system, the banking system also in 2010 has very high reserves and liquidity, both kuna liquidity and foreign liquidity, foreign liquidity particularly important because of very high... The Croatian financial system and has a very high capital adequacy has a very high capital reserve that can handle significant shocks. In fact, the capital ratio in 2010 was 18.4%, which is very high, the recommendation to the European banking association for the middle of this year, that the European banks must raise the average capital adequacy rate to 9%, and the increase in the capital ratio we saw in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to the harmonisation in the process of accession to the European Union, the CRD 3rd so-called capital adequacy directive. which increased the capital ratio by around 2 percentage points by a different calculation and made it comparable to the European banks' capital ratio. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2396	Thank you very much. You heard Mr Boris Vujčić's opening statement as deputy governor of the Croatian National Bank. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Committee on Finance, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2397	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Governor, jokes to the governor, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 at the 2nd session held on 24 January 2012, which was submitted by the Croatian National Bank Act of 30 May 2011 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as the home working body. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that there is no objection to the annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010. The opening statement we had on the Committee you heard now presented by Deputy Prime Minister Vujčić and I will not repeat on this subject, however, I will point out what was highlighted on the Committee as the following positions: The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 was to be discussed in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament when it was included in the agenda of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. In the future, all bonds of submission of their work report to the Croatian Parliament should do so as soon as possible so that the Croatian Parliament can conduct the debate on time. The opinion was expressed that the Croatian National Bank should have managed foreign reserves better, as interest revenues from this base have been significantly reduced. Foreign reserves are the property of the Republic of Croatia and should be managed in a way that benefits the state budget from that property. The debate also said that the best coordination of fiscal and monetary policy is needed in order to create the best conditions for recovery and development of the economy as a whole. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2398	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to take a word from the board? No, I don't. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first to speak was the representative of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia Club, the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2399	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Governor, Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Although we are discussing the 2010 report late, we can also see certain trends not only in the financial and banking system but also in the overall economy of our country. So in 2010, in the world for most countries and their economies, it meant recovery. Most countries gradually emerged from the crisis, which first manifested itself as a financial crisis and later as an economic crisis, and in fact culminated in 2008. Economic growth in EU countries was 1.8% in that year but only the German economy grew slightly higher at 3.6%. Other world economies, especially the United States, which were actually affected by the most severe financial and economic crisis since the middle of the last century, have seen significant growth, and particularly high growth has been recorded by countries such as China, India, Japan, and almost one major part of the Latin American countries. And the countries of our immediate environment record the growth of their economies and by some definition when you have in a few quarters economic growth is said to be coming out of the crisis. All these countries in time observed the causes of the crisis and took various more or less effective measures to contain it. In Croatia, then, the government has long resisted admitting that we are in a crisis especially that it stems from the structure of the economy, said that we are a crisis with us only a reflection of the global crisis, i.e. that the GDP structure to which the most important extent is influenced by the consumption of particularly public spending that has been well-based on debt for days. The lack of effective anti-recession measures, although anti-recession measures were taken on the one hand, and in particular the lack of structural reforms led to a dramatic decline in GDP in 2009 by 6% and in 2010 for further 1.2%. In such conditions, the CNB has directed all activities towards maintaining the stability of the exchange rate of kuna as the main factor in price stability and financial system and to maintaining the liquidity of the banking system, as well as the Central Bank Act established its tasks. The CNB policy aimed at fostering credit activity and improving credit conditions, resulting in greater economic activity. In this regard, the rate of reserve requirements has been reduced from 14% to 13%, the reduced interest rate on the finance ministry's vault records and interest rates on the interbank market. Unfortunately, this did not have a major impact on the overall drop in interest rates. The minimum drop was recorded on short-term loans while interest rates on long-term loans were kept at the same level. The CNB warns through the report that keeping interest rates on long-term loans is due to a high level of premium on the country's risk, i.e. keeping Croatian bonds at an elevated level and poor placements. In particular, the decline in economic activity in 2009 has affected the growth of poor credits, and the additional impact has already been recorded by the strengthening of the Swiss franc especially on the population's loans. The share of bad loans in only one year, so in 2010 compared to 2009, increased by as much as 44%. Thus, increased booking costs for poor wages in banks are partly compensated by improving cost-effectiveness and strengthening other revenues have been significantly increasing revenues from fees and fees, but they have nevertheless affected weaker business results. The high liquidity of the banking system has resulted in low demand for loans and stricter conditions for debtors because they have lost primarily investment activities in the real sector and a decline in imports which are well financed through loans. In such conditions, the banks paid more commitments than they took loans, and the economy mainly refinanced both domestic and foreign. Continuing the deterioration of the balance of a consolidated general state has affected the net debt of as much as 14.5 billion kuna or 3.2% of GDP, and when the protested guarantees are added and the payment of debt to pensioners which we do not demonstrate through the state budget then the objective deficit would rise to as much as 5.3%. This is the reason for the strong growth of the general government's debt because the deficit is fully financed by the debt, mostly on the domestic financial market. In late 2010, 138 billion kuna and 41.2% of GDP were increased by 6%. In addition, the potential risk of the debt that we often forget is the issued state guarantees that amounted to HRK 59 billion at the end of 2010 or even 17.5% of GDP. In the debate on the deficit of the state budget, we in the SDP often warn of this situation especially about the state guarantees given to shipbuilding that should now go into restructuring and privatisation and the question is what is the fate of these still living guarantees. The CNB plays a key role in the supervision of the banking system, thus stating that a single bank liquidation procedure was launched in 2010. The banks are dominated by 6 banks that have 82% of the total assets of all banks. And foreign-owned banks are dominated by shareholders from the Republic of Austria with a 60% stake, followed by shareholders from Italy with a share of almost 20%. This information can be significant in relation to the stability of the banking system in these two countries. In Italy, we have a lot of problems in the banking system. Banks record the constant growth of citizens' deposits in 2010 at 8.1%) but the total growth of deposits is only 4.8% because this is affected by the decline of other sectors' deposits and then reduces deposits to some 12.4 billion increases compared to the year before. However, such an increase was also sufficient for weak credit activity, so banks reduced the use of loans and deposits of majority foreign banks by almost 3%. Compared to the downturn in the economy and the poorer business of the real sector, the bank had good or even very good results in 2010. Before tax, the profit was increased by 7.3%, and after tax it was 3.76 billion kuna. The deputy governor has already said that such a cumulative result has been affected by the positive business of one of the banks that lost in 2009. Individually, banks have achieved slightly weaker results, primarily due to increased booking for poor discounts and due to lower interest incomes despite the fact that the interest rates remained at the same level for the good part, but the lower rates in that year have lower interest revenues. At the time of recession, credit risks should be taken into account. The CNB finds that credit risks are reduced by 1.6% but that this is nevertheless the sole consequence of the methodological nature because, in accordance with the applicable rules, financial assets available for sale are excluded from such risk groups in accordance with European Union legislation. The slowdown, or even the decline in economic activities, the lack of major investment, the inability of entrepreneurs to risk at a time of crisis, influenced the reduction in credit activity, and it mainly relied on the lending of crafts assets and mostly through the models proposed by the Government and which went into two years, so known models A, B and C, of which only model A for crafts and to some extent realised, and the increase in credit for the state which increased the internal debt by 13.5 billion kuna, mainly for the issue of domestic bonds. Finally, we would say that we are assessing that the CNB carried out its tasks in 2010 to ensure the stability of prices and rates and high security of the banking system, using monetary policy measures and instruments. However, economic policy lacked the realisation of measures and instruments for the dynamicisation of the economy, i.e. major structural reforms, which will have a longer impact on slow economic growth and on increasing the share of the real sector in the gross social product. We warn that future harmonisation of monetary and economic and fiscal policies is necessary in order to increase economic growth and the stability of the financial sector. The CNB is independent in the conduct of monetary policy and ensuring the stability of the banking system, but in the present conditions we suggest greater coordination of monetary and executive authorities in order to achieve as positive results as possible. The SDP Club accepts the 2010 CNB Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2400	Thanks a lot to the SDP club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Croatian Labour Party is a respected representative, Branko Vukšić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2401	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice Governor, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It may sound tough and supportive to someone, but they describe the real situation as they sound. We are increasingly victims of monetary colonialism in neoliberal capitalism. The government and the Croatian National Bank did not protect the interests of citizens, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but of large capital. So far, governments have played independence, an alibi for stories. We're a lonely island, we're too small, we're addicted, it's a crisis, it's all true. We're addicted because we wanted to be dependent on it ourselves, and we're independent of the moment you allowed the foreign exchange clause amongst others. Without the risk of banks began the planned, long-term poverty of citizens and businesses. The report doesn't talk about these little things, and it could be said, here's why. Although in times of globalisation, i.e. the consecration of cultural, economic, financial, political and military, it is impossible to talk about state sovereignty in a conventional sense as the foreign minister said a few days ago. We Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party believe that, in addition to Croatia's complete abandonment of all negative aspects of neoliberal capitalism, the relationship to national currency is contributing to the violation of essential sovereignty. We ask for a foreign credit clause to be abolished in order for the kuna to finally become a national currency, in order for Croatia to be returned to a part of the sovereignty that narrows down from day to day and for banks, mostly in foreign ownership, to operate according to the rules under which they operate in their home countries. If the state of the Croatian National Bank is analysed according to the kuna, it is not excessive to say that the kuna was never really a national currency, but rather a mere transactional asset, a step from goods and services to stamps, francs and euros. The central bank's relationship to the Kuna testifies that there is no trust in the true value of the kuna. So far 80 percent of the loan is related to the so-called the foreign exchange clause, which means all loans are foreign currency. Since Kuna is one of the most stable currencies in the world, we see no reason not to end the foreign exchange clause in banking business. The suspension of the foreign exchange clause is particularly important under the conditions of possible devaluation of the kuna. One of the core tasks of the Croatian National Bank is maintaining price stability, and devaluation inevitably leads to price increases. Thus, the effects of devaluation would be shifted to the burden of citizens and the economy, until banks would bear no risks. That is why we ask the CNB to initiate a decision to share the risk between banks, citizens, state and Croatian companies. This would avoid any speculation in the money market that caused the euro, francs and other currencies to rise. We are sure that the suspension of the foreign exchange clause would completely eliminate the exchange rate speculation because in that case, both creditors and banks, not just debtors, citizens, entrepreneurs, would be terrified of devaluation. We believe that the Croatian National Bank must be one of the guardians not only of the monetary independence of the Republic of Croatia but also of the position of the holder of that sovereignty, Croatian citizens in the sovereign Republic of Croatia. The Croatian National Bank has instruments and we ask the Croatian National Bank to use these instruments and protect the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens. The Croatian National Bank can certainly and must in the interest of citizens and businesses encourage the government to seriously and immediately prepare to phase out the foreign exchange clause. At a "money Market" meeting held in Opatija in early May 2011, Governor Zeljko Rohatinski said: "As regards the possible ban on the use of the currency clause on loans, this issue is regulated in Articles 21 and 22. The Law on Mandatory Relations and is outside the jurisdiction of the Croatian National Bank. The European Central Bank also recommends reducing the use of the foreign exchange clause in Croatia to reduce Croatia's vulnerability to possible sudden changes in the movement of the euro and other currencies. Afterwards, the governor acknowledges that Croatia is highly Eurosed, besides what the vice governor also said today because the currency clause in deposits and loans increases credit risk. A similar assessment of the foreign exchange clause in Croatia was given by the IMF, and by some agencies. The CNB sought to reduce the share of the currency clause first by maintaining a stable kuna. But the share of foreign savings is about 80%. For what? Because both executive and monetary authorities worked hard to make a mark, franc, less dollar, and then assume the euro. Kuna in Croatia was never really money but a means of calculation. We are convinced that we are personnel and willing Croatia whose citizens are increasingly turning to collecting businesses in containers to get out of the crisis is high time to deal seriously with years of rejected monetary sovereignty, which, as a weight around our necks, is increasingly dragging us to the bottom. We remind you that every country with an anthem, a flag, a border, an army, the police also have money as a basic feature of its sovereignty. We are allowing it to the bankers when granting credit to the foreign exchange clause or granting credit to impose foreign clauses definitely disowning that sovereignty. The currency clause is illegal. That's not even hard to prove. The law makes it clear that Croatian money is kuna. We electricity, water, taxes, all communals and anything else in Croatia cannot pay with the euro or the dollar, but only with the kuna. How can the bank grant you a kuna loan and the liabilities are calculated in euro. The cowardly egg is also inhabited by a country whose citizens suffer while the political elite from the government to the Parliament sees this agony indifferently, thus proving that it cares little about its own citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2402	Thank you very much. Next up for debate on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2403	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice Governor, ladies and gentlemen. So here is the CNB report, and what we all know in 2010 marked the continuation of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia, unlike the countries of the environment and the countries of the world that came out of this crisis even in BiH was 1.1 in the positive GDP, in Serbia 1.5, in Croatia GDP was -1.3. The inflow of capital amounted to 2010. Only 1.6 billion euros, 3 times less than in 2009 This low capital inflow mainly referred to retained profits in banking, and to the conversion of part of the debt of non-bank financial institutions into capital and to some commercial activity. This says that direct investment was actually not more significant in 2010. The total fiscal deficit was almost 5.35 GDP, i.e. $17.6 billion, and given that this total fiscal deficit was almost fully financed by borrowing, the debt of the general government increased by 6 percentage points, i.e. 20 billion kuna, and at the end of 2010, amounted to EUR 138 billion. State guarantees were €58.6 billion, i.e. 17.5% of GDP and that gross foreign debt, as the predecessors said at the end of 2010 and with now amounts to around 46 and a half billion euros, i.e. 101% of GDP. When it comes to economic activity, we can observe a little in periods. That's right, all parameters are of course negative. Thus, real consumption for the zero-eightth period dropped by 9 and a half percent and total gross investments, i.e. total investment activity in the zero-eightth period dropped by 21 and a half percent. Production fell slightly, up to 16.4% in construction. Real gross and net wages were also reduced by 1.6% in 2010. Real estate prices dropped 9.4%. As much as 45% of the construction permits were issued, so a total significant stagnation in the construction sector. It's a trade trade. Exports increased by 18.2% mentioned. Exports amounted to 8.9 billion euros in 2010. But this primarily refers to several ships that were delivered in that year, while imports were mildly stagnated at 15.1 billion euros. So this is the ratio of imports or exports and imports of 9:15 billion. When it comes to interest rates, so here's the report, I'm going to quote that the interest rate on housing loans with the currency clause is down by 6.45% in December 2009. At 6.02% in December 2010. Interest rates only fell in 2011. All of us can easily look at, for example, the website of 6 large banks in Croatia and see that none of us here can get a housing loan with this interest rate that is moving today without additional benefits between 7 and 7.5%. Now, something about banks, how did the banks go about all this? The profit of banks before tax in 2010 was 4.5 billion kuna, i.e. 300 million kuna or 7.3% more than in 2009. Of which there are over six large banks, so 6 so-called 6 so-called banks. The "big" banks waste a share of the profits of $4.34 billion, i.e. 96.4% of the total profits achieved in the banking sector are related to these 6 large banks and the rest of the 160 million kuna on the remaining 27 medium and small banks. Bank property per employee grows from 16 2006 to 18 million kuna in 2010. The operating costs of banks fall from 55% in 2006 to 48.3% of net income 2010. From these two parameters, and from the other parameters listed in the CNB Report which I am not going to state now, it is evident that the banking sector has in no way assumed its share of responsibility or the burden to address the economic crisis it has generated itself. Neither monetary nor fiscal power obviously had any desire, will or failure to transfer part of the burden of resolving the crisis on the back of banks as it is now announced. Banks may have less profits in the short term, but in the long run they would actually stabilise even more. The report also mentions that the net profit of the CNB in 2010 was 2 billion kuna. Congratulations on a nice profit, on a nice HNB win. We hope it was not created in any way on the burden of taxpayers. One proposal and a crackdown for the CNB, a gold-buying company in the Republic of Croatia during each day in the working week, collect about 30 kg of 14-carat gold from citizens. A total of 8 to 8.5 tonnes per year. This jewelry, which is bought as a break in hundreds of ransom cells in the Republic of Croatia, is the jewelry of our grandparents and all of us who surrender in the unpainted area, melts into unprocessed 1 kg gold bars and such unprocessed gold bars are derived from the Republic of Croatia as raw materials in the category of wood logs without any giving. In 2011, 25 export licences were issued for these gold bars of a total weight of 2 170 kg. The assessment is that it is double the amount, so part of it is exported without export licences. The Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries in Europe and the region that does not have any gold reserves, and therefore a proposal to Vice Governor, i.e. to introduce an obligation to sell that gold to the CNB. Therefore, the CNB is making enough revenue to convert part of its monetary income into gold deposits, thereby preventing the permanent export of that gold and the poverty of the Republic of Croatia, under 2 gradually creating a Croatian gold reserve, i.e. reserves. As regards CNB itself, the aim of the CNB is to maintain price stability and support the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the principles of open market economy and free competition under the CNB Act. This means that monetary power must ensure that both external and internal balances are achieved. The mechanism through which monetary policy is implemented, the system of financial intermediaries, primarily banks must be functional, healthy. In the banking sector, the concentration of large foreign banks is more pronounced than elsewhere in the developed world. In view of the profits achieved, practically 97 profits go to foreign owners from the banking sector. Such a financial sector, particularly in foreign ownership, can encourage the lending of domestic consumption of imported products, such as cars of permanent consumer goods and thus support the state of its owners, and detimise domestic production through, for example, hard-to-reach loans at too high interest rates. This trend and such trend is not entirely unknown to Croatian opportunities, but the CNB measures that would detimise it have not been seen too much. Nor would the CNB's stabilisation measures that would go to lower interest rates, which would encourage the lending of the economy and speed up economic activity have also not been too observed. The CNB did not stand out in the case of HNB where there was no signal from the CNB on irregularities that led to the bank's going down at one point. Today, HPB is the seventh bank in Croatia, a 100% Croatian-owned bank. It's a bank that citizens trust despite the problem she was in. The Croatian Post Bank must remain a Croatian bank, so we also warn the monetary and fiscal authorities that 4.5 million Croatian citizens deserve to have one large Croatian bank. We strongly oppose the test balloons that are being released in public about the sale of HPB, and we will be against any decision that leads to the entry of foreign capital into HPB in any ownership stake. Teached by bad examples of INA, HT, and other companies and banks. The Croatian Post Bank should be a healthy bank, a business in the market and in the interest of its owners of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, our message is not to accept any mention of the sale or entry of foreign ownership into the HPB and we do not accept and withdraw any further increase in the share of foreign capital in the ownership structure of Croatian banks. As far as the policies of a solid kuna are concerned, the policy of a solid kuna is, even with a mild appreciation of the conduct of the CNB, both advocates and opponents. But most agree, and we agree with them that monetary policy in the segment of holding the exchange rate and maintaining the stability of the course was one of the few anchors of the overall Croatian economic policy. It was one of the few predictable variables that gave investors and the total Croatian economy stability and security. Therefore, the HDSSB's Club of Representatives will, with the remarks and proposals we have made, be very abstention in the vote on the Annual Report of the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2404	Thank you very much. Next up for debate on behalf of HNS MP Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2405	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club, certain conclusions and views based on the 2010 report, and although this should not be now but last year, in the previous assembly of the Parliament, I think it is good to take advantage of the moment, given that more significant financial opportunities have not changed, it can even be said. The CNB's policy was implemented and focused on maintaining high liquidity, trying economic recovery, along with the HBOR reduction of mandatory reserves from 14% to 13%. But we at the HNS see that this recovery has obviously not been achieved. Net credit growth was only 5.9%, and real growth if credits nominated and indexed with the euro were excluded has only 1.8%. There's a question of where she ended up being released from liquidity. Credits to the population are in decline, banks' confidence in domestic employers and the population declines, and it is hard to prove their creditworthiness under the now tightened criteria of banks, but therefore the credit of state and state-owned companies and, of course, investment in securities, vault records, bonds of the money market, etc. The economic activity that should have encouraged the release of part of the minimum reserve did not occur in 2010. In CNB's policy towards banks, there is a clear lack of good quality cooperation, selective access to smaller banks that were 22 in Croatia, and more prevention and less bureaucratic approaches and joint meetings. It is further said that in 2010, however, the profitability of the banking system in 2010 was still relatively good. We at the HNS believe this points to a devastating fact. Banks save their own result by increasing revenues from commissions, charging on the burden of a healthy part of the portfolio by burdening an additional part of the economy that still survives but is late with its liabilities. So he pays notices, fees for prolongate credits, tight interest rates, etc. The HBOR does not contribute as much as it should and in certain segments is similar to commercial banks and determines the risk premiums for loans it places through commercial banks, even though such arrangements pose a total risk at a business bank. This increases the rate of interest in the end. For example, it does not contribute to the promotion of exports of a key segment for economic recovery. The growth in the share of bad loans in 2011 will certainly be visible in the 2011 Report, as many indicators suggest, the growth of tax debt through unpaid VAT, contributions, etc. Therefore, bank control in part of the bad portfolio should be tightened. It is important to see how banks valorise the collection of bad discounts especially in the area of project financing in construction, because we know that projects stand and land purchased by banks have no market value. This area can be interesting because of the fact that projects like this have been rarely reserved for privileged persons of our social and political life and the sprawl are the basic banks that called it could not resist and will do everything possible to keep these placements in the zone outside of problematic loans and thus to cover up their own responsibility in approving them. The cost-effectiveness that the CNB so easily mentions in practice is nothing more than closing non-profit businesses, reducing workers' salaries and resolving surpluses. Fortunately, this last one was still accompanied by severances that are above average high. This threefold efficiency is indirectly impacting the standard of citizens. The behaviour of banks in the case of the Swiss franc is much said in the media and remains a bitter taste of complete insensibility and the absence of social responsibility and timely reaction. The report further discusses the continued growth of deposits, however, the growth of deposits grew at a significantly higher rate than that marked by credit activity, we are talking about the growth of the population's deposits. So it is concluded that the population that has excess resources is growing in the second half of the year coincides with the tourist season and the incomes of renting on tourism. This coverage strengthened the position of banks on the side of commitments where commitments under the credits received were replaced by much better sources in the form of savings for citizens. This means that there has been no correlation between the core segment of banking activity with the depositor's credit or the location of the Croatian citizens' free money needed by the Croatian economy. Furthermore, the report said that the bank's interest income at the end of 2010 was 7.1% lower than at the end of 2009, interest revenues fell but at least those in the population's loans fell, why? The age of the companies around which the growing and medium-sized banks are being kidnapped, in the short-term financing, strongly pressure the banks and achieve maximum low margins. The reason lies in the competition of banks and the refusal of quality companies to agree to various fees such as those on early closure of loans. Therefore, any cost insensitivity of the bank is punished by the refinancing of the particular loan, by the loan of the other acquisition of the competitive bank. Citizens whose loans are long-term, have no chance at all. Despite the recent one since the beginning of 2011, by abolishing the high early closure of the loan, many credit banks, contracted before that date, continue to account for high population fees. Due to a significant share of nearly a quarter of the Swiss franc loans, including kuna loans with a currency clause in that currency, the total loans of the population to the smaller claims on loans related to that currency are their effective fall and the impact on the decline of total loans to the population. In the case of a loan for car purchase equal to credit-card loans, a two-year downward trend continues, with somewhat accelerated dynamics, on the other hand an effective increase in the population sector in the longer-term loans sector and without special purpose, mostly cash non-intentional and then mortgage loans that the citizens have probably partly used to close other liabilities to banks. As regards the presented balance sheet of the CNB, it is given to accounting audit experts, not representatives of the Croatian Parliament, who should be given a brief explanation of the quality and structure of the active and passive CNB balance sheet, as well as the potential of the CNB balance sheet positions in terms of the development of the possibility of developing active, development, monetary and foreign policy. As far as the profit and loss account is concerned, there is a short explanation of the structure of income and expenditure, and there is a lack of quality economic justification for the proposal that the net profit of two billion kuna is allocated in retained profits, not to be paid into the state budget, especially in the difficult economic situation and the necessary means for development. The material is partly generalized in terms of its material being the State Statistics Institute and lacks more quality and essential information on the state and assessment of the situation in Croatian banking and in the CNB. Finally, according to the tasks of the CNB defined by the CNB Act and the legal obligation of the CNB to take care of monetary foreign exchange policy in the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on fiscal policy one of the key facts in 2010 was quite poor co-operation between the Government and the Ministry with the CNB. Because well-designed monetary and foreign policy in line with fiscal policy is a key driver of proactive economic activities and stability of the country's financial and economic system, and therefore more common objectives can be achieved more easily, such as: Make it easier for citizens and the economy to come to a credit model for the sale of unsold apartments for the market, to reduce interest rates on housing loans and measures to encourage private entrepreneurship as an example. The initiative by the CNB towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia was for co-operation but there was no adequate response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One of the indicators and indicators is the very fact that this debate was not at the previous assembly in 2011 because of certain relations or because of poor communication between the Government and the CNB. With its conservative policy, the CNB put outside the scope of making available part of the capital, which is of course not good for producers, for exporters, for the economy as a whole. However, because of the inability to cooperate with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we understand the conservative policy of the CNB in 2010 and this conservative policy in such circumstances has then proved to be good as the only possible guarantee for the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Croatia and as a response to the crisis. The HNS Club will report to the CNB for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2406	Thank you. Next on behalf of the club representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2407	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the CNB's representatives, gentlemen of the MPs. Yeah, like everyone said, as we see this report for 2010. It's even 2011. Today we are in 2012, today we should wait for this budget to discuss what we should expect in 2012. We can only say that it is certain before us that that year will, unfortunately, be more uncertain, perhaps more uncertain than this 2011. Mr. Rohatinski recently spoke of reducing the deficit by nine billion kuna. Maybe it's not far from the truth when that victim predicates to the preservation of a credit rating. What does it mean if the credit rating goes down in the Republic of Croatia? We see loans from RH perma to this report means state, economy, citizens etc. They reach nearly 280 billion kuna. If such a negative credit rating falls for only one place, and this is realistic and it needs to be avoided, that means that all those in charge will have to pay more expensive not only new ones but also those previously granted their loans. And that's how much we really need to support the new government, simply when it comes to it, there's no right to mistake. The odds are difficult, everyone speaks from those most powerful Mrs. Merkel further that in 2012 will be more difficult than in 2011. Credit rating agencies have recently torn down credit ratings and one big orderly France, and Italy, and Slovenia, and Spain, and Portugal, and Slovakia, and Malta, and Cyprus, and the question is now really asking, what Croatia can expect. Croatia has so-called A low credit rating but enough to repay debts, so-called. BBB minus. We've been here recently with Portugal, now Portugal has fallen to BB or so on. speculative rating and here they are already in that danger of repaying debts. One Italy has BBB plus, means something a little better than Croatia. If that's the case in Italy or if Italy's on such low branches, where are we? What do I want to say, gentlemen? We've lost about 150 thousand jobs in the last two years. In 2012, this year it is due to return 17.2 billion euros, not only the state clearly, perhaps the smallest economy, etc., the currency liquidity we heard from the vice governor was large, external debt 2003 was 20 billion euros, 2011. 46, the liquidity in 2003 was 11 billion kuna, today 40, the state guarantees in 2003 were 20 billion, today 60 billion kuna, etc. But why am I saying this? On page 2. 129 of this report is given one table and I think that maybe that key table in this report is partially compensateable and completely irreparable loans. So in 2008, we see that in 2008, he made such unsettled or partially compensateable loans to companies that they amounted to 7 billion 234 million kuna, 2009 already 12 billion 736 million kuna, and imagine 2010. 19.5 billion kuna. I guess in the meantime, that number at 19 probably went up to over 30. It's not? God forbid it isn't. Then the population of 4 billion 998 billion is the amount of 2008, 2009. 7 billion, 2010. Nine.9 billion kuna. Residential loans, meaning inadequacy, are now best seen in the position of citizens, 891 million kuna 2008, 2010. 2 billion $584 million, and now I'm not counting any further. It's interesting that car buy loans, so cars we like seem more than anything, they've even fallen down. So this irreparability or inaccessibility of the loan is increasing, so it's increasing in '11. Sure, so thank God it's not for those 30 billion I mentioned. I'll be afraid to grow in 2012. Now we see or read that banks should take over stakes in the fallen companies, I don't know how it's going to turn out. We seem to be selling what is best, Croatia Insurance, Post office Bank, and entering the equity portfolios of something that is difficult to define. Okay, but we'll see what happens. So the capital in 2010 was inadequate somewhere between 12% and 13% or total loans in 2010 were already mentioned in the 274.9 billion kuna. Refundable loans 30 billion 724 million kuna. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 12.2%. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I said 12 to 13%, but 30 billion. If it's 30 billion in 2010, then I guess we're in the apartment to make those parameters worse in 2011. I'm normally cynical, but I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. The population is only 3.5%, so citizens pay, citizens do their best, citizens if they haven't 100% secured their mortgages, they can't go to credit. Now it's starting to come up with bonds again. The 55th page of this report says that the market capitalisation of all bonds on the domestic capital market at the end of December 2010 was 52.7 billion kuna or 7.1 billion euros. What's gonna happen at these years ahead I don't know. Then page 48, 49 are already talking about the average interest rates, and then it is said that in the segment, I quote, short-term short-term loans, exceptional stability showed interest rates on short-term loans to the population without the currency clause, which in December 2010, amounted to almost the same as in December 2009, 12.64% versus 12.68% in kuna savings. Something smaller on the foreign exchange. What I'd like to know and what I'd like to know for sure to the public, how many billions of dollars we sold to the Croatian banks, how much they were rescheduled there until 2000 or 2001. Can anyone tell us what was going on in the '90s, meaning how many domestic banks were rescheduled, how much they were sold, what bank profits were after they were taken over by foreigners. We have a right to do that, if we're going to get it I don't know. I agree with even some who say that some banks without privatization would literally collapse under quotes because of the influence of politics, but how is it that foreigners can successfully do business and we can't. However, regardless of all the banking system in the Republic of Croatia is stable, it is already many. Kuna is stable and that's a lot, the currency liquidity is I dare say complete and that's a lot. These are also good messages in front of the lenders to be set up, which will come relatively quickly to the Republic of Croatia. Inflation is minimal, and that's not to be underestimated either. And I personally believe that during this observed period, the Croatian National Bank has certainly fulfilled its obligation and I think that this team that is running the Croatian National Bank today deserves our trust. We'll back up at the IDS club this report. I claim that the Croatian National Bank is a factor of stability, the Croatian National Bank may have hit the export economy of some of the environments in the Republic of Croatia because of a strong kuna, above all I think of Istria. She hit the exporters, even hit the tourism economy, but what we're going to do today is the way it is. I said that the citizens of the economy in charge of the 274 billion kuna were in 2010 and understandably that now the kuna should be kept as a pupil of its own eye. So once again to say, the Croatian National Bank in 2010 and 2011 is a factor in stability, not destruction. Perhaps employees are in a more privileged position there than elsewhere, but let's let it go now and normally support the people who are at the head of these institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2408	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ club, representative of Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Governor, fellow MPs. We have a 2010 report ahead of us, and it was really long behind us, and the economic circumstances of 2010 certainly changed, and then perhaps a big debate on this report seems unnecessary, but I think the opportunity when we discuss the work of the Croatian National Bank in 2010 is also the opportunity to maybe learn some lessons, to draw some conclusions from the times behind us, and to the benefit of the time ahead. Since the main goal that we all must achieve together is to revive, accelerate and achieve stable economic growth is certainly still ahead of us, and then there is certainly monetary policy and the Croatian National Bank. Surely in 2010, the National Bank met its basic objectives as it was given by law, price stability including this specific price, i.e. the course of the Croatian kuna and the stability of the banking system was preserved. At first, I would like to say that I think that the preservation of the stability of the banking system is certainly one of the results to be entered in plus the Croatian National Bank and, as the deputy governor pointed out to a good extent, is the consequence of the anti-cyclical prudential policy that the National Bank led before the crisis, which also resulted in the high capitalisation of our banks, the percentages mean a ratio of activity and capital that is much higher than in the developed countries today and which have essentially enabled Croatia to face the costs of resuscitating and stabilising the banking system, which has been the case of many more developed countries than we have. And I think it is certainly one of the significant assets that we are carrying during this period of crisis, which I believe has contributed to the government's timely decision to increase the amount of secured savings deposits by further strengthening and supporting the activities of the Croatian National Bank on the stability of the banking system. And just when I'm talking about it, then the combination of the activities that the National Bank has taken from its part of the circle to preserve the stability of the system, together with support in part of the deposit insurance, is a good example of coordinating the activities of monetary and other economic policies, that is, the rest of which is the government's jurisdiction. But what I would agree with the previous speakers, but perhaps not necessarily for the same reasons they pointed out. One important issue I would like to raise today is the general issue of the coordination of monetary and fiscal policy, i.e. the question of whether the National Bank understands personally well the limits in which monetary policy works, but I still believe that this is the moment to discuss whether, which is why the coordination of monetary and fiscal policy in the past period may not have been at the height at which it should have been. In other words, whether the Croatian National Bank and whether monetary policy instruments could have been used more strongly to mitigate the decline in economic activity. Because understanding the constraints stemming from high euroisation, restrictions which therefore prevent monetary policy in Croatia may be guided in a way that is large economies. It's clear and I think we'll agree that monetary policy is the first and the one that works much faster in times of stabilisation has shorter times, has shorter deadlines, reacts faster. And it is my impression that over the past period a lot of this coordination space has been spent in the discussion of who will act first, whether it needs monetary or fiscal, why not fiscal, and why it would act monetary. I think such a debate has been in the past too much. I think that they are still going on in a certain way today, and the point of the answer is that economic time is difficult and that it requires coordinated action by both policies with all the instruments at their disposal. In 2010, monetary policy was expansional, reducing the minimum reserve rate. In early 2011. Then she tried once again to make an expansion move and help economic activity by reducing the ratio of foreign currency assets and liabilities. In fact, my question is whether it is stronger, more timely and timely by acting in monetary policy in 2010. It was possible to contribute to economic activity, better expectations and ultimately a lower drop in economic activity in 2010. This may be an academic issue today, but I am actually stressing this issue here for the sake of time ahead and doing I think the lessons we should learn, which is that coordination of the two policies is very important, that exhausting in the debates who first, who when and who at which point the waste of time, rather than that monetary policy respecting its independence, respecting everything that is given to the Croatian People's Bank must also give its greatest contribution to the recovery of the economy. Another question that I would like to address in this debate is the issue of the financial outcome of the Croatian National Bank and the fact that it is in 2010. The Croatian National Bank earned just over 2 billion kunas, that the profit is the result of exchange rate differences of 1.9 billion kuna, exchange rate differences that have not been realised. And then the following Law on the Croatian National Bank. There was no budget revenue and there was no benefit for the budget from the management of state assets called foreign reserves managed by the CNB. At the same time, why there was no profit available for the budget is that the interest income in 2010 compared to 2009 is precisely income from the management of the CNB reserves reduced by 60% compared to 2009. Taking into account the developments in interest rates, taking into account the fact that interest rates on the international market in the second half of 2010, however, showed even some growth and even small banks were able to reach higher interest rates in the second half of 2010 than in the first half of 2010. I believe the CNB could have done the same. So I think this is a place where the question should be raised and in some future report and more detailed answers to how the reserves are managed, where the reserves are held, where the banks are held, what is the status and position of these banks? And these issues are not only important because of the revenue generated from the management of state reserves, but also because the crisis is around us, banks fail, countries fail. Both the CNB and the Republic of Croatia, together with it, I think we should pay greater attention to where its reserves are located, in which forms, in which instruments and what happens to them. And to return to 2010 then we can see in the report that in 2010, the CNB completely stopped holding reserves in bank bonds. Which is good. That it has to a certain extent reduced the holding of reserves in the form of government securities, however, we do not see which securities it purchases and which state the CNB buys. And what we also notice is that in 2010, the reverse repo contracts were doubled, but the rating of banks with which these repo contracts were concluded is also worsen. So what I would be particularly interested in here is also related to the result of the CNB and the quality of reserve management, if on the one hand the rating of banks with which the reverse repo contracts are concluded, how is it possible that this is a 60% reduction in interest income? Therefore, in the 2011 Report, which I expect will be very soon in front of this House, I would expect this segment to be better processed in the report itself. Taking into account what I said at the outset, which is that the CNB has achieved the objectives given by law in terms of price stability, that it has made significant efforts in the quality of supervision of the banking system, the preservation of the stability of the HDZ banking system will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2410	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's representative applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2411	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Governor, Your Honor, I'm interested in one question that causes a lot of suspicion in the public, and we still don't have a concrete answer to it, and the question dates back to a long time back in 1993. I am interested in whether the business banks that were designated by the CNB, and the basis of the Law, as banks that would liquidate the Jugobanka branches in Rijeka, Zagreb and Split, have done their job and where is the property, or have they acted according to the law, in special accounts, both financial assets and real estate, where are they? Namely to remind ourselves of the public what the Law on how to liquidate the business of the main branches of Jugobanke d.d. Belgrade, which did business in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so which law was passed in 1993, had the obligation to liquidate these operations in the main branches? I repeat in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. In the winding-up operations of the main branches, they were obliged to make the payment of the claims of the main branches from legal and natural persons to separate them into special accounts, as soon as they came to such funds so as to collect the claims of the main branches and at the level of the claims collected spotably and in time to pay the obligations to the trustees of the main branches. It is not a secret that leads to the dispute with the Republic of Croatia in the demand of more than 10 million dollars and 90 million then dinars, together with the corresponding interest on behalf of the accreditation and credit that these banks gave to the INA at the time of the former Yugoslavia. In addition, Jugobanka blames the Privredna banka Zagreb for not charging claims, and what it should have done as the liquidator of the Jugobanka branch in Rijeka. The liquidator of the branch was the Rijeka RI-ADRIA bank, which was later taken over by the PBZ, and in disputes occurred, of course, according to the law as it should have been in the name and for the account of the Yugoslav Republic. And she's looking now, so this Yugoslav girl from Belgrade d.d. It's asking for the total amount. We are now letting aside what kind of claim it is, and whether the Jugobank really has the right to bankruptcy in the first place and whether it is authorized to make demands for liquidators, however, the CNB is very authorised and legally bound by that '93 law. the years to ask questions about what is the property, or the CNB, is overseeing the liquidation. We have knowledge or the public is aware that some of these banks have entered into the property of these properties, workers, for example in Split, although they have received a judicial dispute, they have long lost their jobs. Despite a court ruling to report, to return to work, they have nowhere to go. They want to even collect their claims from immovable property, but let's put aside now, and I'm interested in what basis this business bank can do without any compensation to keep the property for it not authorized, for it is not obliged because it has a job only liquidation. Please give me a more concrete answer, we do not expect it to be to burden your report, but please a very specific answer, not entering all the litigation between these banks with some other legal entities, I am only interested in the relationship of the Croatian National Bank, as a bank that controls these business banks that have performed as liquidators.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2412	Thank you. I thank you for no more reports. We're done with an individual discussion. Do you want to contact the Proposer on behalf of him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2413	Thank you. Here's maybe just a few things. Here we go from the end. Thank you for this question, only if you can give me this in writing and then I will answer it in writing, I asked Mr Matic is the one, Mr Matic doesn't remember the same, but we will prepare an answer and we will deliver the written answer in detail to that question. Then there was Martin, what she said about two things about the monetary policy response. We've started so much liquidity, we've practically said we've maintained structural surplus liquidity until now, so we've further considered it many times in... the bank if there's anything else we can do and the conclusion was no. We created so much liquidity because banks hold 10 billion kunas in overnight deposits so that monetary policy simply had no space to do otherwise. What we can do, we can affect the interest rate on the interbank market that was on the historical minimum but if there is an aversion to the risk and a lack of demand that was combined on the bank's side, then that transmission mechanism no longer works. Now you can add another 5 billion to that 10 billion and nothing would happen, then those 5 billion would still end up in an overnight account at the Croatian National Bank. Although we have reduced the... overnight account, it was still not enough for the banks to encourage stronger credit activity, although it should be said that the private sector again to repeat in 2010 in Croatia were bigger, the growth of plasma than in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Poland, Slovakia, etc., so with this strong expansion we achieved something, it is not God knows what, we have a recession. Now we have a model in the last financial stability where we estimate the economical part that depends on demand and what part of the offer, obviously that demand was not on the side of demand, so the plasmas couldn't go and so adding additional liquidity can no longer help. But was it timely we did most of the things we did in 2008 so in 2008 we started right away, so as soon as the crisis started we freed up the liquidity of 10% of BDP and it stood there, something was credit to businesses but I say if there are structural problems in the economy and problems on the side of demand there is nothing to do. Getting the CNB is ever a green theme in the Parliament, we always go back to the CNB winnings. First, I repeat, I do not know how many times in the Parliament, the third-rate goal of the Croatian National Bank is, if you give us the law that our primary goal is to win, be sure we will be the most profitable company in Croatia, we guarantee it, we can achieve huge profits but at the expense of our basic goals. Our primary goal is not to achieve profits but to promote the economy, low inflation, stability of the financial system. Of course we're looking at profits, but with us first security funds, liquidity, and only then do we win if we look at the management of international reserves. Now... it seems strange that interest incomes fall and the rating banks are at... but that's because the rating of all the banks in 2009 went down and it went seven, eight nights. You no longer have to place money in Europe in AAA funds. You put money in pumpkins today, the German state bonds Bunds, popularly we call them pumpkins, if you put it in the safest place he has a negative rate. It means we're safe to make a negative contribution today. But these are Croatian funds, these are not CNB funds we need to ensure primarily that it is safe regardless of the contribution, we cannot now run after the contribution when we do not know whether any of the major banks in Europe will still operate tomorrow. We had big banks in front of bankruptcy. Where we used to have funds, so we pulled them back. If we look at the 2010 profit. The CNB normalized for the international reserves it manages we are one of the 10% of banks in the euro with the highest contribution. I have this data, because I can't share information about which banks we keep money in, otherwise we're one of the most transparent central banks to the public, according to you MPs about how we manage the reserves, we can't talk about where the placement is, I think it's clear. Now maybe there were a lot of questions about banks, banks having profits, I might just sum it up with one warning, banks yes, they were profitable in 2010 had a 7% return on capital. Now the public in the Assembly I hear are angry people, banks are profitable, they make a lot of money and here, let's be very careful what we want, do we want Croatian banks not to be profitable. Let's think about the contexts of this, for the economy, for financial stability, for the reserves of the Croatian National Bank, for taxpayers, I wouldn't want to say that, I'm afraid it's a much worse variant than this if they were profitable. 7% of your return on capital at this point is lower than your contribution to the government bond. The investor is looking at where his relative investment is profitable, whether it's worth keeping the money in a bank that has such a return or putting in a government bond that the state guarantees him, this is where the state doesn't guarantee him. So be as careful as we want or don't want our banks to be profitable. Namely, we could do a lot worse otherwise we already had it remember when the banks weren't profitable in '99. Or remember when banks weren't profitable in the first half of the 1990s, how much did it cost us? 32% of GDP and 5% of GDP, we don't want it back. There were some questions Martin had already answered the question about the distribution to get he went according to the CNB Act. It's not an arbitrary decision we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2414	Excuse me, Mr. Vujcic, we're here communicating in the manner of Mrs. Martin's representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2415	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As for the currency clause, then maybe I won't be long, that was a long question. We really should be freaks to the CNB if those of us who run the CNB who issue the kuna as a currency wouldn't want the kuna to be the basic means of payment, savings and credit. Well, of course we want to. We've done everything we can to do so far. However, currency substitution, euroisation or once deutschmarkisation stems from the mid-'60s Yugoslavia. When we became an independent state, we had a situation that over 90% of the savings in Croatian banks were in German marks and we can't change it by any policy. We held a stable course, we had low inflation to restore people's trust in their own national currency. Why did they run away from the national currency? They ran away in the '60s, '70s, mostly in the '80s because they had constant periods of high inflation, hyperinflation, devaluation, and they realized that it wasn't worth keeping the money in the national currency we'd rather go to a foreign currency of the German mark that assures us that it keeps the value of our savings. In the early 1990s, you have a stable low inflation rate since '94, and then we've made an additional measure of one that asked the banks to put more capital aside to lend unfavourable borrowers. And it gave the banks a price incentive that they encourage banks to grow in kunas. And so we managed to reduce that euro from 85% to 65%. The same thing happened on the bank's active side, so loans fell from 85% to 67%. The crisis is coming, what are the Croats doing first? Everyone back to the euro. And our whole effort for a few years de facto in nine months puff disappears. So what do we do? We can't make people save in the kuna if they don't want to save. If they're saving in kuna if there's 80% of the savings in the euro, what's the bank doing? It gives credit indexed to hedge its currency position if it's not open to risk. It thus transfers the currency risk to the borrower. However, the bank takes credit risk. So you said the banks were free of risk, they weren't. It takes credit risk by transfer of exchange rate risk. In other words, if the borrower goes bankrupt because of the exchange rate change, then the bank no longer gets its loan back. And that was seen, for example, when the Swiss franc was to interpret how the exchange risk is transferred to credit risk. Now, you have to be extremely careful, if an administrative measure would try to change that to forbid indexed loans, what would it lead to? What happens to the use of risk? It's growing, the interest rate is rising and the loan offer is dropping. So we can do this, but we need to be aware not of the CNB because it's the Law on Mandatory Relations, but it can change, but if this is done, be very careful, the consequences that this can cause for the economy and financial stability. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2416	Thank you very much. This was very picturesque, plastic. I would suggest it was in the discussion that I hope you will appreciate the 2011 report that in such layman's terms a more appropriate summary. Thank you. Do you want to report to the board? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be when conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2417	The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 is the next point on which we should declare ourselves. The debate is closed. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the following conclusion: The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2010 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most of the vote by 118 in favour, against 1 and abstentions 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2418	We move to the next item of the agenda - Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency The Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency has submitted a report on the basis of Articles 21. The Financial Agency Act. You received the proposal by mail. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate is carried out by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2419	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In accordance with the mandate of the Minister of Finance, I have been given the authority to give a preliminary explanation today on the business of the Financial Agency for 2010. The main activity of the Financial Agency in 2010 was the implementation of a transition strategy already adopted by the Supervisory Board in 2009. The year, and its realization began in 2010. refers to the period as seen in the 2009 report by the end of this year 2012. Tax only a few key events that marked the financial agency's 2010 business. First, the most significant measure, i.e. the activity of this strategy, was the realization of the provision of extra employees. This is a 14-month-long measure in collaboration with our social partner and at the end of 2009, resulting in the adoption of this programme by the Employment Service of Excess Employees. With this programme, the Financial Agency has lost a thousand and 4 employees, which is more than 20%, and it certainly had a lot of implications that FINA with such a small number of employees must be reorganised and all the jobs and tasks and activities it has had to perform without the consequences that all the services we provide to the economy, according to the population, according to local regional self-government units, so according to all of our customers, it does not feel at its quality. The second major strategic business event, to call it, in 2010 was the separation of one part of the business, which is a business with cash from FINA in the special company of the daughter that has been operating today and has been operational since 3 May 2011 under the name FINA cash service d.o.o. It also had a consequence that we had to further consolidate in the FINA queen in the sense that we were re-organized and that jobs also did not lose quality, but also in the firm's daughter where business models had come and had to be redefined because, primarily, according to the requirements of the company's main company of business banks and other business entities, it had to be transparent. This required additional efforts, and I think today I can say with full responsibility that the business move is good because the cash business service involves the processing of cash, distribution of cash and other securities. Furthermore, during the year 2000, more specifically with 1.7, he was released into production of a project called Blue Elevator Payment Control or, as the profession says, motor oil colored in blue. Details of this would not, I think, also feel the effects of this positive and there is FINA within a maximum speed of 2.5 months, of course, together with one part of its business partners, have done this project and the savings that have been achieved and for the budget of the Republic of Croatia are very, very large. It's not my place to talk about savings, but also on the other hand and extra income for the Financial Agency. The project was further demonstrated by FINA that it can be reliable about its owner, which is the state. Furthermore, in the 3rd quarter of 2010, FINA was on the initiative of the then Office for Central Public Procurement of its own resources, so without income it carried out an initial application that is still being developed today for the needs of central and public procurement. It is a foundation that can be further upgraded and it is in some way the business role of FINA possibly in the future that we are further discussing this application and completing this programme for today's state office, so... for the central public procurement to live in the full sense of the word. The last quarter in particular, and I think it started in the 7th month, has started intensive activities and preparatory actions in the implementation of the Law on Fines on Monetary Assets released into office, i.e. whose application began in 1.1 last year, which is very well known to us. There would still be a lot of these projects that we had drawn up in our transition strategy done, but the initial difficulties stopped some other projects for reasons because we had to further engage both human resources and technical and technological resources because the first three months through the media you had the opportunity to hear there were a lot of problems in the field with the application of that law. Today, I can say that for the past few months, together with business banks, we have managed to get all the new foundations in real time for the implementation of the money to be solved in real time, so day after day. Only these few listed activities and the measures we implemented in 2010 resulted in FINA ending a number of years of negative financial results and sumarum sumarum, as a result of which a positive business result was achieved. As you can see from the report, gross profit has been achieved at a height of 77 million and 309,000 kuna. It might take too long for me to go into your structure and income and expenditure, but you can see for yourself that the revenues are from '09. A year down 3%. One of the reasons is that some of the jobs that we do, primarily payment traffic, which is still the main part of the income structure, simply for technical and technological reasons, goes slowly into the history store. It's because of m-banking, Internet banking, etc. However, cash payments, therefore cash payments, and primarily there are our clients' population still not only to maintain it at the same level, the same level, but also the quantitative number of security orders is increasing. So that's the additional trust our clients have, which is the population they have towards the Financial Agency. One such quick review towards the organisational structure and the number and structure of employees. Also at 1.1.'10. FINA started a completely new organisational structure at the macro-region. This administration headed me in 2008 found 13 sectors, we reduced them to six sectors. We found, when I was talking about structural units, about 210 construction units, more than half of them were cut apart for reasons of cross-sectoral communication within the FINA, and also for the very efficiency of our services. And that also certainly resulted in a decrease in the number of leading positions, the number of unnecessary construction units and the like. So, in part, it also had consequences for the positive result achieved in 2007. About the sectors themselves, I wouldn't, but I just... Two sectors are our business sectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the business sector, the public sector service sector. So that's that agency part that the Financial Agency is doing. Another business sector is the Financial Industry Services Sector and Corporate Clients. So, business banks, financial institutions, trading chains and everything else. So there's, and those inside have 14 centers... The centers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three sectors are sectors that function in these two business sectors. So these are support or logistics sectors. It's the Information Sector which is the heart of everything. Because 90% of our business, our service, etc. It's based on exactly the logistics support of this sector. The second sector is the Human Resources Management and Corporate Support Sector. The name itself tells you what it's about. And the third sector of support is the sector of strategic planning and corporate finance. The biggest sector is the Business Network Sector. You'll hear that later when I tell you about the number of employees. It is through it that all these sectors that generate product services that reflect, so through this business network that is distributed throughout Croatia we provide services to all above mentioned clients. The total number of locations where we operate through the Business Network Sector is 197 and through the 4 regional centres as the most construction units within the Business Network Sector, through 18 branches, 143 businesses, 21 facilities and 11 separate counters. Graduation is done by the basis and number of services, type of services, character of services or products we offer to our clients. Number of employees. As you can see from 31.12.2010 FINA ends with 2976 employees. The number relative to the previous year's ninth with the same date was reduced by 1396. So that's the 1004 that's taken care of in the care program, and the other part is the employees who went into the company's daughter's FINA cash service. Otherwise, the net salary which is not a data you shouldn't say here is 5610 kuna net. I mean, it's way below average. The other financial industries, to put it this way, especially the banking sector, but also far and far, and the others from the bottom we are at net wages of all public and state-owned companies. We are an agency, but we do business under the Company Act. Now that I mention it, I have to say that maybe some prejudices about us breaking up, some of us treating us to live off the budget or that most of the income business is being made the basis of our government owner's decisions. It's not like that. The total income structure in 2010 was that we had 67% of our commercial activity and 23% of our agency business. Here's just a few more sentences. Qualification structure is next. At 31.12.2010, she had 585 employees, which is 20%, with a high school capacity of 422 workers, which is 14%, with a medium professional background of 1919, which is 64% and remains of KV, VKV or lower, there were 47 employees who accounted for 2%. What's not encouraging, and well that I wouldn't be misunderstood that year, the experience that's been criticised, and that's the age structure that it is. Just to say the average of FINA, we in FINA are on average 48.3 years old. But that doesn't mean we're not competent. But just through the strategy that I mentioned earlier, through the announcements of new opportunities that FINA can provide in the agency, but also in that commercial part, it has already followed several competitions last year where we receive all profiles of trainees and prepare them to take over the main commitments today, in the sense that FINA is more positively positioned in the longer term and to maintain the image and role it plays in the country today. Liquidity related to liquidity. Regardless of the difficulties of 31.12.2010 FINA did not have a single June of outstanding claims. That was the whole of 2010, but also last year and today. Only the deadlines for the claims were extended in 2010 compared to the ninth. Probably because of these difficulties in business. So the recession, the economic crisis, so the average billing of our claims was 185 days in 2010, and the days of payment to our suppliers were 60 days. So, no matter what three times the payment deadline for our claims is compared to our payments to suppliers, we didn't have any liquidity problems. I even think we've contributed to the overall liquidity being maintained and improved. And regardless of these difficulties generally speaking in the economy as regards FINA, in 2010, there were 50 million 930 thousand investments. Only three of the most important items in IT equipment are invested 23 million and 30 thousand kuna, in construction and craft work 12 million and 900 thousand kuna and other equipment, and this includes office furniture and cargo vehicles of 14 million and 270 thousand kuna. So, investments in what is needed, which is why there would be no questionable functioning in providing our services, services and products, so there was no savings. However, there are certain things that have happened in the sense that it does not go into investing something that does not have income coverage, or that there is no cover in the business solution that our clients are looking for. In short lines, that would be it. And just let me put one more sentence on last year's '11. This positive business trend has continued. So according to the preliminary results I received a few days ago, FINA should in the last year 2011 achieve 78 million 530 thousand kuna gains, which is a million and 300 thousand kuna more than it was in 2010. ... further because this transition strategy is not only about consolidation, cost reduction, rational behaviour, but also about finding new revenues, so we are on our way, and this will be in last year's report that FINA... some new products, new services, new services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in a year or so, it was said that much earlier this year's report should be, even though we, or the FINA Supervisory Board, sent this report to the government in six months last year. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2420	Thank you. Do you want the board president? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Reguar, colleagues and colleagues. On 2 January 24th, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Annual Report on the Business of the Financial Agency, which was in accordance with the provisions of Article 21 of the Croatian Parliament. The Financial Agency Act was submitted by the Supervisory Board of the FINA Act of 15 June 2011. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as the home working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament also held a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has no objection to this year's report on the business of the Financial Agency in 2010. We heard the opening statement of FINA representatives, and in the discussion, the Committee pointed out: that FINA managed to stabilise in its business in 2010 and, with a significant number of workers, to implement planned projects aimed at providing as high-quality services as possible to all interested users. It was warned that the Annual Business Report of the FINA should contain more information on the business of the FINA business units and the justification and analysis of the situation and circumstances in which they were operating. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget decided to unanimously submit the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: the Annual Report on the FINA's 2010 business is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2422	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. Mr Grubisic, the HDSSB club, first signed up. I can't see him. He's losing his right to argue. The second registered on behalf of Croatian Labourers representative Mr Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In these late hours we talk about something that is actually pace to pass, we received a 2010 report in 2012. Of course we will accept that report, we have nothing else to do with it, but that is not how this Parliament should function. We should get that report a day, two or a week, two after the FINA makes it up, or what the FINA leaders get all the information relevant for the production of such reports. This really doesn't make any sense. FINA made a profit of 77.3 million kuna in that year, which is commendable and beautiful and larger than planned. It is especially convenient because the primary business of the FINA therefore deals with the payment traffic of other institutions, deals and banks, and I say all of this to other financial institutions and within that competitive environment, FINA manages to survive and manage to make a profit. But we've heard already what are the ways to get it. One part of the reduction in the number of jobs, another part of the acquisition of certain services that had not been done before, is clearly possible. 2 976 people were employed in the FINA. Is it a lot or a little hard to judge someone who isn't exactly a narrow expert on the area? I can believe it's an optimal number. What's definitely not good is that 64% of those people with medium professional equipment, and only 20% with high professional equipment. It's clear to me that this average pays as we've heard, and apparently even leading places aren't much better paid, people with high-end expertise find it hard to come especially those who get along in finance, who are experts in this area, who know something about it. Of course he's going to go to any bank or worse and he's going to have five or ten times the salary. But it's something you should think about. This is the agency that is actually the only company of that kind that owns the state and through which the state can achieve certain objectives, intentions, certain political moves if necessary and similar. It's bad that the qualification structure is so bad. If there's anything I need to do, I think it's the first step the company should invest in, and it's quite safe to invest in people, it's the best investment. I wouldn't even analyze what's in it because it's already gone, but we can't influence it in any way, I'd just mention two things that hit me visually and negatively in the report. FINA is a socially sensitive company that sponsors a lot of things, which sponsors, some examples are inside, but FINA is a state-owned company, is it actually correct that a state-owned company points out that a lot of things is sponsored. We need help to help culturally artistic societies and scientists and artists and students and they need state aid but the question of whether a state-owned company should help in such a way without the knowledge of its owner and be a broad sponsor. Also, FINA has been socially and extensively funded by the union, which is also seen from the report, there is something called FINA sport, so people go to sports games, organized, the company goes to sports games, the company organises it and pays what is equally commendable, people have to deal with sports and recreation and workers have to be healthy and all this expensive stuff, it's just a question of who pays. Whose account this is going on, I think in this situation is the concept of all these discussions that we've had in Parliament for the last two or three days and last week and last week I think it's not correct and I don't think that at least that kind of thing should be pointed out. If they're made, they're made in a smaller volume and they don't stand out like this because it just pops out of the connotation of all the conversations we've had in the last few days. What's not in there, what I expected would be to be is to prepare FINA for the cash business. What FINA took over as a job in 2011, as a task and began to perform, there is a small passage that says we were preparing. In 2011, these activities began to be implemented and started to be implemented in a strange way. It sat on people's complete accounts, including children's allowances and social incomes and all that, with an explanation that FINA wasn't teamed up enough to take care of the implementation of this Act, although I don't know how a state-owned company can enforce the law without respecting the law, that's my contradiction, but that's how it happened. DA's not teamed up enough, so that's what happened. Then people were instructed that they had to open special accounts and similar to that so that those receipts could otherwise not be carried out on special accounts, this adjustment period only lasted half a year until such cases became rare, and in this 2010 report there are 4 rares about preparing for this job that for Croatian citizens in the job-free crisis, 300 and so many thousands of unemployed, 60% of employees get paid below average wage and similar, important jobs. I expected it to take place here, and I expected it to take up a nice big passage to see what Finna had done, and yet it happened in 2011 to the people who had made the cash. Maybe the regulation's bad, maybe. In that case, FINA should have given the initiative to change the regulation. To change the regulation in such a way that the regulation can be fully implemented, these people are not put into a situation that once everything is blocked alive and that they cannot actually survive. If that's it, I think it's the managing wheeler, if it's an inequitable reson, I can say that only this kind of composition is highly professionally difficult to carry out such a step without being peed and stairs that we haven't seen. BUT we will see the 2011 report, I hope soon, by the end of the spring before this summer, and we will be able to compare something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2424	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS MP Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2425	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Reguar, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, FINA has extraordinary resources, knowledge, technology, tradition even though part of business has changed, i.e. part of business powers have changed over time, i.e. legal regulations, FINA has an exceptional position as the Agency, a position in payment and money management. But through this report we see a lot of questionnaires in terms of having visions, but we don't have a defined status yet. The report was created I must say on behalf of the HNS Club like one promotional material for existing potential clients, for unnecessary phrases, and not as a serious document which provides a comprehensive display of the financial indicators of a financial agency. Number of employees with average regular income per employee are missing indicators of business by sectors, business centres, analysis within the income and expenditure sector, in order to make it clear and comparable in which segments of FINA advances or stagnates. Even the report states that the establishment of a monitoring system for key performance indicators and comparative comparisons of the business remained clearly hidden from this report to the Croatian Parliament. There's no comparative property management data, and we know that the property is one of the major segments managed by FINA. But that is why it is said that FINA is here we have already heard a socially sensitive company with a special display of roles in the wider social community, and that it has a cost of 4 000 600 kuna to donate expenditure equipment. And as already said, even the union is being helped, I will refrain from commenting, but fortunately there is only one and it is said that a million 770 thousand kunas have been allocated for donations, so it would be good to know how, by whom, by which criteria when FINA boasts with its role in society. The report that we received in this High House, or some report by the CNB, has one aspect of the report by the Statistics Institute, but it is not bad because one comprehensive analysis and review can be obtained in this segment. But I have to repeat this on behalf of the club before it looks like one client brochure. And it's not definitely a document that needs to be reviewed and that's serious and that's expected from a state agency. For example. not only in general, the text states as the most important business event in 2010 co-operation with Credifax but also financial effects and analysis when the most important events are absolutely lagging behind. So the report extends to the whole to tell the story of market orientation and clients, and it has already been said, cited on the implementation of the Executive Act on monetary assets that have been launched in the FINA business since January 2011. And we can't touch that segment no matter what the 2010 report is, because one specific example, why does the FINA if it's already turned to the market and to the clients as you say, closes its part of the deal at 13 o'clock, while banks release their orders by 15. A client who hasn't secured the funds for the performance until 13 o'clock can't be unblocked even though he has the funds he gets between 13 and 15 o'clock at the bank and it's written on the day of the blockade. It puts his business at risk because he can't report to a public tender. I don't know why a customer's turn to adjust his hours and ensure clients can function normally. We will discuss fees and fees in the 2011 report. And as you say FINA should be a partner to the state, FINA is owned by the state, and you must be a partner to the economy. Finally, since it is 2010 that the business year has been successfully achieved, a complex situation with extra workers has been concluded, the HNS Club will vote for the report, noting that if the reporting method is not corrected, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2426	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2427	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Regvar, Director of FINA. Partly is the most important comments on this report have been made. 2010 was a long time ago. I think that this report was in a certain way included in the agenda of the previous call, that the former government was also positive about it and the current government was positive for it so as to say that the HDZ Club would support this report. However, I would take this opportunity and point out to you that a report for the Assembly must be prepared in a better way, starting with these fine letters that I can barely see, and to everything that the report should contain in order to properly understand what it is and what it is doing and what its results are, because I think this report is a unique opportunity for certain aspects and the work of certain ministries to be met. I therefore expect that the 2011 report in this part of the content will be much more quality than this which is now in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2428	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Director. I will look only at one aspect of the action of FINA, and that is when it was given the authority to carry out the financial claims of citizens but also all legal persons. I can say that, despite the Law on the rule of conduct which speaks out of the fact that certain payments cannot be seized primarily in receipts, they cannot be seized greater than two-thirds of the salary, pension or other income, that one third must always remain a citizen for his life. Equally, I can't prey on alimony, so I can't take all those social benefits. But the citizens were amazed, looking for the causes of the blockade of their accounts, and then their torments began. In general, they had to pay for them with a small pension, small salaries of large amounts, to find out at all what the legal basis of the blockade of accounts was. We're gonna have to seriously think about this here together, and I think we're gonna agree that one state agency can't charge for it. If it was a free and free service for a citizen when such enforcement was carried out by a court, then in any case, one state agency cannot do so. She acted really as if she were a private agency, that she was interested in profiting at each of her services, and that's what the citizens paid for. After that, before the law was amended, FINA was, and all of this the Government observed deaf, dumb and blind without acting, she was invited to act, she did not act but, in fact, tolerated the adoption of a rule that was against the law at the time. What is particularly worrying, therefore, is that when such behaviours from a state agency were possible, then they also came forward because it was a message that those who love to hunt in a cloudy way used, and then they piled up those who have never had enough and whose state has never stepped on their tails, and I hope that they will do so to our common forces for the benefit of the citizens, that they cannot be peeled over every measure. Namely, the various multinational companies that almost appeared monopolisticly in Croatia because they are agreeing with each other, and then we can really say that they have a monopoly even though there are more, more providers of the same service, they have charged out-of-date claims and they have charged claims that have already been charged. Have any of these ever been eligible under the Penal Code for illegal payment or for the attempted illegal charge? No one. Eventually, if a citizen were to find a home amongst his papers that he had such a company, such a company would want to recharge and have such evidence, it would eventually save him from such a claim that it had soared to unsuspecting interest rates. I can say that many of them are shaken letters not only that I get, you've all been getting letters from our citizens, shows that have talked about because our media has talked a lot about not being the government at the time, but they've also been worried about the FINA themselves. What does the citizens actually want and what are their expectations? In fact, no one argues that debt must be paid but act in such a way, contrary to everything and to the spirit of the law itself, and to some of its express norms, I find it inadmissible. Many people have raised, and this morning one lady writes that she has taken out a loan so she can pay off, because she has lost her job, her husband is sick, so one standard situation, because when a citizen gets into trouble, she's not the only one. So where'd she get one of the people with disabilities? People were in charge so they could borrow one situation from friends, from neighbors, all of it had to be returned. But especially, so the explanation of FINA was then a citizen, as the law predicts, it was in subsequent changes, establishing their own special accounts. And why harass citizens please nice when FINA has a review of all transactions of all natural and legal persons. Well, we didn't, you have a review of all the transactions, you do, but it doesn't seem to them because it's the easiest thing for a citizen to block an account. And I'm asking you how many big companies you've blocked accounts to pay the workers' wages. You haven't come to that yet, but okay, now it's all too much to talk about anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2430	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2431	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Reguar. In my presentation, I will try to point out certain shortcomings I have seen in this report, i.e. in the data we received in the 2010 FINA Work Report. I won't repeat what my colleagues said about the problem that we are now discussing in 2012 but well, here it is. I read the report, and really here's what my colleague Gjurkovic was saying, it's at the level of a promotional brochure where the public gets acquainted with the work of the Financial Agency, with the work being good and I don't really have any objections. I support your work in that part, I'm glad you're involved in socially useful activities, I'm glad that there's an increase in sales points for electronic tolls for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, indeed commendable. However, in your report, we have only recently learned that the remaining operating costs of the agency amounted to more than 43 million kuna. In the report, there is no record of what other operating costs are. We have been informed that the extraordinary expenditures amounted to more than 40 million kunas, and we are not fully aware of what these expenditures were, which caused them to be, which is why these expenditures exceed the plan, which is why they are more than twice as high as in 2009. We are aware that service costs amounted to more than 173 million kunas, but we do not know which services, who provided these services, how they were obtained. As my colleagues used to say, the amendments to the Executive Act made the Financial Agency one of the headquarters institutions of Croatian society. According to the information I received from the Minister of Justice through the Financial Agency in 2011, if I'm not mistaken, 17 billion kunas are charged, maybe even more. If I'm wrong, please correct me. So it's about one of the institutions that are incredibly important for the work and operation of the Republic of Croatia today. I therefore believe, and my colleagues will agree, that we have the right to know how money is spent by the Financial Agency. The flat-rate indication that 40 million kuna was spent on extraordinary expenditures, 43 million kuna for other costs, or 173 million kuna for service costs is not enough. Namely, when we deprive the costs of the FIN from the expenditure of the employees, when we separate the depreciation of the expenditure amounts to cca 310 million kuna. Of these, only the flat-rate mention of the way 256 million kuna was spent. So out of 310 million kunas, we have data for some 55 million kunas, and it's flat-rate, but it's kind of working to read what it's all about. I'm not implying that money was spent wrong, I'm not saying that you were doing something wrong, but I think that part of the report is missing and that you have to complete it. As I said, after a year and something we're discussing in 2010, I hope soon we'll get a report on 2011 and please complete that report with this information, and if you have them, and I believe you have information about this, that you now inform this House of what the money was spent on. Furthermore, I am interested in how the external independent audit of FINA’s operations was carried out and what are the findings of these audits. Unless I'm asking you to let me know. And finally, since the colleagues were talking about the problems of carrying out the performance on the financial assets of the perpetrators, I won't be long. However, I will ask you, as my colleagues have done before, that such an exercise is carried out in a way that is at least burdensome for those who have unfortunately been put into a situation or have themselves brought into a situation so that they cannot pay their own dues and that they must therefore be subject to forced payment. Here's the esteemed Mr. Reguar, I'd like you to give me some answers and I'd like to ask you to update this information in the future report on the work of the Financial Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2432	Thank you. For individual debate, Mr. Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2433	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Reguar. Here's not good when reports come this late for discussion, especially when someone's in transition. There are mistakes in these situations. There may be something better and better quality solution and better quality suggestions, and they are late. A good part of my predecessors said, so I'm going to cut short what I wanted to talk about, and what was basically wrong. You've seen it yourself from previous exposure. I'm going to try to use this as a single link with the inaccuracies of state revenue. You know very well that we have a FINA, so we have a little REGOS, so we have a little IRS, and then we have business banks, so we carry little forms, we carry a little orders, we promise because no one commits us, we promise to pay for it, so we miss the deadline one, the second, the third, and then it accumulates so neither the legal person or the natural person can settle their obligations anymore, and the state has only great claims. Namely, FINA has exceptional resources, and the one by me is the most important sure base. And you have such a base that it should be when we agree to some cubes to put the dice together in such a way that the FINAs give far greater importance than so far and that the FINAs are ultimately brought to the end of the warrant after of course control and that this payment is far, far more quality. And I think it should be used. It shouldn't be forgotten or thrown away. There is also information equipment, and I expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will have to do something to give you far greater importance because of these problems with charge. Here's not gonna say what my predecessors have been saying so far, but I'd like to draw attention to one moment. There in the report you can see that construction facilities carry somewhere by bookkeeping value around their Circ. 800, slightly below 800 million kuna. If we went to re-valorate them, I think we could multiply them, and that would certainly be a billion-and-a-half value of the objects that Finna has. Because at least in the cities I know, they're in the best locations, in the best places. And it's an extraordinary resource that I don't think is used enough. Because now that we've reduced or you've reduced by this 1396 number as it says on page 11 even though that information is not correct because FINA got a new one. She received FINA cash services from 499 employees on 31.12.2010. But good. When you've already reduced that number, that resource has remained the construction facilities unused. Today I can speak for the FINA in Požega half the space and that is the most attractive location. Half the space is untapped. The offices yawn empty, and what's not good is that this property isn't put into operation, so I'll tell you for example that the State Inspectorate, that the State Audit, that some of our agencies are today in private rented buildings with high prices per square that they pay and that state property remains unused. So here's the direction I think we should take, so not just FINA, but the entire government has to take it to put their outstretched units in places where we have places, and not abuse them, I'm going to say, and abuse what we shouldn't do or do. I wouldn't bother anymore, and it's too late, but I'm saying I wanted to use this in this direction to try and fix the wrong Drina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2434	Thank you. Mr. Regvar, on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2435	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't start from the end, but from one general assessment that you all took part in the debate right. This report is a synthetic report. It has been a practice so far that in this form we have inherited it to go to the government. Otherwise, this report, which was delivered to the Supervisory Board, is a dozen times, on pages larger with all the analyses, quite elaborated, so complete analysis. But this practice is simply taken over and I cannot assume this obligation that the next report will be supported. But the gentleman will be answered in writing to your questions, and surely with full responsibility, I say that any shown information can be documented, and surely then it would be easier to discuss and better understand certain things. But now I'd still start from the beginning. Donations, trade unions, sponsorships or personnel structure. That's 2010. Meanwhile, the circus was employed by a 70-year-old public tender of trainees of all profiles with an emphasis on FER informers, FOJs. So today, the KV structure is already something different than it was 31.12.2010. Realizing that without fresh blood, it's gonna be hard to go through with everything that's been drawn in, let's just say in the middle-term plans. Besides, we've lost a lot of competent people in the care program, because it's gone that had conditions regardless of the years, to early retirement. But we've had enough competent people gone. And it's inevitable and it's been trying to catch a step throughout 2011. And the qualification structure is not to have been radically improved, but it goes and during this year it is planned, the business plan has not yet been adopted waiting for the Supervisory Board to call a session. Draft is on the Supervisory Board, to adopt a business plan from which it is visible that the maximum goes to the education of the existing ones, not to be spared in postgraduate, is not to be spared from real professional training, not for shopping trips, but for professional training. Whether it is America or the EU anywhere, to acquire additional knowledge, additional competences. But it's going a good way. Sponsorships, these million 770 thousand kunas for each lip have in that analysis an explanation and primarily there are cultural, therefore culture, amateur sport, not one single professional club from any kind of sport has received sponsorship. They're here, even there's been social cases where they've been intervened since the fire was like that. So I think that even very, very modest means are relative to demands. There are demands, demands there are all kinds of cultural events, social cases and amateur sports. The union -- the union has its trust and it's not for union work. The union commissioners who are in the FINA have their own receipts under the Collective Agreement, they receive salaries and a refund of travel costs, etc. But it's not for their regular activity, it's for the trust from which they then intervene for certain social cases and the like. I don't think it's too much. There were also greater demands, but according to both the possibilities and the situation, etc., it was given to the union. There have been a lot of discussions there, but then I should have referred more to the 2011 Act on the implementation of the budget. FINA plays this important role, on its infrastructure, on its application it is all done. FINA has, it's true, all accounts, a unique account register. So, of all of us, no matter what bank we have, of all business entities, of all associations. So, everyone who does something that they have, they have money and they spend it or they pay the bills, we have all these bills. But FINA doesn't literally block, FINA just gets the basis for a blockade, court solutions, certified debtors, the body solutions of the state administration from the IRS, customs and I don't count now who they are. And we're getting a notice that someone has to settle a backlog, but we don't have an insight, we have a account number, but we don't have a checkout. Then we notify the bank and then the bank takes off the funds. It is true, normatively, it was not a sublegal act because they did not follow it to elaborate further and to make it clear to everyone who finds themselves in this situation that they are blocked, but in accordance with the legal regulations of not one, there are not a dozen exceptional receipts, that I do not now list them. And it should, in law, stand, but the implementing act does not stand in the way in which it should be handled. Now I think that we came after our media campaign to call it that and through the information we give and through lessons we give them at every 197 location throughout Croatia must be opened a special account for such funds. We can't automatically open it, but it must be opened by the one who receives these exceptional funds. Compensation – the truth is, this compensation for our part of the work we do regulates the Regulation on fees for the work done. We take according to that rulebook, price list or rulebook, each of our actions takes the total amount for a specific action that we do for the purpose. But that's not our total fee, I think the ratio of 60% of FINA is 40% of the bank. FINA did not determine this, but FINA has a cost, FINA has to engage its technical resources, FINA employs special human resources at the beginning when the application has not been completed yet we are at one point the second, third, fourth, fifth month of this year have hired a thousand people who have worked overtime and so on and on Fridays and on the world as they say. So it costs, but someone has to admit it because no one could bear it on the rest of the business. There is, the truth is there, there is still we've given a few suggestions like those that we encounter daily problems etc. We've made suggestions to intervene in the law itself, as well as in the implementing regulations itself. So, sublegal acts to improve that system of forced collection. But the unquestionable fact is that this, the introduction of this really led to discipline, protection of creditors, a better relationship between creditors and debtors, a fixation of the situation on the financial market and legal certainty where certain legal solutions are expected to take place. The profession, not just me, but those who are longer and better familiar with all the reforms that have been in place, in which it has been participated by FINA that this is the biggest project let's say it, is now something to mean in production behind REGOS in terms of reforming the overall social events. The truth is there is no agency in the Republic of Croatia, a company that has better infrastructure given the connection that has better registers than... You know we've got a dozen registers, I'm not picking them up now. The possibility to have other registers, but then there needs to be a wider coordinated action to connect it with other institutions, and then it would be quickly resolved and control of the collection of contributions, control of excise fees and everything else. There are possibilities, but then if I were talking about it, I should be talking more about the 11th year, and that will be seen about the effects of some at the age of 11. Here is the register of the last register that we have done is the register of public and state officials, which is the first step in one significant project, which is the central account of the salaries and management of human resources, I hope that by the end of the year that this project will be achieved. The owner in FINI has a great fortune, I said the day before yesterday on the Committee on Finance and Budget that our networks are not on their own because of the location it's one value, because Erupa when there's something similar to what we have she from that agency is creating unique points of contact. We have through some of our services and services but there are still so many reserves that human resources could be better exploited, so the information resources in the database we have but I would burden you too much if I were to discuss the details. Mr. Honorable Representative Ronko says real estate, or object. I think that the market value regardless of the crisis that you and, therefore, the real estate market would be at least 2.5 times what the book value of construction facilities is to be greater. But that part is 10th and especially last year, as far as I can tell, it was done by FINA. We didn't ask for any elaborate, no expertise from foreign, foreign and domestic consulting companies, but we started managing real estate in an adequate way. First it's a public tender that we must call, wherever we had interest we brought users of space. It is primarily 99.9% of cases involving state administration bodies or local authorities of local self-government or regional self-government. It is missing, I apologize, in... we were with the Agricultural Payment Agency, you know better, you followed that harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union it was one of the conditions for closing the chapter in agriculture. We had agreed with them that with all the county centres where we have, except in Osijek we didn't have, we didn't even have in Bjelovar, it was about 6800 squares of agreed, measured but the signing of the contract didn't take place. On the other hand, we had candidates, and that's where FINA lost 300,000 euros if it hadn't happened. And that's a condition because the security conditions that we have, the video surveillance, the protection that Europe is asking for that agency, there's no one better, but it hasn't happened, the only problem is in smaller areas, the businesses where you're making progress, the real estate is big, we can't, especially in these moments that everything, just all business spaces of quality space, elite locations that we can't rent. We didn't suck, we moved out of town as a centre with all those sectors on the Garden Road behind the VIP, and we freed Vukovar and we freed Koturaska but we introduced state-owned companies, government bodies, employment services and everything else. The net effect on only these two locations and filling the others in Zagreb is only at these locations 10 million kuna. If I didn't get into the details now, Mr. Honorable Representative would get written, there are still questions here, perhaps if I were to answer now it would turn out defensively too much but behind each of this data... stands the argument for both those basic expenses and for donations and for all, so that there you are all right, simply took over practice as it has been, on the Supervisory Board each member of the Supervisory Board gets at least so much material for each individual item. I don't know, maybe I skipped something else important, I think I've answered at least globally the most important questions that are bothering you because the reports don't show what it's about, but I repeat, FINA has potential and has resources and only for the end, and I have to go back to the 11th time the project is launched and will be released and mediaed by the beginning of February of the month, which is that in the context of education, we've highly educated 100 people who will be on the disposition of the economy, local self-government, regional self-government, population, who have mastered the full methodology of making business plans or projects based on which can be applied for the European funds. But precisely because of the great engagement of people, the human potential on these performances could not have been put before all users but in February that part goes, but it will only be in the report for the 11th year. I apologize to all of you if I haven't answered all the questions, if anyone else in writing will get more from the Financial Agency than the honourable Mr. Representative, the answers in terms of clarification of any item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2436	Thank you very much, Mr. Reguar. I believe they will respect these remarks by the MPs and will adjust the methodology that will be acceptable to this House. I'm closing the debate. The session continues tomorrow at 9:30, the first item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, see you in the morning. Thank you very much, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-26-0.u2437	Annual report on the financial agency's business. The debate is closed. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the following conclusion: The Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2010 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the conclusion was accepted by a majority vote with 121 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we mark the International Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust, the victims of the most terrible crime in mankind's history. Today 67 years ago, relief troops entered Auschwitz. For the survivors in the camp, it was the end of torture, humiliation, murder and suffering. For mankind, it was only the beginning of facing incomprehensible proportions of the extreme inhumanity and evil designed by the human mind, and they had spent human hands. Although there was only one in a series of death camps, Auschwitz is today a synonym for Nazi crimes and an attempt to exterminate the Jewish people, as well as others so-called. "Nearian races" on the ground of Europe. Nazi and fascist ideology has been defeated, but millions of people who have been systematically killed in camps during World War II have been unhealed by the wounds of European history. A bunch of corpses that the liberators found in Auschwitz and pictures of starving surviving campers can't imagine all the cruel brutality of Nazi ideology. What it feels like to be stripped naked in front of thousands of other people and reduced to a serial number. Millions of people in this way have been purposefully invalidated, their hope taken away, their future, and in the end, their lives were taken away just because someone thought they were less valuable. By remembering the victims of the Holocaust, we warn of the terrible injustice that has been done to them and we show our deepest respect for their ruthlessly affected human dignity. The victims of the Holocaust also show us how short the path from contempt is through discrimination to hate and crime. They are a reminder and obligation to all of us, as well as to future generations, that no one will ever be persecuted again for belonging to another nation, faith, because of a different political belief or a different sexual orientation. The more we are still faced with individual attempts to reduce or even completely deny Nazi and fascist crimes. It is precisely the awareness of the horrors of World War II and the sense of responsibility for future generations that are built into the foundations of today's European Union. By accepting membership in the European Union, we reaffirmed our constitutional attachment to anti-fascism, as well as the desire to build a society of peace, freedom, democracy, tolerance and equality. Dear colleagues and colleagues, International Valentine's Day in the Croatian Assembly is also marked by an exhibition of posters on the topic of holocaust 16 students of design whose works have been selected in the international competition. You can look at the exhibition in the lobby in front of the Small Hall, and I invite you to do it anyway. We all have a duty to preserve the memory of the victims and the horrors of the holocausts, it is our responsibility never to repeat such evil again. Now I invite you to pay tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust for a minute of silence. A minute of silence, and let them have everlasting thanks and glory. - Thank you.
