ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9255	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and parliamentary deputies. The second time in the last half of the year, unfortunately, I have the honour and the obligation to propose to the Parliament a new person to act as Minister, unfortunately because I am not glad when ministers have to leave but on the other hand I will not say fortunately but fortunately the candidates that I have proposed to the first and now the second Mr. Michael Zmajlovic are people of high professional politics, I would also say the moral qualities that have my full trust and I want to give them that trust together. Politics is a stressful and difficult job, we are exposed to various pressures and we need to know when to say that, when to say no and when to keep for a while and make a decision. Mr. Zmajlović is young but is not unknown. Behind him is a short but extremely successful political career, being the mayor of Jastrebarski, the first directly elected mayor. He is also a politician, which is not irrelevant in any resolution and especially in this portfolio that needs political remedies, wills, energy, ideas to fight against any special interests that exist in the portfolio. In this regard, the previous minister implemented the government's policy and gave her her personal seal and it was a person with whom I had an excellent and excellent working relationship and a political relationship in the last 5, 6 years. Mr. Zmajlovic continues his government policy, of course in his tone by giving her his personal seal. This is a portfolio with a lot of special interests and needs to be laid down in legal and European frameworks. Ecology and environmental protection are one of the important European topics and will be increasingly important. Our goal, the government's goal, is to produce, work and build in Croatia to make Croatia energy independent, but to preserve and improve, not only to preserve what makes us remarkable, which is the quality and beauty of nature. And it's not easy. And when making any big decision, a number of arguments are broken, and then special interests. Sometimes it's hard to see them and understand them. Both of us politicians and people between you and a lot of schools and people outside this House and in the Croatian public who may not have been trained for it. It's a tough job. In that sense, I expect very much from Minister Zmajlovic if you confirm him as minister of what I believe. I expect a fight for projects, so one proactive strong stance but at the same time I expect what may be the first task of the ministry to protect Croatia, protect Croatian nature and work according to the highest standards. In a number of cases, it will be and will be about decisions related to the neighbourhood and having a cross-border effect. Whatever you're doing at home, and especially if you're a country of 56 thousand square miles of land, with such an extended geographical position, everything you're doing is related in some way to your neighbors, north, south, east, west. So once again, I stress these are very responsible and difficult decisions and very often hidden or clouded by the fog of ambiguity, ignorance, misunderstandings. We are in our programme that binds us still and will bind us, although life carries its own and some things change, but in our programme we have clearly defined and told us what our projects are, there will be new as years and months go by, and we have certain reserves and ambiguities and we will ask that they be made clear. There have been a lot of words these days about some big energy projects, and I want to repeat again here what I said two days ago in the government when I represent the public of Mr. Dragonovic, so I will repeat it here in a key place, which is the Croatian Parliament. So 20 years is talked about or something less about Plomino 3, about Plomino 3 less and Omble. As things around Omble are not quite clear by now, I'm going to ask that, within the shortest reasonable time, finally below that, the line is drawn and that we know which direction is further, yes or no. Is that what these are? I repeat very delicate decisions. When it comes to Ombla, Croatia has a depth of territory of only a few kilometers, not hundreds of kilometers, not tens of kilometers. So every move we make, every shovel that's buried has a certain effect. I want this opinion once again of the highest quality not only of Croatian but of European and world professions, because what we do will have long-term consequences of positive and may have negative consequences. What I expect the minister to answer in a satisfactory way is that we do not have time to wait. That's what Omble's getting at. As for Project Plomin, which was actively worked by Minister Holly, it is also a project of great interest for the local community, for the Istrian County for people living there who must be adequately rewarded and compensated for a single energy project in their midst because it works in Europe. So it can't go free, it costs, and the investor costs, it concerns our Slovenian neighbours, and the Italians if you will. So these are very complicated projects whose preparation takes time, as a rule, always too long. But once we cut, once we measure it, then we'll cut it off or make a decision. That's all I wanted to tell you in the introduction. I hope so, but I'm here if it's necessary to give some other clarifications. Please, and I urge you to give support for the ministerial duties of Mr. Michael Zmajlović to a young politician who also manages well in this matter because he has worked in this particular area for several years with circumstances. That's good in politics. It's a good thing the ministers have knowledge from the resors who take over. If they are also politically articulated, determined and supported by the party, the government, the coalition, then success is within reach, has never been guaranteed, but is within reach. That's exactly the kind of person Mr. Michael Zmajlović is, please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9256	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Milanovic. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9257	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Second replacement in the government in six months. And what Mr. Prime Minister was saying at the inauguration and what we got on the bench is about to come down to just one message, believe me, Mr. Zmajlović is the best candidate. This is the lack of our Rules of Procedure in which I have warned several times already because parliamentary MPs do not have the opportunity to ask candidates for government members before the vote. I'm sure even this time when the Rules of Procedure changes that part won't want to change, and then we'll always be in a situation, believe us. That Mr. Zmajlović was influential, I realized that because of him and Jastrebar mortuary, the Parliament changed the Law on Cemeteries. Since I can't ask, and I'd like to hear the answers to five very short questions. Will the new Minister of 4 existing Omble studies choose which is the rightful eeny, roast, pot, so where does the finger fit or will the heel be ordered? Because as far as I know, 1990s and some of the first studies have already been done. The second question would be about Plomin, does he know if Plomin will go for gas or coal? Thirdly, I would like to hear his opinion on how to handle plastic waste, especially bottles, whether it's crime and a criminal project or a good environmental project, whether if crime calls for help by Bajic or suspends the project. The fourth question would be a regional waste dump. It is obvious now that local self-government with this problem or cannot or can't handle it so it would be interesting to hear its position whether these regional deposits will centralize and make them state-owned or we will have a situation when you look at Croatia's map of the regional waste dumps by some inert, force-invisible follow the map or point of the most qualitative sources of drinking water. There's the disposal of hazardous waste after several incidents we've had that will be resolved soon enough. And I might ask him, but not necessarily, whether the ministry considers him a ministry, so now my ministry to be a kindergarten or a ministry that won't kneel under anyone's pressure. Unfortunately, the answers to these questions today will not be heard. It's not the candidate for the minister. It's us in the Parliament. Now former Minister Holly has made a mistake and received public criticism, as justified to me, but she has done something else, she resigned. It is so rare in Croatia that it deserves public praise. By resigning, as well as by the act of the prime minister who accepted the resignation, hope will be one and the other that a system of political responsibility, political responsibility, individual political responsibilities, government as a whole, as well as political parties or political parties for work or worklessness, behaviour or non-behavior of their prominent members have begun to be established in Croatia. Although this should be a normal situation, although the act of resignation should not make anyone praise me and I want to repeat it because in Croatia it has been so rare since 1990 that it is worth the consideration, public praise and hope that this is not the last case and that this tall raised fly and resignation and acceptance of that resignation by the Prime Minister will never again be allowed to descend lower. And for this reason, I congratulate former Minister Holly and the Prime Minister on such behaviour, on raising awareness of the responsibility and setting out for me the good, new rules in political life in Croatia. But there's something else. A few days before this affair, before the problem was publicly shy, it was unclearly published that Mrs. Holly had received threats and that these threats were practically life-threatening. I haven't seen official confirmation of that information, I personally tried to check some things but I've always come across a wall of silence. If it is true that one member of the government has been openly threatened, and no one in Croatia has responded publicly, then I am concerned. Both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister had to know more about it than any of us and much more than the Croatian public. It is unacceptable for that subject, that threats, and that situation be forgotten because of everything that happened later. We must not allow the fact that threats are referred to one member or a member of the government to go unnoticed to this country and to be eaten by other day-to-day political topics. We cannot go beyond the fact that in Croatia, government members can potentially and in the future be subjected to such pressures, and that the public goes through as if nothing had happened. And that is why I think that the answer to this question is due to us both in the Parliament and in the Croatian public, and that we all have to make sure that it doesn't fall into memory because of everything that happened later. It's too serious a question, too serious to go through. And I end up, volunteer gray PR eminences taking over. Their power has now been felt. That's what I warned you a month ago. Either you didn't hear or you didn't believe or you didn't care. But I assure you, if you don't stop them every three months, a new member of the government will be elected because they won't stop at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9258	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic called. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9259	I didn't answer the phone to sign off on an esteemed representative, but to just go on there very briefly where he left off, or the direction he was headed. Thank him for his well-intentioned words. I'm not happy this turned out like this. And as for the threats, there are things you can't talk about right now in public. Certain indications exist. I'm not going to say that each one of us is, but many here have received threats of a variety of nature and persuasion, ideologically, due to deep divisions that unfortunately still mark us, which we want to bring to an end somehow. We hope we're doing a good job, but it's always possible we're not. Due to specific financial interests, it is equally dangerous if not more dangerous, and there are such threats. What I told the candidate for the minister, not now entering what was two or three weeks ago because I can't do it, I can't do it this way, is that it doesn't rule out the possibility that he might need protection for a while, to be a protected person. I don't rule out that possibility, and he has to talk about it with his family because that's what he does. After that, I got confirmation. It's about that. This is an area where special material interests exist. You have asked several rhetorical questions here, so I will tell you that the answer to each of them is that we will work in accordance with the highest standards that exist in Europe, which are applicable in Croatia. And we won't be able to do it on our own, we'll be, if you want, monitored. Those are very strict standards. And it's one of the areas where I'm glad we're under such pressure because we're going to have to change, and we have something to guard. And finally, as far as the standard is concerned, your question, your remarks on the Rules of Procedure, and that you would like to hear the candidate for minister here is reasonable, but on the other hand, our entire system is like that. So, we, when we confirm the government in this House as colleagues and as a collective body then give trust to the government, did it the day before Christmas Eve. There was no debate on individual ministers. This is kind of one not to the end regulated deviation from that rule. Trust was given to the government and the Prime Minister. Let's say in some established democracies, we often talk about Croatia in the office system, this system is not an office system, it is a parliamentary system. Let's say in some countries, the President or Prime Minister simply decides who will be ministers, and Parliament or Bundestag do not say at all, and these are the democracies of which we still have something to learn from. In some democracies, Parliament decides on absolutely everything, on every meeting of the European Council, on every council meeting, the committees decide. I am saying this because we must also adopt a special Law on the relations of the Government and Parliament because we will decide in Brussels every week in a series of council formats, namely to prepare decisions and represent Croatia at a number of levels on important things that life means in Croatia. Therefore, your question is referred in the right direction. We have one model, there are different models in one direction and the other direction. All three are characteristic of true democracy. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9260	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9261	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, I will clearly personally or still support the government's proposal in the plural, but I am truly sorry that Mrs. Holly is no longer a member of the government. And I'm glad that the prime minister just said that he made that decision with a heavy heart. What I personally think, I think it would be good for the government itself to be someone who will simply be an opposition to some investments, some investors, some investors. I agree absolutely Croatia needs investment, Croatia needs investment or investment and in the energy sector but it always needs investment in tourism, it needs to be in the banking industry, in the environment, I don't know, industry etc. But you always ask yourself what kind of investment? This resignation and appointment of Mr. Dragonovic is not just a mere appointment. It's not just a simple solution. Croatia has a problem with not coming to foreign capital. That's right. Croatia itself cannot build large energy systems today. Yugoslavia could. I am no nostalgic, Croatia cannot. We can sell what was simply built then, but we cannot invest ourselves in such systems. What has foreign capital entered in the last 20 years? They took over the banking sector with 8.7 billion euros, mainly through the retained profits they made here. They entered the trade of much 2.6 billion euros, post office and telecommunications 1.7 billion euros, real estate business 1.7 billion euros, oil production 1.7 billion euros. In manufacturing jobs almost nothing, something small in Bennett, Plomin, Rockwool that was being built if I hadn't been wrong there since '96. until 2000 or it was a joint investment by a multinational from Germany's RVE and HEP. Now that's where we get to Plomin. Recently, Mr. Škrec spoke in a tribune in Labin literally, and I now quote this as saying: "In his speech, the squire also presented a series of arguments against coal and not only environmental but also economic expressions, at the end of the doubt about the reality of such a project. In fact, Dr Škrec believes that HEP and Croatia will find it very difficult to find a strategic partner to pay for the construction of TE Plomin 3 according to EU environmental standards." I get the impression that someone just wants to get there. Besides, by what standards will he build? In addition, EU Member States, and Croatia becomes this next summer, I quote it: "it binds or is obliged to limit total greenhouse gas emissions from thermal power plants and to grant every permit to emit an exact quantity, etc., etc." Then he says, right at the beginning, he said that the environmental impact study TE Plomin made by ECONERG was missed because she was not at all considering other energies other than coal and demystified HEP's syntagma about so-called. "Second Block." It's not a replacement block, it's building a new side of the thermal power plant said Shkrec's assistant until yesterday's Minister of Ecology. Škrec said that storage of CO2 will also be a big problem for TE Plomin because Croatia does not have many locations for it, and apparently it listed a Slavonian swimming pool or storage beneath the sea near the long island. If TE Plomin 3 is built, the ecological standards will have to be the same as Te Shostanj's. If this is not ensured, the ministry in which I work will not grant them a valid permit, etc., etc. Personally, I hope the government asks Labinians or Labinion if they're for Plomin, if they're not for Plomin. It's a big investment, it's 800m euros. One such investment would be built for 4.5 years, perhaps 0.5% of Croatia's GDP. If fully developed in Croatia, 100 to 200 people would be employed tomorrow, but over 4.5 years, 1,000 people would work. Now, on the other hand, we who come from Istria know about the experience of Rockwool, which is why we are at least careful not to let it happen to us. Nobody says Rockwool is the biggest greenfield investment in Croatia, about 80m euros, they today have 50m euros in exports. 400 people are working, rather gravitating this business project. That is 0.5% of Croatian exports. But citizens detest, rightly so. And it really made them sick alive to survive in that location. They just need to be trusted. I don't know anything about OMBLA, I don't even know about these negotiations that go allegedly between Zagreb and Banja Luka around some constructions on Neretva, etc., etc. What I am extremely pleased that the prime minister has said openly about the need, I quote "Commands for Plomin or for those energy facilities". For the time being, HEP, or RWE, the local community has not compensated in any way, but I hope again that the government or someone will ask the citizens what they think of this investment. I also share my opinion with most Croatian citizens, that a benign email cannot be or should not be, to be reasonable, may be, but it should not, in my opinion, be a reason, as I know, for any shifts. We can, we have to set ourselves as many standards as possible, but if the rest of us were to apply the standard applicable to Mirela Holly in this House there would be no one left, no one in the government would be left in the counties, in our cities there would literally be no one left in any public enterprise, no one left in their business, starting from HRT further. There's no one to ask for a job, if they can do well, if there's nothing they can do, I can't help you, but I kind of think it's even some commitment by a parliamentary agent. I agree with the minister's position is very different. I mean, I don't have to be right, I'm going to say one more time that it's the job of an agent that if someone talks to him like that, at least try to get some information from someone in an institution. The truth is we here in this House don't decide, so to speak of nothing, we don't even decide on a menu in our mess hall down there. Well, no one will even call us if we don't do something, and I agree the ministers are something else. If the railroad goes home to 3,000 people, then why wouldn't everyone in this country be, who works there, actually on the railroad in the same position. However, on 31.12.2011, 293049 workers worked in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia. In April 2012 we worked 296548 workers, or in April 2012 in the public sector we had 3499 workers more than on 31.12.2011. And now that I'm not talking about these activities, but mainly about clear education, health care, social care, something public administration and defence, and I can say in public administration and defense 26 more, education 1823, in health care and social care 1650, a total of 3499 according to this Croatian Statistics Institute. That was before, the one for me of the good law that Mr. Mršić suggests. I repeat, we need to set maximum or maximum standards, but we can hardly stand it if we set higher standards than we do in one Austria, England, France, I don't know the United States, etc., etc. Okay, anything can be done, but as a man says, someone can kill too much of the word, so a high-ranking bar will lead to our always rising and we won't be able to jump that fly. The second question is, what was counsel Lesar talking about? How could he leak into the public one, let's call it that, a private e-mail? Who's working behind the ship, why is it only three months after the release, sending that e-mail? Is anyone threatening Miss or Miss Mirelli Holly? I want to believe that, I am convinced that Mr. Zmajlović will be a good minister, I want to believe that he will take an interest in both investment and profit, without it we simply cannot survive, as well as in nature protection. Of course, coming from Istria is most normal for me. Here's the energy project, like what the public is always talking about, which is Plomin. If I could talk to her, then I could talk to Mrs. Holly and that's why I really feel bad about her leaving. The truth God, I didn't ask for anything, I didn't need anything, but if anything, I could have talked to her, and that's why I truly respected her. I respect the clear interest of both the government and the prime minister or the will of the prime minister, so I will vote in favour of this proposal. And one more thing, I don't know which ministry or in which ministry it decides, when this country will be regulated so-called. This status so-called tourism land? Why aren't the PIFs, why are foreign owners, why are foreign-owned banks, tycoons, monopolies not paying for the same thing I think? So we're big this year, no less than 100 or 200 million kunas along our shores, and those others, the little one, we're just yelling this skin. And lastly, this headline from one newspaper yesterday, "Yes, the king's trash told me we'll recycle you and throw you in the trash." What's that, that business is a big deal, a big deal with that garbage, that's probably right. That even some NGOs were attached, e.g. The destruction of Kastion from these king's garbage, that's clear to me. Maybe it's hard to prove, but it's not far from the truth, clearly that project will go. It is secured in the European funds of 107 million kuna, and it will certainly be more appropriate for the needs of the South or Istria, however, but what is now the case. So the development that, investment yes, the economy, yes, but also the minimum is somehow to protect that environment. And when I said code, and maximum citizen involvement, whether it's a matter of, I don't know about Kastyun, whether it's a Plomin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9262	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9263	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice-President, Member of Parliament, mayor and most likely future ministers. It's e-mailed, DORH up, police up. It's not about the content of that e-mail anymore. It's about who gave the media that e-mail. However, even worse than that e-mail, it is from e-mail that this Croatian Parliament has passed a number of laws in which, in all cases, without e-mailing, texting, without calling a phone, can be employed in all state services, in the cabinets of ministers, in parliament, in government party obedience. So, a whole series of laws have been passed where party counterparts can be hired without raising Bajic or DORH, and God forbid I have a new minister of police Ostojic. The Croatian public, or Croatian media, and not the Kukuriku coalition, nor the Prime Minister is absolutely concerned. The DORH is now up. In that former system, so for the past eight years, someone was also receiving prizes for whistlers of the year when certain things happened in INA, in public enterprises. But now he obviously wants to crucify that Pedro to a pillar of shame because he dared to send the disputed e-mail from a public firm, from HZ, and perhaps even from the SDP headquarters in Iblero Square. I will remind myself that here from this pay phone on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I have warned about what these no-competition employment laws are going to lead to, that it will be enough regardless of what the first Deputy Prime Minister has told the Croatian public that we are making less phone calls, so we will live a better life. Probably the minister listened to the first Deputy Prime Minister, so she didn't phone, but she sent far cheaper e-mails to her colleague in the Croatian Railways and thus made a political nonsense first, but also showed everything I said about this speaker when I called the best man and said that it was enough for him to enroll in the SDP and that he would get a place at the Ministry of Research and Waste of Time very quickly. But more devastating than this e-mail is exactly what happened in these 6 months, 6 months where Croatian citizens, so all Croatian citizens had the hope that something would start in Croatia. In addition to party employment, nothing has been launched. I read the programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Prime Minister, the programme for the mandate from 2011 to 2015. I doubt you'll make it to the 2015 election. But you can freely tell citizens and citizens that no one from the Committee on Gender Equality would call me again, that this programme no longer exists, that there is no such plan 21, that there is nothing written in this programme, that everything was a delusion of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in that election campaign, and that you simply have to explain to the citizens, it is clear to me as a parliamentary representative of the opposition, but also to a large majority of Croatian citizens that this plan simply doesn't exist anymore, that today we have almost a record number of unemployed, almost 350,000, that we have hungry workers, peasants and pensioners, that we have a decline in gross national income, that we have a decline of almost 9%, that we have a number of situations where we have destroyed and made it difficult for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't only think about raising VAT to 25%, but I also think about everything that affects the standard of ordinary residents of this Republic of Croatia when it goes to the first store where it's bought him everything, regardless of what the government or ministers in the government say that the citizens live better, they're just not aware of it yet. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia today have a very difficult life. In these six months, we have passed an extremely likable law because we have deceived all those who went to the 2009 elections where they voted directly for mayors and their deputies. I have no doubt that my colleague Michael was a good mayor of Jastrebarski and that he should probably stay that way until the end of the term, and not as in some monarchy according to that law than those two deputies choose a better one and say so because now you will be mayor by the end of the term. And it was a big con. That's when we called it, I was the first of Komadina's laws, and I'm sorry that my colleague Komadina left the ministerial post very quickly. But apparently, in the government he didn't think the same way most in the Government of the Republic of Croatia thought and I believe he went for Yellow Locke. In any case, there are constant conflicts, I won't mention gas, electricity and fraud again, because it wasn't an increase of 20% but far more. There are constant and conflicting conflicts in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking at a diary like any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The governor of the National Bank said he had been told in talks with the prime minister, or the Prime Minister, that he must leave. At the same time in the same diary, the finance minister says he's sorry, that he's surprised and that he really doesn't know why the governor's leaving. You've had the whole story of decentralisation, of unconquered Slavonia and Baranja, which is now even more neglected in these 20 years, and instead of decentralisation with that mini tax reform, we've got rough centralization, centralization of Croatia. Something about environmental protection, I really don't know who the king's trash is who brought up the former minister, but I didn't hear anywhere that the police and the DORH with one of those threats wanted to be accounted for. I don't see any reason why the new minister should have protection. As a future Mr. Minister, the strategy of regional dumps in the Republic of Croatia is robbery. Local self-governments will rob the state, and this will be your main problem, not PET packaging, but the fight against major and global and European consortiums, the fight against the missed strategy that the EU has sold to Croatia, a strategy that the EU has long rejected from all its countries, and sold that technology by very expensive funds of the Republic of Croatia. At the very end will this part be spoken by my club colleague and club president Mr. Dinko Buric, at the end of the HDSSB club will be against for all these reasons. I wish you good luck in your work will most of this House vote anyway, but at this point we are not different from Greece and Croatia is equal to Greece. For all the reasons I've listed. And let's admit to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that it's very difficult to find a strategy and this government that can get this country out of a crisis and that we're in a much bigger banana than we were 8 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9264	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric will remain for 4 minutes and 19 seconds of his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9265	President, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ladies, colleagues and colleagues. In the end, I would like to conclude after everything my colleague has said that it is unacceptable for the Croatian public to say that we are here today dealing with a twisting of thesis. We're not talking about key things, and I have to admit that I'm uncomfortable with the debates they throw above all the light on the fact that former Minister Mireli Holly was threatened. If that's true, it's terrible. So it's for every conviction. But today we are discussing a proposal to appoint a new minister not because of threats received by the former minister, but because of something she did and not to be done. The fact is that this is already the second appointment, or second replacement minister. The first for some other reasons, but what happened with Miss Mirela Holly's email is unacceptable and is not allowed for the Croatian public and prime minister to present himself here with praises in the Croatian public. I'm absolutely on behalf of the club against it because this isn't what it's been said here I think evidence of a system of political responsibility. No, this is about something the Prime Minister was obliged to do. It is also necessary to shed light on the fact that the Prime Minister did what he did and ordered the former minister because she was caught with her fingers in a jam as it is said and from the place he did it. And it's a distraction to the public that it was from Mr. Emil Tedeschi's villa and it's a question of whether it's consistent with the normal behaviour of a Prime Minister. But when it comes to what's crucial here, that's why there's been a change in the minister. It came because it was continued with behavior as it had been in the past eight years. You promised the citizens that you'd be different, not just another government, but you continued with a classic example of nepotism. It's not just about behavior or what Miss Mirela Holly did in that mail. What we had in HDZ's government often apostrophe as a famous barb of Luke's letter, this is nothing but a little more modern. This is a letter, this is an e-mail to Mirale Holly. Therefore, the main problem is that the current government in these 6 months does not show a different desire or demonstrate a desire for different behavior than the previous government did. And that is the basic problem and that is what concerns Croatian citizens. And what was to be done after this was discovered? Well, I guess it wasn't public praise. It was for every conviction. It's not just this letter, it's the government's problem with both the staffing and the boards of directors and the boards of directors. So let's look at what's been done and from the first vice president of the Croatian government, you can't come in if you don't, Zoran Vinkovic said well before my colleague a while ago, it's worth the best man's hello. If you don't have a SDP and HNS membership card, you can't enter any board of directors, you can't be appointed to any board of directors. Therefore, nepotism, and I must say, incompetence in these six months is a fundamental feature of this current government, unfortunately for all citizens, and for us from the HDZB, such as corruption and organised crime, has been the characteristics of the HDZ government in the past 8 years. And this way of working, I'm afraid we won't be able to choose just one new minister soon, but to choose a whole new government. I think that would be best for the Republic of Croatia. And just to be clear, I'm sorry, on behalf of the HDZB club, that after only 6 months of the new Croatian authorities, we have a situation that can rightly be said that the SDP and Kukuriku coalition are equal to the HDZ government of the previous 8 years. This is why we will not support this proposal, and I call on the prime minister, the president of the Croatian government to take good care of the fact that this is not an isolated case, but that if it continues this way, I am afraid a lot of work could change the minister every month if you have a desire to clean the ranks because it is employed by party and political similarities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9266	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9267	Dear colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of talk in politics and in the public about the impression of what a certain move, a visit or a word will be made to people, and much less about values that are good, and what is bad, which is moral, and what is immoral, which is legal, and what is illegal. There are amongst us those who come from the assumption that people are short-minded and that they are not particularly perceptive, intuitive, that they don't know and that they can be easily manipulated, and that they're dissuaded by the noise, that's what we've seen. We also saw that in this House there was a direct calling from the President of the Republic that after the war his family had moved into an apartment in Zagreb from which members of a persecuted ethnic community were kicked out in World War II and nothing. It is possible for your voters to go in such a way, treat them as ignorant, unwise, low, or human beings to communicate as worthy, believing that they will understand that you are clear enough in their gestures and content and that they distinguish values. You can always make noises. That's it, there's no correction to the wrong assumption, but only one fact about the law, the mayor's replacement. Once again, if in the United States, the vice president can change the President of the United States when he leaves office or has to leave then he can go to Zagreb both in Djakov and in Jastrebarska. That's my opinion. And all of this will be given by Croatian voters and the Croatian Constitutional Court. And one more thing, the legal possibility of hiring, of temporary hiring of co-workers in the cabinets of ministers, so at the rank of lower officials according to the principle of revolving the door, so you come with authority, you go with authority, you don't have to hire someone from your neighborhood, relatives, your Ator or your island, there's no such thing, it's over with. It's a model I advise you to do where you trust citizens and future government because it's an honest model. It has been tried by many established democracies, among other things, which is why they are so evolved. That's what we do. And I'm going to be very happy when you ask me how many people there are, how many people this government has in this way temporarily hired unemployed because these people are going. We're not putting them in a department after two years, they're going. They're marked. It is known what they are called Marijan Matkovic, Petrovic, Horvat, however, cannot remain in the system. You see, it's a celestial difference, it's huge, it's clean bills. Ask me another time how many people I've employed in this way in the cabinet of Prime Ministers and Government. Just ask me, and I'll be happy to answer, and then the citizens will ask you how you hire where you trust the citizens. I deliberately say citizens' trust because citizens give confidence, all these authorities and all these administrations are legitimate. I'm ready to answer that question any minute now. Whom I brought to my office, who are party members and how many party members are engaged, by which criteria in the state administration. Winning the election also means engaging the best-quality party people. A terriblely sensitive thing that the public is very allergic to. Unfortunately, this case we're talking about here is something that happened, it had to happen. Ask me, ask me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9268	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9269	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that Mr. Prime Minister that winning the election also means the right to hire the most qualified party people. Therefore, it is an absolutely incorrect allegation because winning the elections means justifying, that it is the promises you made and that you employ people by professional capacity, not by party and political resemblance. Because I'll also remind you of the definition of nepotism if you've forgotten, that it's about filling up your own family's jobs or giving priority to hiring acquaintances or party friends. Therefore, you did not get the right to win the elections to hire the highest quality as you say party personnel rather than people who are able to do the job to get Croatia out of the crisis. I'm afraid if you continue like this, you don't have enough quality personnel to do it yourself. So you realize that once upon a time you should finally take people who know something whether they belong to any political party or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9270	Yes, I don't know what you've been correcting for you, but unfortunately, that institute still exists. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, also a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9271	I want to correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Prime Minister who says we're asking him, and I'm asking him when since there is no current clock because this session has been delayed and will likely continue this session at the 9th month. But I'm going to ask now what about decentralisation of Croatia. This is complete centralization, units of local administration and self-government are dying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9272	Mr. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9273	Look, I'm gonna keep a tone like this. I know you're provoking because it's your only way. So I told you to ask, I said figuratively ask, you could and could not ask for protection from the President of the Parliament, only you abuse institutes and do from this Parliament what you think is right. I'm not even advocating to lift the correction of an incorrect allegation. It doesn't matter because I want people to see what kind of politicians and people we are, so if I have to, then I'm going to go out five more times, although I have other obligations, but this is important. Other obligations will wait. So you haven't asked me again because you don't want to hear the answer. Now, once again, lift the correction of the incorrect allegations, or lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or correct a quote that I have not said at all, so I did not say that after winning the elections, party people are hired but that it is the party's obligation to take the highest quality of people's responsibility and to engage. It's a very small number of people. That's how all modern parties do it and make public accounts. But ask me, ask me again and correct something I didn't say or suggest or think at all, I might answer the word, maybe I won't. The citizens will see, I might get on their nerves, but I will be persistent and calm in revealing you to let the citizens see who you are and what you are. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9274	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9275	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, but the Prime Minister has injured Article 214 because he has demeaned and insulted MPs in the Croatian Parliament. To say that we, Mr. Prime Minister, are provoking anyone is an insult and demeaning to us MPs who are acting our duty here, and our duty here is to speak and ask all questions. And since you're already so interested in Mr. Prime Minister, and when you offer so much to ask how many jobs you've hired here, I now announce that you will receive a written inquiry from me as a representative and us from the HDSSB Club, the exact list of all the party people you've hired as you have said because that's what the victory in the elections has given you for the right. Expect that question, and I will present that answer to the Croatian public. And please indicate which ones are from the SDP, which are from the HNS, which are from the HSU, which are from the IDS, I don't care. You've offered yourself, you'll get that question, and I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9276	Yeah, yeah. He can do it now. No, not because of the Rules of Procedure after this, you'll get one more MP's word. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, no. No, not after the gentleman, here's the correcting of the incorrect quote then you'll be able to get word to the Prime Minister. This way please, no, no, it's okay. No, no, let's still do it because it's done. The institute is used, you have the right to use it, you have the right to speak. I could have taken your word from you, so I didn't take your word, I'm very patient. No, no, I'm very patient. I said we'll finish it all. ... Please, we'll finish all of this, we'll change the Rules of Procedure, and we'll do it in a constructive way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go. First of all, tell me which quote you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9277	The quote that the prime minister said was his role to expose us. And I believe that the role of Prime Minister, listen to Mr Milanovic, is not to expose MPs, but the role of Prime Minister is to get this country out of a deep crisis in which it has been in deeper crisis for the last six months. And I would ask you as President of the Parliament to still protect the MPs because what he said here a week or two ago, Mr. Coleman, this was obviously a hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9278	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9279	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For this special case, it might have been better if there were another, or the first Deputy Prime Minister, here because we have related to this appointment of questions that would probably concern the second first Deputy Prime Minister. However, given that the Prime Minister here has taken time to answer our questions I will try on behalf of the HDZ Club to say what we seem to be important in this appointment. At first, I would say that we are encouraged by the fact that young people or young people enter executive power and that it is a good message and that it is a positive shift, even though a colleague who has acted so far can be counted as younger personnel, and then it would be better if we had changed others. However, of course, in the appointment of Mr. Zmajlovic, the question arises why is he appointed minister, which is why you found it necessary to replace the current minister? But that's a question that brings us back six months, a question that tells us that you've had opportunities and that you've taken this opportunity in a certain way to structure executive power in the state. You did this also in a way that you are under a rationalization company that would mean reducing costs more efficiently and faster management, i.e. management in executive power, you instead set up 4 new ministries as far as I think. One of these ministries is this ministry that we are talking about today, environmental protection and nature. Your criticism until you were in power of that government was most often heard the word that it was an incompetent government. Unlike your government, Mr. Milanovic, she at least had formal assumptions that she had had school equipment to indicate that the people who did this duty knew what they would work on, what they would work on and how they would run their ministries. However, you have already proposed to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Nature who, according to his formal education and education, has little to do with nature protection. And that may be one of the reasons why we get into trouble. There are two ministries, one that deals if I can say so freely by aggression to nature. So by building, destroying a part of nature and another of this ministry that deals with the protection of that same nature and strives to raise standards of protection that at least what has not been violated so far will not be damaged in the future. And it seems that, unfortunately, the main reason why my colleague Mirela Holy is going to be back in public appearances was not to meet the conditions of the rapid, allegedly fast investment, investment tsunami if I remember well the announcements and what Mr. Cacic's first deputy prime minister announced for leaving the recession, leaving the economic crisis, big investment, large investment ventures, probably at the expense of nature protection, and when it happened that someone had the need to reconsider that investment happened to him so quickly, I won't say infamously but quickly ended my short term at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature. And the bottom line is that she's a study of environmental protection that has made this whole 13-year-old story more likely to see if new conditions, new protection parameters are expecting and looking for something else, and instead it turns out that because of emails circulating unauthorized in Secretary Holly's state, she lost her seat. And you said that, well, that's proof that we're principled, that's proof that no one can intervene for the workplace of anyone in the state administration or public service, and that's the principle that we're going to run. Now you've also lectured us on legality, honesty, disclosure of different behaviors, etc. And then I ask you because I also have a chance to ask you now is that the principle that you will implement unequivocally always and without exception in all your appointments? Is this principle that you have now applied to Mrs. Holy also true when the supervisory boards of trading societies are appointed institutions, people employed in ministries to lower levels of responsibility? Not this highest level of ministers but those directors, directors who no longer exist, are now replaced by some debts. Will you apply this criterion in all public enterprises from Plinar further, to lower levels of decision-making, to financial directors, to project development directors and all those experts who, independently of their political commitment, have professionally performed their jobs. You won't do it because you're the one who's done a lot of these people in the first six months and changed. Some even, I won't name them, praised how they welcomed the opportunity to become presidents of important companies, because it was their life dream, or the possibility of a career in politics returning to a high-ranking economy. So one of your power-taking stories is the rationalization of the state administration that you started by increasing the number of ministries, by increasing agencies because you started some new agencies. On the one hand, the SDP has advocated a reduction in numbers, on the other hand the HNS has increased the number of agencies, and you are expanding one spectrum of NGOs or regulators that will be difficult to monitor further, especially given their jurisdiction in the country. So, you've rationalized nothing, not only have you increased the number of ministries, you've increased the number of officials in those ministries by removing professional positions, and you've appointed political like persons in those places, most often without real experience, expertise and knowledge for the jobs they do. And that's the question that goes with Secretary Holly's resolution and the appointment of a new minister. The question is, is it then being replaced because of an e-mail which she advocated to protect the job of an officer, so not even as much as I understood the person who should decide on something, and is that the principle that will always and everywhere in your appointments to all duties, to the most and lower functions as you would like to say? It seems to me another reflection of your behavior which is very important, and this is already the third case, if we look well, that we don't speak with names. And of course, the example of the United States and the president that the vice president is changing is no example given the local elections in the Republic of Croatia. But since you are already considering America, then you must take it every time you compare the situation in America and the situation in Croatia, I am afraid that this comparison will not be in your favor very often. But what is important, you took citizens at local level the right to choose their leaders, you introduced a new principle that no matter how soon some leader who voted in the fair elections went to another post, he could determine another one which the citizens and local units did not want to do until the next local elections even if they were in 3 years. It happened at the beginning of the term of office of your government, and then it happened to some of the other officials you named, and now it's happening again. This time with a mayor, a colleague who is likely to gain Parliament's trust to become a minister of environmental and nature protection. And he will, contrary to the will of the people of Jastrebarski, decide who will be their mayor by the end of the term. It's a bad start for a young man in this way to be a minister, a bad message to everyone because you want to show that Mirela Holly is a victim of your principled way of working. And it doesn't seem like it's just a bad way to end your short term because you haven't been able to agree on priorities within the coalition. Is that why the first vice president stands for this time or why you're standing up for the rest of you in the government? And it seems to me that in this way you can't expect the executive power to work better, but don't talk to the Croatian public about principles and principled behavior. Because if you did this the way you did this time for the Minister of Environmental Protection, then within a month, I'd be afraid to lose most of the executive people in all the ministries, but also in all the public enterprises in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9280	Thank you very much. Just to let you know that the time has elapsed to report an individual debate, that is, except for the end of the club, everything else. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9281	I apologize if my speech was teaching and moralizing, I don't think so. That's why you're in charge here and it's nice to hear moral disciplines, but as I said I wouldn't go back to what it was. I won't, I won't comment on the international experience and the expertise of some ministers in that government, and I won't comment on the fact that they've graduated from the right 50 years of their lives, because it's simply not true, it was a great government, and this government is no good for you. And I'm not going back to what it was, but I want to talk about values, but I'm not going to tell you what your value must be, I'm going to talk about what my value is. And one more message to your colleagues, ask me. You haven't asked the key question again, how many people are employed in the state administration on the principle of rotating doors in the last half of the year, how busy is my cabinet and government, and then we'll come to these other issues, about public companies about party members. I'm looking forward to this debate. It'll reveal a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9282	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Nada Turina-Đuric. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9283	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's because the HNS would like to return the debate on the topic that is being discussed today, which is the appointment, that is, of the Prime Minister's proposal to appoint a new Minister for Environmental Protection. A few words on our part and support, i.e. the CNS will vote in favour of this proposal. In view of this, the Ministry of Environmental Protection is, in fact, the very first line of defence in the protection of national resources, beauty and national interests of the Republic of Croatia. It's extremely important, it's very important who's at the head of such a ministry. How does the ministry actually do its job? He's doing his job looking for and insisting on respecting the highest environmental standards we know at the moment. The highest ecological standards are European Union standards. There may be good examples in the world of individual examples, but Europe is in protection and in those standards it has reached the farthest. It is this government, Mr. Milanovic's government, who, on his proposal, agreed with coalition partners, has, in the opinion of the CNS, worked well together the ministries and has made a good move with this ministry. This ministry separated it from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, separated it from a potential conflict of interest and placed it in a very visible place of this first line of defence for the protection of environmental interests, the interest of the protection of the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in such a position, this ministry became and at the same time the ministry focused on certain lobbys related to environmental protection, related to waste management. So it focused on him certain pressures that would naturally take place in the future. And it is not to expect that it will not happen, and to expect it from the minister proposed by the prime minister to resist these pressures and have his own position. However, sometimes by insisting on environmental standards that often turn us into discussions on the multi-annual variants of environmental studies and environmental impact studies, including in some of these cases that have been mentioned with Minister Holy, also specifically about hydrothermia Ombla. Unfortunately for us, these ecological standards and the application of environmental standards have mostly turned into a strain around acceptable and unacceptable studies. What the HNS expects the future minister to finally establish criteria for who, in a professional sense, to be given such a study as criteria and what we will accept and what we will not accept. Because really having 4 studies, making them 10 or 15 years is something that is absolutely unacceptable for Croatia at the moment. Of course there's been an open topic of investment banks lobby pressure, etc. That's what's going on. However, we need to know that at this point we are paying for our standard of extremely expensive electricity, extremely expensive energy. We need to know that only two projects are bigger, energy projects prepared in Croatia. It's the Omble hydrocenter and it's Plomin 3. Whether we will be responsible for accessing these projects with the help of this Ministry of Environmental Protection or whether we will order five more studies. It is actually an answer that must be given by the future minister, i.e. this ministry. We have to go to these projects, because if we don't go into these projects, of course with the highest standards possible, then Mr Milanović will probably answer even more difficult questions in three years, which is why the electricity in Croatia or the energy in Croatia is more expensive by 20, 30 or not. Our inability to find the right measure, to be effective but also responsible for future generations, and who will pay? Citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in three years, three and a half years this government will answer, the president, vice-presidents, the competent ministers will answer. It is simply in this business that everyone has to do their part and it is the right of resolute ministers who have investments under them to push these investments, to try to lead to realisation. It's their obligation, they took an oath to do it. And it is also the ministry's task to adapt these projects, i.e. to insist that they adapt to the highest economic standards. And we at the HNS don't see what the problem is. Of course, these tensions will always be, of course, that these conflicts, that attempts at pressure will always be, that they will be on one side and that they will be on the other. Our task is to fix the energy situation in Croatia urgently. Croatia is energy-dependent, very inefficient and not the reason of the European Union, is not the only reason the European Union and our entry into the European Union to adapt to standards, but rather our citizens. If it is known that one of Croatia's largest capital is our natural resource, our national parks, our nature parks. For some, Croatia as a whole may seem to be a major national park. Turns out we have to find the right balance, the right balance. I hope so too, and the Croatian People's Party hopes that the minister, future Minister Zmajlovic, will be successful at this very job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9284	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9285	A colleague said that we adopted the highest environmental standards European. It's a lie. We've also adopted a standard called political blackmail not to say a political agreement that obviously doesn't exist here. Because how to interpret the words of the first Deputy Prime Minister after Mirela Holly's resignation is enough kindergarten, let's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9286	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9287	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm not surprised that Mirela Holly resigned, is it ethical, but I'm very surprised that the prime minister accepted that resignation. In fact, she was part of a team, a woman who was under a lot of pressure, a woman whose work I followed and who protected nature and the environment lived. She may have made a few gaffs but much less than some ministers sitting here in the government who have acquired everything they have thanks to their policies. So we're very hypocritical here. If all these governments had had honest, smart, hardworking ministers so far, well, a woman made a big gaff and she has to leave because no one's ever done anything like that before. We know very well how it's done since the '90s. I have a flaw that I've been here since the 1990s and I've written and I love writing because it's been in my business and I know very well who came to the Croatian Parliament in the 1990s without anything and who has now. So we're very hypocritical. And I want to know why you didn't step out of it a little harder, because I'm saying it might not be ethical or it's not ethical, but it didn't make any big mistake that she had to leave this job. It's like someone steals 100 million kunas and someone 10 kunas and then you're gonna close this 10 kuna and say how honest and big you've done. I believe that she should have stayed here and I'm interested because we don't have spare Croatia, we don't have thousands and thousands of kilometers where we can put off some dangerous waste, I'm wondering if she had to go because she got on the way to the king's waste and suspicious investments, or if it's really just because of that letter that she didn't ask for someone to hire by the way, but simply asked that person not to scold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9288	We have three replicas. First, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9289	Thank you very much. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister. My colleague Tomasic offered me your speech on Mirala Holy. I'll say one thing, I'm sure Mirela Holly was one of your government's most capable ministers, Mr. Prime Minister. I know a colleague as an advocate, and I think she made a mistake in that way wanting to help someone, and she resigned because she's honest. But I'm also sure that her lawsuit filed by a criminal complaint that suspicion of follow-up, listening gives a strong political message, and I don't think we should ignore it. If there is fear, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, too, on several occasions, paranoia is created, phobia around the work of our intelligence community. I believe you too, President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, but the President of the Republic should stand by it. We must be free citizens of this country and do our job freely and honestly and honestly. We need to order from this High House to oversee the covert services of the SOA and the work of the Secret Service. I support Mirella in her work and in her application, and I don't think we should ignore it as agents because I'm sure something in her shift is wrong. This is a technical matter today, a proposal for a new minister and a change in government, but I believe that the criminal application of Mirala Holly and suspicion of listening and surveillance casts serious doubts at the work of SOA, the Intelligence Community and in the work of all services that should work in the interests of citizens, not in the interest of any political promotion, whether the destruction of ministers, or the disgrace of MPs, or any disgrace of citizens or anyone. It is known who can issue a warrant for listening and monitoring to the Supreme Court in certain cases and BUSKO in those crisis situations when it is due to operate within 24 hours. I consider Mr. President of the Parliament and representative Tomasic that on this trail we representatives of the Croatian Parliament need to raise our voice, we should finally end the para-intelligence community in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9290	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9291	Thank you. You see, distinguished colleagues aren't all hypocritical agents. We can talk and you can smile slowly, but we're talking about an email here. I'm asking what about the laws that made it possible to hire without competition, without school, without adequate professional training? As Prime Minister Milanovic says, the rotating door system. You come in now, you get out when you retire because you don't even know the number, and you don't know who those people are, except they're party members. On the other hand, what I particularly wish to apostrophe, you have today in Croatia the future ministers likely protection of the environment, that you have a system of regional dumps that are, and I would like someone to mention who these are, who are they, what are they called? I don't know. So there's State's Attorney's office and the police, say who's king of waste. But there are units of local self-government that have bought into EU strategies on the creation of regional dumps that the EU has abandoned and this technology is the past of the EU. Many cities and municipalities now pay large and fat millions of kunas and euros for such signed agreements. Is the king waste saubermacher,...in Croatia or are they some local members of political parties? Here I said those two companies that are the kings of the waste in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9292	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9293	Thank you very much. I don't know about Djakovo, but I know specifically about your party, about Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, that you also hire and will not hire people who are other parties. If you want, I'll give you names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9294	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mrs. Tomasic talking about Mirela Holly's resignation. In fact, that resignation was shown and three things could be read there. The first is that the former government hired people through a competition without looking at the political orientation visible from Mrs. Holy's e-mail. The second is that these people are scrambling now, and the third is if they are already scribbling and they have to, and that message has shown that the protection of people close to the SDP and that those who are employed during HDZ are removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9296	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9297	It's good that democracy is this structured, but there's one trap, it's hard to break the truth. So whoever you're listening to or looking at as... turns out to be telling the truth. Everything sounds very convincing and this last one, lastly it all has its own arguments but if we let everyone speak at any moment then it wouldn't be Parliament. What's true is that eventually people will decide. Some of us consider them intelligent beings and some objective manipulations. I am very happy with the level of empathy, compassion and support of the work of Mirela Holly, otherwise one of my closest associates, and also a friend in the party, and I am aware of how difficult it was. It's true, I've never seen such a level of support before, I haven't seen it at all. Now I see it, and about the motives for this support and for the deep understanding of some of the citizens' judgments whether they are sincere or perhaps not very honest. As for the reasons for her resignation I accepted, I say again, it's hard for me, but there are certain criteria. You saw what the president of the Federal Republic of Germany had to resign several months ago. I call on everyone to analyze this case and let them not take it as my lecture or doctoring. In the country where you came from and where you learned high democratic values, you worked as a police officer, similar cases are unfortunately treated the same way. I know that from literature, from experience, even from the talks of at least two of the highest officials of the Federation and the president of the province, and that's it. I'm glad about that, that's right, that's just it. These are the things we need to get used to, and here's the play going on and it's good to go and it's good to have a chance to tell the truth from the truth. That's fucking hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9298	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. Mr. Agent Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9299	Here I want to correct the Prime Minister's allegations, this is not a show, this is a session of the Croatian Parliament. If you want to go to the play, go to HNK. But the president of the Federal Republic of Germany resigned for moral reasons because he borrowed money from a friend, a defence minister, because he bought a doctorate, as well as the party president to whom Mrs. Ruza Tomasic belonged. He faked a doctorate or a master's degree, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9300	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9301	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that it's in foreign countries that it's also done. Well, since you know that I lived in Canada, it's not really how you do it, but if your associate made a mistake that he didn't mean, he didn't want to, or with his carelessness, and he was good, then he got some kind of warning, reproof, but he didn't have to resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9302	Thank you. An individual debate further. Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9303	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. It is absolutely certain that the right of the government, the right of the prime minister, is so long as it has the majority to appoint and replace ministers. The act is not really to be debated, but it is necessary to discuss the circumstances in which the Minister, now formerly removed, or the circumstances in which she resigned. Minister Holly's case actually confirms one regrettable fact, which is that corruption in Croatia is no longer the main topic. It's like the knife cut off all that, all the insubordination in the economy, in the public service when the Kukuriku coalition took place. Is that so, quite certain it isn't, it's a lie. Minister Holly actually warned very loudly about corruption. Minister Holly has repeatedly called out to the public that something is going on that's not good, that it's happening in a well that's very profitable. The government and the prime minister of the government have not responded to these cries. Now he's responding in principle, he didn't react loudly when he needed to. In between the lines, the minister spoke in fact that the resort she managed was dominated by the mafia and in her resignations after she resigned she spoke of the fact that behind her shift not actually standing this real reason that was listed, which is this mail that is quite certain of the conviction. I'm not such a moral person as to dare say if it was a big enough mistake to take a shift, but I'm pretty sure it should have been acted before Mrs. Holly reacted that something insecure was happening in the vault she was managing. Before, Mr. Prime Minister said this wasn't an office state. I wouldn't agree with that. If it's not the office, she's half-office, absolutely safe. The parliament has not yet discussed the Croatian National Bank, and already Mr Rohatinski has been removed, it has been removed, the messages have been sent. The prime minister said he did not want Mr Rohatinski to act as governor anymore, but it is the parliament that needs to discuss it, it is the parliament that should accept whether he will continue to work or not, although his mandate has expired. One of the inappropriate comparisons the prime minister sent to parliament several times was a comparison of the Croatian legal system and the US legal system. He says if the President of the United States can replace the vice president that's happened in history, then it's quite logical that the mayor, the mayor or the mayor can also replace his deputy. I'm sure if we applied the American system, we wouldn't even have a prime minister. What's going on in Croatia is actually the beating of democracy. You have trampled what is written in the laws, and the laws say that citizens choose the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. With Komadina's law, you have committed one legal violence that continues to be appointed here's a colleague who will perform in place instead of Minister Holy. So here I appeal to speak again about whether there is no more corruption in Croatia, whether it is false that Mrs. Holly was talking about the mafia in her portfolio and what the government is going to do to resolve all this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9304	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mr. Representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9305	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's colleague Vuksic, you said exactly that there's not one mail reason for this shift. From the discussion of the HNS club, we saw in fact that the reason that the HNS voted non-confidential to the former, now almost former, Minister Holy, and that they are not the same criteria for all, so here in the Parliament we saw when Deputy Minister of Social Policy in this House promised that no change of the Social Care Act would be used to politically change the directors of the Social Care Centre. Explicite said he will not be replaced by the one at Lug Samoborski and immediately after it was voted upon by the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Opacic, of course that the man has been removed. So here you see that they're not the same criteria for everything. And then, of course, is the question here, will the shift and vice president Opacic be asked as well? If it wasn't for the change, we have reason to believe that Minister Ostojić had one e-mailed the members of that Committee for Insemination. And that's what the prime minister said loud and clear, they were replaced because the new government has a second world view. So people are being replaced because of their worldview. So, apparently e-mails aren't the reason for this shift, but as we've seen, it's obviously a conflict between the first vice president and the CNS club with the rest of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9306	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9307	Here I am glad that for the first time in the Parliament, the opposition defends a changed minister or generally defends the Prime Minister. I think this is enough warning to Mr. Prime Minister that there's something wrong with that shift and that there's something behind that shift. If that's not enough signal, I don't know what the signal is. I'm sure the opposition here, as far as I've seen between the lines, does not say that because it would harm the government but really thinks that Mrs. Holly was a good minister and that behind this shift she's not an e-mail but she's standing something much, much bigger and it's worth it, I guess we'll see it for maybe four years, but I hope it'll be sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9308	And another replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9309	You see, an esteemed colleague is indeed Kodina's law, so we can also call him Mršić and Jakovina and a series of other names and last names was indeed a con of voters especially those who went to local elections, but also those who went to parliamentary elections. But even a bigger scam is the famous "Plan 21" that doesn't exist. On the other hand, I also doubt that everything that's been going on around the mail or the Secretary Holly's shift that someone would have kept in the drawer for 3 months and then just now put it out in the open, and I'm particularly surprised by the government's silence when the first Deputy Prime Minister after Secretary Holly's shift says there's a lot of kindergarten we're going to work now. What are we going to do, Mr. Prime Minister? I ask loud and clear. What does the First Deputy Prime Minister's statement mean after the Minister's shift, he went to kindergarten to go to work? What? Where and how? And why? As Prime Minister, you are obliged to give an answer to all MPs, as well as to the entire Croatian public. Finally, not to say what the "Plan 21" has become, so now it has the title "Plan 25" and the fall of the standards of Croatian citizens, I am not surprised because social democracy no longer lives in Croatia, it is turned into neoliberalism. After all, the Prime Minister himself said he was a liberal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9310	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9311	Here's a respected colleague of mine who worries me most about what the Prime Minister said didn't deny Mrs. Holly's threats, but he said she should wait and check. When a senior state official is threatened and that official publicly says that he is threatened and that it is an official we have not caught in a lie, which we have not caught in deception then the entire government, the prime minister, the president of the parliament, is to be raised and said this will not be a mob state. But that shot fell. What does it matter if a minister is threatening? As if that's important, we'll take care of it quietly. Quietly, corruption has been resolved for 22 years, and this country has been conquered by the mafia, and we have now admitted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9312	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9313	Thank you very much. I have time and patience for this kind of thing because I think it's important and it's good that we exchange opinions and attitudes like this. I repeat, you haven't asked me again, you've answered the word 20 times, you've got that right, you haven't asked me again how many people we temporarily hired in the state administration on the principle of turning doors because that principle applies only there. I'm waiting for you to finally ask me that and I'm here to answer all your questions, and then we'll expand that debate. Threats to high officials, I was talking about this introductoryly. I also talked about what I mentioned to the minister's candidate and told him that he had to talk to the family, colleagues from HDZ came a little later, so they didn't hear it, that he had to talk to his wife and family and ask them if they agree with the possible lifestyle. I think I've told you enough. But in public, I'm discussing such delicate things and checking their justifications enough to just say that I believe Mirelli Holly. And that's all. Anyone who gets into the details of that sort of thing is irresponsible to me, a loudmouth, a charlatan, and a threat to the safety and the person he's threatened, but also to the investigation. And that's how it is. Corruption can't be won at the noise. As far as the Law on Mayors and the Law on Local Self-Government is concerned, it is ours that these laws are irresponsibly bad, that they were passed in 2009, and not necessarily with the poor intention of the ruling majority, but simply amateur and wrong. This situation with deputy mayors is the least of the problems. I'll explain, though, why I think it's right and right and I'll give myself another minute, but there's a whole series of shortages of these bad and reckless laws. First of all, in relation to the representative body and the direct ban on the mayor. The entire one, the vast potential of the conflict of abuse, was simply delivered to the people. It's a bad job and we'll change that. Now let me go back to the so-called. "Comadina's Law." Therefore, Zlatko Komadina would have been proposed for a minister to change that law or not. The dilemma is, and I've said it here, and I'll repeat, was only in whether, with such a bad law, deputies have any legitimacy and we've put on the scale that legitimacy, that legitimacy of directly elected people along with the mayor, and the mayor and the chief and the costs and benefits of organising elections in the middle of the cycle, it costs. Since we started this whole story right out of a region where we are as a coalition and as a party we are successful. We simply said, aware of the criticism and abuse that would be going this way, we could call the elections, so that they could finish it, but I'm not going to suggest anything. Simply, the thing was 4 to 5 million kunas. The claim that it is not possible to compare the Croatian and American legal systems to me does not stand, it is possible to compare every legal political system, and especially individual solutions, and this is the ultimate solution. So we have on one hand the legitimacy of the President of the United States who put on his ticket a vice president or vice president who can or doesn't have to do anything for four years. These people are practically a little visible. In case of incompetence, the vice president's shift, with legitimacy, what kind? Rate for yourself the legitimacy of the vice president of the world's greatest power in relation to the legitimacy of the president and the way of choice and nomination. In my opinion, there's a huge difference in legitimacy. But the vice president changes the president if he has to after a week of office, full term. The same logic, allow me, along with certain possible small adjustments can be valid in Zagreb, both in the coastal-goran County, and in Bukovje, both in Čakovec and in Jastrebarska. And I think the citizens know that, and here I speak in principle. We have a bad law, it needs to be amended and more clearly defined by the mayor's authority, the mayor, compared to the representative body. Competences and limits of competence in budgeting are terribly sensitive things. And yes, that's why models should be compared, and that's why parliamentary, office or half office systems should be compared. You're saying this isn't an office, it's a half-office system, that's what you said. So maybe it's not office, but it's half-office. You're right, but between the office and the half-office, there's a huge difference, a huge difference. The office system has one of the biggest democracies in Europe. We think it doesn't suit us, we have our own system that's imperfect, I'm finishing it. So, please, you will repeat a hundred more times Komadina's law, the Dragon's Law. I understand the political need to wave it, it was simply a human choice. These people would enter the government and you know it very well, lovens nolens. Our resonation was, and we started from the county where we have good support, that we simply want not to spend 5 million kunas, and we applied that. And that's what the Constitutional Court is going to be about, and we're going to respect that decision, but I'm giving you my position he's not the result of a whim or plot, but simply a long thought here's the last three years. These are bad laws, endangering the functioning of the system, unnecessarily leading to the disbanding of the council, to the conflict of councils and commissioners. Neto wrote it, and someone put up a hand for it. And lastly, so once again, I'd be happy to have this level of support for work, now former Minister Mirela Holly's heard earlier. No, not a word. Someone may have said something commendable, but I didn't hear it followed. So when you praise her, know that a better friend than I and some of us are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9314	Thank you. We've got an update on the incorrect quote 3. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9315	With this president, he said the Law on the Direct Selection of Local and Regional Self-Government Leaders was passed amateurally. This law is true that this law has certain shortcomings, but it has not been passed amateurally but has been brought here in the Croatian Parliament. And even the SDP voted in favour of the law. It is now fearing local sheriffs, so the same SDP or the Liberal Party of Croatia fears directly elected local self-government leaders. But the law is what is most important to prevent the purchase of councilors, prevents the devastation of the budget of both the state and the county, both city and municipal, and that's the truth. We're asking the Prime Minister, but we can't hear the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9316	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9317	So here I am correcting Mr. Prime Minister's incorrect claim. He said a loud apparition of the threat of charlatanism. Insulting again the representatives of this House say enough about him, it is above all not charlatanism. Remember when it happens in any state, an orderly state, which Croatia is not, Western democracy, a threat to a state official, a threat to a police officer, a threat to a police chief, as the entire community stands, the entire government. We've been looking for, in fact, I've been looking for a principled attitude, a principle message to the mob that won't succeed with their threats, you're bringing down personal accounts here, it's very not. The second thing, you said American and Croatian models can compare, they can't compare, don't talk about it. You single out one segment of the U.S. judiciary and as an alibi for what you've been doing so far. And just a little bit more, just one more sentence, here's never overdoing time. And that's, you said this was half the office system, I'm sorry I said you ruled half the office. This is a parliamentary democracy, I'm sorry in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9318	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Representative Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll correct the incorrect allegations, some of them have already corrected their colleagues. I understand the need to wave it politically. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, it is our duty to warn you, as it was also my duty to warn you that we have a representative of the SDP who was on trial at the time, and now has been unlawfully sentenced to eight months. So please, take off that coat of morality that's become quite transparent, don't tell us about what's moral, which is not and that because of some quasi of moral principles you've replaced your colleague Holly. So the criteria can be like this, and the criteria of how they do it, and your picket is common, "That's not how it's done," then you could say that's how it's done, for example in Međimurje. If you're not in SDP or HNS you can't get a job, you can't even get a job on an investment, so that's how you do it, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9320	Thank you. Finally on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. After which the prime minister can still be shown. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9321	Here's the esteemed Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin this final debate on behalf of the club also with words of disappointment sent by MP Vukšić, that here in the Croatian Parliament we have the opportunity to hear again the words of offensive character for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And in my last term, I personally experienced a series of insults from the type of fool, monkey, etc. when they were led by fierce, even loud debates. But they came from the ranks I must confess to certain representatives of which most today are not present in the Croatian Parliament, then ruling majority. For the first time, however, if I am not mistaken, I hear such offensive words from the president of the Croatian government. And so I ask the President of the Croatian Government to make sure in the future that he himself has been a representative in the Croatian Parliament until recently, that you have strongly opposed such insults and therefore a loud argument or bile debate, please do not call anyone else in the Croatian Parliament provoking and charlatanism. But let's get back to this agenda point we're discussing today. Therefore, it is clear to all that this is a strong conflict of political interests within the ruling coalition between the SDP and the HNS but also a strong conflict of various stakeholders who have indeed contributed to this shift. I must look back on the often repeated thesis that this is the high moral act of Minister Holly. Her work and I personally appreciated and appreciated her, but the fact that she did something that was not moral and that she did what she was supposed to do. As I recall, it would have been better in that past government if many ministers had made such moves, because many of them would not have ended up then in Remetinco, but probably again in the Croatian Parliament. But as far as I remember, only Minister Stavenic resigned for truly moral reasons, without having to do so. You remember that affair with Baxter. I think it was really her least fault. We're talking here today about leaving because of this controversial e-mail that the fact wrote and wrote itself as if it didn't matter what it was done badly, but as if the most important thing was who discovered it was wrongly done. It's like telling you that in a bank robbery it doesn't matter that this bank was robbed and who robbed it, it's the bank's fault because it has a safe full of money. Because if he didn't have a safe full of money, then the robbery probably wouldn't have happened. It is well known for all in Croatia and should not be concerned with politics especially that in the government for a long time, the ruling coalition really has a quiet conflict and war between the two largest partners between the SDP and the HNS and it is known that there is a war that will employ more party personnel. You said Mr. Prime Minister that those who will be employed in this way are only temporary employees and if I'm not mistaken, you said you'd be marked. So I invite you, give you a chance to temporarily hire non-partisan staff, those of the many unemployed and eager any, let alone the well-paid work it is like being a director, a board member, a supervisory board or adviser for 15 thousand kuna salaries many today would be happy to be marked. And you asked me and you asked us, ask us to ask you. We'll ask you, but not just what you want us to ask you. We'll ask you what you don't want us to ask you. The exact list of all the party personnel you're in this government, because you think it belongs to you because you won the election. And in the end, Mrs. Tomasic only to you and the information to the entire Croatian public of Osijek-Baranja County, we have 9 leaders in Osijek-Baranja County, of these 9 leaders of 6 are non-partisan, non- HDSSB. 3 are members of the party, the public works. And what we're particularly proud of is nine frontals six are women, and three are men. And I would have told you, it would have been better if you had been less involved in breaking up or breaking up a large Croatian party like HSP just to satisfy your personal ambitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9322	Thank you very much. In a way, you HDSSB reps are way out of line for the debate, so I'm asking you to really take care of it. Now you have a chance to see your time running out, to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Correction of an incorrect quote, two corrections. Mr. Representative Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9323	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a few incorrect allegations. I'm going to start by saying that there's a war in the coalition between the leading parties who's going to hire more personnel. Probably Mr. Buric as a party representative who knows how to fight for jobs, and is known to call their party in Osijek-Baranja County a staffing service. Let us not be fooled in the context of this is this second incorrect quote, to remind fellow representatives of the 9 leaders who walk with notebooks with a list of party colleagues who should be arrested especially in school in Osijek-Baranja County. And this trick with members and leaders who are not members and with the establishment of an association called the same as the party, I'll let the public judge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9324	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9325	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Buric looks like you can get into anything, you can't go to the HDSSB and they can say anything. The second inaccuracies are that I've parted HSP, because I've been making since the '90s. So when justice left that party, I had the right to leave that party. And sir, I suggest you clean up in front of your own door, because you have in that party everything and everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9326	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9327	So there's still room for correcting an incorrect quote or for abuse of correcting an incorrect quote so I'm calling you again to ask me, you're having a hell of a hard time going through your mouth. Ask me how many people are employed in the state administration in all ministries, how many parties, how many non-partisans, you can't ask me that. The public will conclude that you are embarrassed to ask, and I keep asking you to ask me, that I finally tell you how many people are temporarily engaged at a certain time in all cabinets and in all ministries in innocent positions on the principle of "revenament door", so come in and out, gentlemen, come out. It comes out because they're just being watched. You know who these people are, you'll get a list of those people. Ask me how many there are. But you won't ask me that, and it's rude for me to impose it on you like this now, but it's symptomatic that you don't want to ask me. As for the insult, I repeat, listening to it, so each individual debate acts as a total truth as a substrate of truth, and so it is that I have offended someone here. No, I wasn't offended. I didn't call you provocators, I said it was provoked, and provocation is neither a crime nor an offence, it can be an affirmative provocation. It's just a way of working. So, I didn't say that, and you're correcting the wrong allegations. As for charlatanism, if you listen to what I'm saying, what you can and don't have, then you'd hear that I said that a public, loud, noisy reaction from the executive authority would represent charlatanism. You have a stenogram here, check it out. I know what I'm saying. So, I don't think you're a charlatan, I think that's simply what happens to fellow Vuksic, the form of political action and communication. You're using it, and I'm saying you can't expect me to expect a tad level because on mine, not saying it's a high or low level in a job that I do with such things is not a joke. I know best, or I should know best what's going on or not, and my associates and it's no plot, secret or conspiracy, but simply a serious job. So did you expect that the moment something like that came out in public to share weapons with everyone? That's not how you do it. So I'm fighting these evils in a different way and if you'd listened to what I said and you didn't have to, you'd hear that I wasn't talking about you, I was talking about myself. Very clear. It's like when it comes to provocation, so I'm calling you again, you picked up the plate, ask me finally, so I'm gonna break it down at the end, I'm gonna throw how much. But ask me, you can't ask me. I don't deal with your party and how you formed a party and who's turned everything into a party, from which all the middle people come, that's your business. People are looking at it, finding out who's honest, who's dishonest. I've never said anything about myself and my associates. I won't tell them that he's honest, that they're honest people, that I'm honest. That's what people see. As for those who came in here in the 1990s without anything, and now according to the distinguished MP Tomasic, they still sit here and have a lot, say who these people are. I didn't insinuate or call anyone, I just want to talk, we don't get a lot of opportunities. And you use your means, and I use mine. The epithets you mentioned here were sent to you, and from the sphere are fauna from us you've never heard of. I don't even think about you, but to use the means of political work that I don't hold to at all and which I simply don't want on my website in our party, I think, so let the citizens evaluate. At the end of the day, I'm calling you again. We had a nice talk. I've been a little bit of a pain in your ass, but that's my job. Support Michael Dragonovich. Empathy towards SDP ministers, to coalition government ministers who have left for disease or other reasons, show it before. I believe this is the last case anyone leaves, but if we have an entire mandate ahead of us, and we believe we have, anything is possible. It's possible I'm leaving, too, and it's possible that any of the ministers or ministers will leave, so I invite you in advance to commend us if we usually hear it only when people leave. It's a strange world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9328	Thank you very much. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9329	Yes, thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, it is an incorrect assumption that we do not want to ask and that we are afraid to ask. That's what you said. But we're going to ask very carefully, be assured, I've announced. I will request it in writing from you, but not only the number of people who are basically open doors as you say you have hired, but also those you have hired on the party line and as members of the supervisory boards, and as members of the boards of directors of public companies, at all levels, by name and last name. You'll get a written question and then you'll probably give a written answer. Just this, you said you didn't like the way you speak in your ranks. Your right, the citizens are estimating. Our citizens have assessed our way of talking and what we are talking about we must talk about has been evaluated in previous parliamentary elections as will be very soon much faster than you think to evaluate our way of working in the next election. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And unfortunately, I don't believe this is the last shift of your ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9330	Thank you. I don't know what makes this the last claim that it's incorrect, but you're still using the correction of an incorrect quote while you can. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic rectification of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9331	Thank you. Also the correction that we didn't ask. So we ask all the time. I asked what happened to Slavonia. The Prime Minister's speech at the Parliament's session when the government was enthroned or she was shot that Slavonia would not be neglected and Baranja. Obsessed to an evil god. What about decentralisation? There's no answer. After all, we ask about these laws. What did they serve? For someone to be a minister for a month, a month and a half, he hooked up with the Prime Minister and goodby. In the end, I asked, which means the statement of the first Deputy Prime Minister, the kindergarten went thinking of Mirela Holly, let's work. I asked, what, where, how and why? And there's no answer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9332	Thank you very much. He can't even be in the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister can't give you an answer right now. Here you are, finally, Mr Branko Vuksic. Here you go. It can't, you know it well, so now you're asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9333	So I'm correcting Mr. Prime Minister's incorrect claim that I would understand him wrongly, so I recommend that he speak clearly, I feel an average intelligent man who understands certain things that any charlatanism speak out loud against what's going on, take a stand. We're looking for a busy political stance. I repeat, outside when similar things happen, there is a loud and clear response. We're just asking him to react that the mob won't pass. No one asks you to take arms into your own hands, no one takes arms in such reactions. Take a stand in your hands and give a little attitude to the Croatian public to know what is actually going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9334	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to Mihajl Zmajlovic to perform his duties as Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection. We need 76 votes. May we please raise our hands and see who's up for this proposal? Who's against it? Please, who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, with 83 votes in favour, 6 against and 26 abstentions, have shown confidence in Mihael Zmajlovic for his duties as Minister of Environment and Nature. Before congratulating him, we're going to take the oath, so I'm asking Mr. Dragonovich to stand up. [[Applause.]] I'll read the text of the oath, and then you, Mr. Dragon, will say you swear. I swear that I will be conscious and honorable in my duties as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9335	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9336	I congratulate the minister on his trust, and I wish him a lot of success in his work. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister Dragonovich. And we continue to work by moving on to the next item of the agenda, which is - Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2011 The Report is submitted by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Gender Equality. You've received reports. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? This is Madam Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Vishny Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9338	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9339	Please, please. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9340	There is a report before you on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, with the State of Defence Preparations report. I submit a report on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 16. Defense laws. This report presents to the Croatian Parliament as well as to the entire Croatian public how the defence system works, which it develops, how it fulfils its social role and has the means to which it is entrusted. The report is also the basis for the implementation of democratic surveillance over the Armed Forces. The eight main parts of the report show the state and readiness of the defence system in 2011 and the key developments in the upcoming period. The structure and content of the report has been changed compared to previous years so that greater emphasis is placed on the state of readiness of the Armed Forces. We also wanted the report to be more transparent, more concrete and clear. We want to point to real problems and difficulties that the defence system faces and demonstrates to the holders of the legislative authority. The report is also a zero starting point for the four-year term of the defence minister. The Republic of Croatia is in an area where economic and political transition is still taking place. However, the whole region will say it is too difficult to mark the stability and security of strongly expressed European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations. However, this does not exclude the need to develop the defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia as a long-term security factor. During the past year, the serious activities of the defence system have been focused on achieving and maintaining the necessary level of readiness to carry out the tasks and to achieve adequate interoperability with allies. The main efforts in line with the defence policy provisions are aimed at participating in international operations, supporting civil institutions to carry out national exercises and exercises within the framework of international military cooperation. In addition, there is a continuation of the planned fill-up, training of troops of the Armed Forces Commands and their equipment to the extent permitted by the defence budget. Let me remind you that the defence budget of the Department of Defense for the past year was $5.12 billion or 1.47% of GDP. As you have already had the opportunity to read in the media, the defence minister presented to the Government of the Republic of Croatia an annual report indicating the state of military technology, equipment and weapons, and I also reiterated it on the Defence Committee. All the media transmitted it, and all the data numbers are in the report that's in front of you, so I'm not going to repeat them here today. However, I need to stress the further commitment of the Republic of Croatia to an active contribution to peace building, security and stability worldwide. In the past year, Croatia has actively participated in 11 international UN, NATO and European Union operations with an average of 485 members and members after each rotation. Armed Forces members and members successfully carry out all tasks in the international environment under extremely demanding conditions, indicating a high level of their preparation and training. Up until now, some 5,000 members of the Armed Forces have participated in peacekeeping operations, with 156 women seeking to disprove the thesis of training and equipment only when they go on peacekeeping missions, as such trained members of the Armed Forces return to the Republic of Croatia and transfer their knowledge and skills to members of the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia. The defence system has made a significant and visible contribution to the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the EU's common security and defence policy by including in a combat group led by Sweden, as well as through participation and support in EU operations towards different modes. In 2011, through the system of our Armed Forces, it passed and successfully completed the training of 600 voluntary handbooks, which was accepted by our 528 active military personnel, but was abandoned by 715 members of the Armed Forces. The multi-annual commitment to the inclusion of Croatian-economic capacities in the development of the capabilities of the Armed Forces has resulted in the continuation of the production and integration of the fighting armored vehicle as one of the largest equipment projects of the Armed Forces. We also continued to develop and produce a domestic assault rifle and to introduce it into the armed forces, to identify ourselves as a domestic rifle for which the Armed Forces will be equipped. A new armor and other equipment has been produced, adapted to the tasks under the most demanding conditions in which members and members of the Armed Forces carry out their duties. However, I will point out once again that the defence system has been functioning in the context of a reduced defence budget that has slowed the planned development of the Armed Forces for the past few years. The main challenges of reducing the defence budget were maintaining the functionality of existing resources and continuing to equip the modernisation and transformation of the Armed Forces. Under such conditions, the system had to be adapted to savings and rationalisation in all areas, from equipment and modernisation to material and personal costs in such a way as to ensure that the basic missions of the Armed Forces in the defence of the country, the contribution to peace building and assistance to civil institutions were still not compromised. Requirements for the possession of those defence capabilities that the Republic of Croatia will be able to respond to current and future security threats have conditioned a review of existing plans and ways of functioning of the system, which is why the process of strategic defence review began in 2011, and this year will be completed. The Strategic Defence Review will focus the future development of the defence system in line with the needs and capabilities of the Republic of Croatia and provide guidance for the development of a new long-term armed plan. The long-term plan adopted by this Croatian Parliament will provide a projection of the development of defence capabilities needed to deal with modern threats within the available budget. The readiness of the defence system, the implementation of the human resources policy and the overall situation in the Armed Forces described in this report show that despite difficulties, the Republic of Croatia's defence system has successfully responded to the tasks it had before it, mainly those concerning the concrete use of forces both in support of civil institutions and in international operations. Finally, the key challenges and developments of the next period can be undermined by several of the most important. Developing the capacity of the Armed Forces in line with commitments, the adopted objectives of forces and other tasks arising from NATO membership. Establish the target structure and the numerical size of the Armed Forces according to the new structure, but also through new legal proposals that we have begun to make. Take part in peace operations with approximately the same abilities and potentially reduced powers. Continue to provide assistance to civil institutions, improve training through a system of focused combat training, start building coastal patrol ships as an emergency so that the Coast Guard can fulfil its constitutional task, make a decision on the ability of full air surveillance of the Republic of Croatia, continue to build facilities for the storage and storage of murderous funds, implement reforms aimed at future development of the Armed Forces in accordance with the needs and capabilities of the Republic of Croatia and ensure that the Armed Forces are reduced as much as possible, pardoning the equipment of the Armed Forces as possible through the Croatian economy. Strengthen management processes and responsibilities as persons working in the defence system. Dear Mr President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the achievements detailed in this report confirm further progress by the Republic of Croatia in the process of transforming the Armed Forces into a relatively small but effective force specifically for the implementation of the assigned tasks. I thank you for your attention, and I hope that the debate on this report will contribute to the direction of further development of the defence system and the achievement of the best defence capabilities within the means for which our citizens and citizens stand out for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9341	Thank you, too, for Vishny Tafra, Deputy Minister of Defense. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? If not, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First we go to clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP club and respected Sandra Petrovic signed up for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Secretary of Defense, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia provided the Croatian Assembly with the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of human resources policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of this report, the Croatian Parliament shall discuss and bring a court not only on the situation in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are located but also on the very way of managing the funds allocated from the budget for the defence of the territory and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the event of a threat as well as on other transactions in the area of the Armed Forces. Croatia stands out for the 1.47% of GDP defence system in 2011 which is, in any case, less than the NATO average for such separation of about 2%, and in 2012, Croatia will single out 1.38% of GDP. However, although it is not too much comfort from some NATO member states, less than 1% of GDP stands out for the needs of the defence system. However the Croatian Armed Forces are facing difficult tasks in the past and in the years to come because most of the necessary equipment whose purchase, repair and repair is quite a major financial burden for the budgets has been time-consuming and outdated, and the dynamics of the purchase of new equipment are not satisfactory, so there is a risk of loss of ability or a critical reduction of some capabilities. We can conclude from this report that great skills and skills will be needed in the management of defence resistors in the years of the general economic crisis and recession which is particularly difficult to reflect on Croatia due to the mismanagement and not only of defence policy but of the entire state during the term of office of the former government. Given the budget cuts that this government had to carry out at the beginning of the year, it is expected that equipment and modernisation projects will continue to be slowed down by dynamics and that there will be delays and delays in the development of planned capabilities. Nevertheless, what is really worth pointing out from the report in question is the fact that Croatia successfully mastered and completed the defence tasks set before it by the third year of NATO membership, as well as EU and UN membership. And that she maintained her abilities, which, in these difficult circumstances, was certainly a great challenge. The defence system is not only intended to participate in international, military, peace missions, although it is in 2011. The Republic of Croatia participated in 11 such members, with as many as 485 members, the most members of the ISAF mission in Afghanistan, followed by KFOR in Kosovo. And by participating in these, as well as other missions and projects such as the UN, the EU and the OSCE, and regional initiatives such as the Adriatic-American Charter, Merraklia, towards the form of defence ministers of Southeast European countries. The Republic of Croatia as a very young NATO member with only three years of experience is proven in the international community as a state with a high level of consciousness. On the contribution to international security and stability, and thus promotes the Republic of Croatia by making it a prominent member of the international community. The policy of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia should continue in the next period. The good and rule of deploying funds that may not be sufficient for the planned and desired development of abilities, but certainly for retaining existing ones without at the same time jeopardising the completion of the tasks taken by the Republic of Croatia as a responsible member of Euro-Atlantic integration. The primary and task of the armed forces to form and prepare for the mission of defence of sovereignty and independence and territorial integrity. At a time when the Republic of Croatia enjoys as a NATO member a large part of stability and security precisely thanks to the strong effect of deterring the threat of its territory. Armed forces are naturally committed to participating in international operations and helping civilian institutions. For example, part of the territory of one such activity would refer to the fact that part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia located in the thorny area and in that area at all times is possible earthquakes. Also, the Adriatic coast and sea belt can be highly endangered by environmental and security, not to mention armed assault. In the event that a threat or a threat to safety occurs, we can count on having a ready defence system that can react quickly, but in any case, there was a backdrop in Article 5. A NATO-member alliance agreement that says, "To attack one of the members, is considered an attack on all members." The report item that we can almost fully be satisfied with is training and it is a basic specialist and international military training for international operations. For example, basic military training in 2011 was the success of a high 99%. These military trainings, despite limited resources, are standardised and meet the requirements set, training members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to acquire special knowledge, as well as additional content such as learning English language and preparedness to provide assistance in the event of natural and technical and technological disasters. We certainly bind these human positive movements to new arrivals by personnel and members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are going through specialized military training, and the other is the unpleasant issue of release from the Croatian Armed Forces Service for the purpose of the staff discharge that was carried out last year. The issue of gender representation should also be mentioned. In the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia there are 12.61% of women, which is certainly an unsatisfactory percentage, and it decreases with the rise of the level of leadership and command. These are only challenges to be faced by the next generations in line with the International Conventions on the Position of Women, Peace and Security and the National Action Plan adopted in 2011, which is related to the strengthening of women's positions in this area. As far as training is concerned, the defence system in future periods should consider developing new skills related to new forms, the threat of security such as terrorism, cyber terrorism, energy threats or nuclear threats and other forms of threats. As a member of NATO, the Republic of Croatia must be aware that, together with other members, talks and plans currently under consideration in the Security Council that are certainly not static on its defence policy should be monitored. It is also an example of the recent addition of pro-tourkat defence to the NATO area. It is very certain that colleagues and colleagues, for example, one cyber attack on a country can paralyze the entire system and cause unsuspecting, negative consequences for its population. These are modern dangers that are no longer in the sphere of science fiction but are reality, but at the same time the question arises, do those frameworks of defence and security of a particular state, let alone the NATO alliance itself? Nuclear energy and weapons of mass destruction also pose new dangers to security and stability if they are in the hands of terrorists. New types of unconventional threats should encourage both NATO and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to be able to respond to the challenges and prevent the negative consequences of the attack in the same way as when it comes to traditional threats such as explosive attacks. In this regard, it is a very important idea of a smart defence in which NATO is being intensely negotiated today. Smart defence is a collective defence system that allows us to meet security challenges even in times of economic crisis and reduced investment in the development and restoration of capabilities and weapons with high interoperability. However, it should not be forgotten, even at times when cooperation in the field of defence and security is intensified, due to cost reductions, that responsibility for security and defence capacity must be borne by the state itself because it is the bearer of sovereignty. As for investments in the land military system, the Croatian Navy and Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence cannot be satisfied with its level, but we can certainly say that in times marked by budget cuts on all sides, this level of investment is expected. Scary data on age and regularity color equipment and techniques. The correctness of tanks is 24%, regularity in armory and missile systems 49% Non-war techniques and vehicles are on average 21 years old. The coast guard has four patrol ships, and they are older than two representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The data is worrying, but it's not surprising, and we're hoping for progress. It should also not be forgotten that investment in defence system equipment can also have positive effects for economic activities in Croatia mainly for military and accompanying equipment manufacturers, which is equipped with the Croatian Army. Finally, we appreciate that this report is well-represented and recognised critical points of the system, that the analysis and assessment of the overall situation is realistic and that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia correctly recognises the existence of priorities in costs and investments, and will support this report from all of the above mentioned SDP clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9343	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next club of IDS representatives and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9344	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Tafra, the most esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives. So this report can be called in a way a report on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in these international missions. This is an emphasis on this report, and most of its opening address is certain, or is dedicated to Mrs Tafra. Indeed, this is what the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are all about today. Yesterday, Croatia was the recipient of military aid, today we are participating in the provision of military protection across the whole range of countries. We heard the data Croatia is participating not to quote them on these 11 military missions now. And that's kind of our debt to that international community. However, Croatia participates in one I dare say to the ultimate dubious mission. I'm talking about Afghanistan. The new French president has openly announced the withdrawal of French troops this year, more specifically by 31.12.2012. And then you're really asking yourself a question and that's what we're looking for there. I would like to make a mistake, but neither the Soviet Union has managed to Pacific Afghanistan in its time, nor will it follow NATO or NATO forces. Thank God that no Croatian soldier there has suffered what they will say that either we are a little more calm in the north, or down in Kabul, or it is certain that it is true that it is the top-of-the-line trained soldiers. We all know and we heard just before how much this military budget for 2012 or eleven is worth to us. Extremely little, so little that I dare even say that the safety of soldiers has become in some way questionable because of an unsustainable system. We, for defense at this point, stand out 1.49% of gross social product, Circ. 5.1 billion kuna. Clearly, many will immediately say that the safety of our soldiers because of unsustainable equipment is not questionable. Okay. I can even agree with that. Understandably, I'm not in favour of some larger military budget. The situation in the country is getting dramatically worse every day. We've been tracking the latest days' gross social product in the first quarter is 1.3% lower than the previous quarter. Industrial production in the first quarter is as much as 9 points slightly smaller. Trade and public spending about 7% less. Our exports are about 19% lower than in that quarter last year. And all the other parameters are unfortunately bad. I'm afraid it's going to be worse, and then it doesn't have to be surprised by some senior government officials who say the second quarter will be worse in 2012. Therefore, there is no money, and if there is no money there will be no such thing as the restoration of the military technique of the Croatian Army. The military technique is extremely expensive, the maintenance of this military technique is also expensive, the money is gone, the purchase of new existing assets in the budget is clearly inaccessible to us. On the other hand, it is true that Croatia is not a threatened country. Croatia is securely stable. Whether we're going to be politically stable or not, that's another question now. However, as we deal with gay marriages, ok. more than shipbuilding. It seems that everything in the country is in the best order, but it won't be possible to even draw attention to something that isn't life right now. On page 14, this report is literally said, let me quote the funds for the maintenance of military assets are primarily intended to maintain an aircraft technique including an anti-fire squadron at the top of maintenance priorities. In the anti-fire season, a level of 60% of continuous operational availability of all aircraft has been reached. And what is also interesting on page 15 is the maintenance of vessels of maritime and technical means under conditions of unfavourable and then reduced financial resources has been carried out selectively to maintain navigation until individual Croatian equipment systems and marine and technical means have been maintained by the prescribed dynamics. 12 ships have been remounted. It's given up on a six-ship remont. In maintaining ship navigation, coast guard ships are said to be the priority, and then it is said that the years-long insufficient financing of maintenance of the ground military combat technique has reduced the regularity that has fallen below the level to ensure the smooth performance of the land army's tasks. The most critical is the regularity of tanks that amounted to 24% of the total of 75 tanks, armory totalling 49% of the 226 assets, and missile support systems. So then says the Armed Forces have 22 military storage complexes with a total of 181 storage facilities for the storage of all classes of military material of it only 57 warehouses, or only 31% corresponds to the modern environmental safety regulations of the European Union, so it may be no wonder why that terrible explosion happened in Knin, don't catch me by the word a year or a half ago. Another thing to say. Yes, that security system or rather, that military system is overstretched. You could almost say he's kind of out of the machine. The military industry, it's today, come on all private, is on its knees. Barriers to export military techniques are still uniform to this market should be absolutely liberalised. I still didn't know why 90, which, first, second, third, didn't matter, flew into the deep ditch or what it's called that warehouse here at Zagreb, and we don't really know why it flew into the air a year or two ago and this warehouse near Knin. What's good at what needs to be put an emphasis which is certainly very well maintained that these canadists are they have dared to say dominant civilian character. And every year the pilots who run those aircraft do a very useful job that we all have to be grateful for. However, Croatia also dares to say it must have at least, I don't know, a dozen operational aircraft not because of the war but that evil did not need any air terrorism and we will see what will happen in due course in this matter. In this context, I am certainly interested in what will eventually happen with this airport or airport anyway in Pula. Is the army leaving that complex? All right, well, that's at least protected objects, and nothing's going to happen there, I mean the robbery that's happening on one Katarina, the monuments, on a hydrobaza in Pula, because if the military retreated or when they retreated, then there's a lot of devastation. When I say an army, I mean those soldiers who provide the protection of individual objects. In one word, if the army had completely retreated or left the museum overnight, that space job would have devastated as well as I don't know Hidrobaza or anything else. It is clear that I am for demilitarisation, but I am not naive enough to think that Croatia can do without a relatively small military contingent, and lately, if I am not mistaken, a number of 17 thousand members of the Armed Forces is beginning to be mentioned. Croatia passed the war, went through a massive mobilization, followed by demobilization. A hard effort to be to say that after '91. create an army. Due to the war, Croatia currently has about 60 thousand people with disabilities. The true God of the end of the war is welcomed with 30,000 people with disabilities. As possible on another occasion, during this second item of the agenda. For these people, a clear society must care for as well as for families of the victims and the missing, and they must by no means be neglected. It's just a shame to be back in '91. forgot about the NOB fighters, first of all, I mean the disabled NORs who were completely deprived of the so-called. rights acquired. I like to say that the hand lost around what I know... '43. It's the same as the lost hand around Knin in '95, life lost in '41. Buric in Kozara is the same thing as losing his life in Vukovar in '91, surviving Auschwitz or Dachao is the same if not harder than surviving Serbian camps in '91. A year. And that's why it's not fair that these people didn't get even with the Homeland War fighters. But let's let it go now. Page 26. Targeted numerical size here I quote "the active composition of the Armed Forces is 16 active military personnel and a thousand 600 civil servants, officials and tenants. The number of armed forces on 31 December 2011 was 18 thousand and 20 of them 2 thousand 274 women, 15 thousand 746 men remain," etc. It is interesting and this on page 27. These have been continuously conducted since 2007 by a study of the views of 18-year-old recruits at the academy. General attitudes towards the military, interest in joining the Armed Forces, etc. are being examined. It's all right. Perhaps it would be good to ask them what, for example. They think of those burnings and the destruction of the Storm. A storm that was absolutely legitimate, but what happened after 8, '95 doesn't serve anyone honor and those who ran that policy should be instead of Gotovina and Markac who I think are the last to be in The Hague. What's also interesting is 22 top athlete athletes, so here's what five women say, is a soldier-soldier per contract. It is certainly a good thing that now there is preparation for the Olympics, that they run their work, that their pensions run, that they get paid, that they can engage in sports and that the Olympics hope for good successes, and before that clearly Croatia wins the Croatian football team over Italy. And for the end, unspective property should be given to local self-government. I mean these facilities, military, I don't know barracks, warehouses anyway. And the fact is with 5 billion kunas or more specifically 5 billion 116 million 425 thousand and 557 kuna systems are overstretched. It's beneath those ideal 2% of GDP, it's 1.47% of GDP, little for such a expensive system, but simply at this point little for such a sophisticated system but simply at this point it's not possible anymore. There are still no Istrian generals. The truth is, the God of the Istrian fetishes that I express myself will not be in the military or the police. I'm calling them. Come in. In moments when it's only safe that there will be fewer jobs tomorrow and when only those state jobs are safe and that's the option, come in. And lastly, today the Armed Forces do not have that political dimension as in the 1990s and it is certainly also true that the enormous thing about it is either played out or done by former President Stipe Mesic and that I would say even in time spare us an institutional resistance to part of the officer general's staff, I mean that retirement of 12 generals and thus actually begin in some way depolitisation processes in the Croatian Army of democratisation. The report is correct and clearly needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9345	Thank you very much, Your Honor. At your presentation we have one correction of the incorrect allegations, it is the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that the rights of NOB members have been lifted. On the contrary, it is about something quite the opposite of what we are warning about, and we will warn as long as the authorities responsible for this are not seriously concerned. It is an amazing fact that in Croatia today 67 years after the end of World War II we have even less than 34,000 users of privileged pensions of participants of the National Liberation War, and of which, contrary to all other categories, the largest number is those who receive it as a family pension. Not as an adult, not as a disabled, somewhere around 21, 22 thousand. I ask the question who, 67 years after the People's Liberation War, is still alive since the People's Liberation War, which 34000 and those 9000 real participants who are probably still alive are those who are receiving that age-old pension and about 2,000 people with disabilities. That is correct, but I'm probably expressing a public suspicion that it's also about abuse and criminal use, criminal use of non-acquired preferential pensions that fall, you know how much the state budget costs, 600 million kuna a year. Those 21,000 non-retirement pensions...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9347	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9348	People's Liberation War participants. It's a crime, and that's what we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9349	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was reported by the honourable representative Damir Cain. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9350	Isn't it a crime for Mr. Buric to receive that privileged pension at this time and 20 thousand Ustashas and the natives...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9351	In which the Rules of Procedure is injured, Your Honor. ... Okay. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Injury to the injury, to hear what it looks like. Dear Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9352	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9353	Fellow MPs...... Fellow MPs be...... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] My colleagues! ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Fellow MPs, this is not a football game, it's a Croatian Parliament. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] [[Upadica Buric: It has the means to increase pensions for all those who have made a fair profit in Croatia.]] Please answer and discuss when you get your word. I ask you nicely on behalf of Croatian citizens who would like to hear what you think, so allow me to give you a word or chair and turn on the microphones. Thank you very much. Now you've taken advantage of a true colleague. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are going to the next debate and the esteemed representative Drazen Djurović and the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. So after this partly rather unconstructive debate of my predecessor, I would return to this subject just to express my regret, I am sorry that there is no minister actually here today, the minister's name is Ante, today is Saint Ante, so we could also congratulate him and all the other Antonians, Antonias and others who worship St. Antuna Padunski. I'm going to have this debate, in some ways it's going to be to express the review of this report, it's going to be free, it's going to be voluntary, but hopefully it won't be harmful or untrue. I would actually start by looking at the last page of the report, which is a review of the structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We see that a small army called the Croatian Army that has 15500 members other than three basic tribes still has two generations or two separate formations, which are the Croatian Military School and the Support Command. The large armies, much larger than the Croatian army form all their formations within these three generations. One small army agreed under the headquarters of five formations that still have 49 design units that are under these 5 groups, so Croatian Land Army, Navy, Air Force with PZ and Support Command and Croatian Military School are isolated from the tribes. 49 smaller structural units are located below these 5 breeding groups. I say once again a small army, and of all that we have two combat troops left. We had nine guard brigades, we had seven, we had five, we have three, we have two left. One is called the Guard Motorised Brigade, the other a Guard armored-mechanized brigade within the Croatian Land Army. But that's why we have some kind of Support Command, so we have a logistics operating center, a service combat, a supply battle, a combat for general logistics support, a special logistics within some other tribes. What I'm saying is that such a large number of totals are obviously still too much of the appetites of some people inside the Armed Forces and too much need for great acts. Therefore, there is a certain possibility that this form of the Armed Forces can be further rationalised and reduced to that real measure and to the human needs and those potentials that the Armed Forces should have at all. As far as the report is concerned, I'm kind of embarrassed, I'm embarrassed. I don't know how many MPs have read this report, this report is good, it's quite objectively depicting the situation in the Armed Forces even though it fails and a whole series of devastating facts relating to the current situation in the Armed Forces. So much bad is written about the situation in the Armed Forces on this report that I am almost uncomfortable in this television broadcast and in front of this Parliament at all refer to this report, but that is, so is the state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Three are the basic tasks of the Armed Forces, i.e. basic activities. The first is the protection of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. It's a basic task of the Armed Forces. The second is the task of participating in international operations and the third is the assistance i.e. Support to civilian institutions. As regards support for civil institutions, it includes support for the health system, so emergency transport of patients, victims, transport of transplant authorities, fire-fighting tasks, as well as search and rescue on land and sea, the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. We had an example of water transportation to Podgorica, the removal and clearing of the ruins, the support of associations, local self-government, sports and honoring the deceased Croatian defenders. We believe that the Armed Forces are strained in carrying out too many of these non-war tasks. Armed forces are not civil protection, nor should they become. And they became because the civil protection system is obviously in ruins and not functioning. No one can remember, and whenever he thinks of raising the Armed Forces because of any events that occur within the Republic of Croatia. And for what unsatisfactory tasks these people engage in for free, very often beyond their working hours, and they've never been paid for it. As for participation in international military operations, about 485 members of the Armed Forces were already said after the rotation. The HDSB is primarily against Croatian soldiers being cannon meat for the achievement of political ambitions of various and large forces throughout the world, mainly where the Republic of Croatia has no more significant political or military or geopolitical interests. At this point, almost the entire armed forces system and most resources are focused on carrying out tasks related to this extensive participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in various international missions. To a good extent, training has been neglected, and most of the resources are actually focused on preparing and participating in the implementation of these numerous international military operations. We point out that in 2011 operations led by the EU and NATO alliance took part by about 77% of the RS's total force in peacekeeping missions. This means that our Armed Forces did not participate to the greatest extent in UN missions, but rather in NATO missions, which will bring potential long-term and long-term and security risks in addition to short-term political gains. Therefore, as well as due to the state of real resources of our Armed Forces, which are already unable to monitor more and more complex, risky and expensive demands from NATO, the HDZB operations do not share the enthusiasm that has passed, and is continued by the current government, on this scale of the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in various international military missions, particularly in those military missions that are not directly led by the United Nations or the UN. As far as logistics is concerned, I'm going to quote some quotes from the report. Therefore, the approved financial means for maintenance and development of the logistics system ensure fundamental functioning and minimal development, an incorrect main engine on the rocket gunner... I mean Peter Kreshimer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfunctioning of the GM radar system due to lack of financial resources. The long-standing non-maintainment of the battle technique of the Land Army has reduced the regularity that has fallen below the level to ensure the smooth performance of the Croatian Land Army's tasks. The correctness of the tanks is 24% which will say approximately 17 to 18 of the correct 75 that should be in use. Armour - of 226 funds correct 49%. The question is, is this number of correct combat usable? The total disintegration of the non-combating fleet. A periodical review of the military personnel was conducted only for about 31% of the planned staff. But by the end of last year, 67 combat armored vehicles were delivered to Patria but without any equipment. We don't know if and how many of them are armed or whether they can even be used as combat vehicles. We hope that at least a few pieces can be used to date. Now we've got extras, PATRIA. Now we'd have to sell them to someone. Also a quote from the report. The provision of artillery was not initiated due to a lack of financial resources. Furthermore, no planned purchase of engineering machinery has been implemented due to a lack of financial resources. Furthermore, due to lack of financial resources, the acquisition of funds for individual NBK training has been delayed, so nuclear-biological-chemical training. Next, just read it. In 2011, no Croatian Navy equipment and modernisation project was implemented even though the acquisition of autonomous underwater vehicle and ship identification system was planned. Due to the lack of financial resources, it was not possible to contract the construction of coastal surrounding ships. The GEM radar system is near-end, and PEREGRINE is not operationally functional. Citations, multi-year under-investment in special tools and measuring equipment for the maintenance of aircraft and facilities have led the Croatian Air Force to a situation that is unable to implement prescribed maintenance rates on all types of aircraft, etc. There is no word in the report on the state of regularity or combat usability of aircraft and helicopters. I'm guessing the report originally had that data but I also assume that it was removed from this report by the ministry due to catastrophic indicators. And so there's no data on aircraft and helicopters, and the situation is according to sources that are available catastrophically. In the armed forces warehouses, 36 thousand 512 tonnes of murderous combat funds or UBS have been stored. Most of them scattered around inadequate warehouses all over our beautiful. Of these, 18 thousand 955 tonnes is unspective UBS, a deadly fighting asset, or surpluses. There is also 183 unspective T-55 tanks, 51 thousand 962 pieces of unspective footarms, 2 thousand 818 pieces of artillery weapons. Only God and General Zagorec know in part how many of these weapons were purchased in war years, at which they were priced and where all the margins for this great weapon ended. Today it's the same weapon as our cargo, and we'll still have to pay for its destruction. The Croatian Armed Forces System, to conclude after the Homeland War systematically and thoroughly disregarded. The scope of the Armed Forces and the budget for the Armed Forces have led to the limits of unsustainableness. Incapacitated, incompetent and completely unambitious personnel have been exchanged at ministerial, deputy ministers and defence ministers' assistants for the past 10 years. We support retaining the capabilities of the Armed Forces including flight, submarine and ship's capabilities, facilities and forces. Therefore, we also consider it necessary to enter combat aircraft squadrons immediately without further recycling or attempting to recycle existing MiGs 21. One quality and fair done offset program where if you will honestly without taking margins, with defending national interests a quality program would agree. We can surely sell a billion kunas of our trams, our ships, our locomotives and our industrial products for a billion kunas purchased. Such an investment could have a significantly more favourable multiplier effect on the Croatian economy than for some very strange energy investments announced. We believe that in the years that come also necessary, it will be necessary if we want to keep the Armed Forces and their combat capabilities in these generations and within this range, to increase the budget for the Armed Forces. We also believe that it is necessary to focus on the task of the Armed Forces, and to participate in peace operations, to approach this participation with more criticism and greater focus primarily on Croatian national and economic interests. We welcome the efforts made by Minister Kotromanovic in clearing up years of accumulated problems and his deputies, in fact the current group in the ministry, but we call on them to further, in fact, push harder to grow the MORH budget in the coming years because budget projections show for the next 2 years that there will be no shift as it is now. So we're going to report like this, which saddens us because it points to a sad situation in the Armed Forces, support and invite to repair the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9355	Thank you, Your Honor. The word has a respected representative Tomislav Ivić and a HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Deputy Minister. I welcome you all and express, of course, that my colleague Đurovic is also dissatisfied that Mr. Kotromanovic, the defence minister, is not present at this session today. The word for a very significant report that shows the current situation in the Armed Forces, and it would be good to hear about the minister as an indication of future action, and how is this condition of which we certainly cannot be satisfied, what is thought to be done, how is it meant to improve? But probably the Minister is celebrating today's name day, so he's gone, but we will, of course, discuss this report and give our opinion. And I will say that the HDZ Club will support this year's Defense System preparedness report. We believe that the report in technical terms is very correct, even in a substantive sense, it's okay. I think it's comprehensive, and most importantly it's real and it shows the real state of defense's readiness. The second question now is whether or not we are satisfied with the state of defense. There is no doubt that this economic crisis and recession, which directly affected the state of the defence system, was planning funds in the state budget at the beginning, and often also cut through budget rebalancing were insufficient to achieve all functions of the defence system. And yet I think that here we need to point out the worrying data, the deputy lady didn't repeat it even though she talked about it on the Defence Committee, it's data that talk about the current state, but more importantly they're ringing the alarms because this situation is unsustainable. It is unsustainable that the correctness of tanks is 24%, that the average age of non-colored vehicles is 21 years, so kill these are non-combat vehicles from Homeland, that of the 181 warehouse facility all 57 corresponds to the modern, ecological and security regulations of the European Union. In particular, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the prescribed periodic medical examination has passed only every 3 Croatian soldiers. It is also absolutely unacceptable that no project of equipment and modernisation of the Croatian Navy has been implemented. It was not accessible to contract and build coastal patrol ships, and the situation in Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence could be discussed and asked questions for quite some time. But the condition is what it is. Nevertheless, we are more interested in what the situation today is and what is going to happen tomorrow. And we expect an answer to that question, not only from the Minister of Defence but also from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As we discussed the national budget for 2012 we warned that the reduction of the budget by 230 million kuna when it comes to the MORH will have very negative consequences for the defence system, and even more painful is the fact that the 2013 budget projection provides for an additional 50 million kuna. And that the 2014 budget for the MRLs will be less than the 2011 budget. These are key questions. We see from this that unless appropriate steps are taken and measures are taken to further collapse this situation and in 2014 I fear we will have nothing to discuss when it comes to the readiness of the defence system of the Republic of Croatia. Does that mean we're giving up modernising the Armed Forces, we're giving up on coastal patrol ships, we're giving up on the squadron of fighter planes, whether the unplanned funds in the budget are going to happen, as I said further collapse of the defense system. These are key questions that I'm afraid we won't get an answer because the government and the ministry just don't. And that should be talked about more than this report. It is true that it is the starting point for the Kukuriku coalition coalition coalition coalition coalition. But what can be read from the budget, what can be read from the budget projections, I am afraid that this government has absolutely no vision when it comes to the further development of the Armed Forces and, of course, the issue of national security. Of course, we are very positive about the fact that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in 11 international operations under the leadership of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union with about 485 members which significantly contribute to strengthening the reputation and position of the Republic of Croatia and NATO, but also in the European Union and in the United Nations and confirms that the Republic of Croatia is a responsible member of the International Community, that it actively contributes to the establishment of peace in all parts of the world. Staff policy would also be strongly discussed in particular in light of the hint of further reduction of members of the Armed Forces and what is a key issue which is the fundamental criteria on which the reduction of the Armed Forces will be carried out whether it will be a political likeness or some other criteria certainly should be clearly and aloud said here today. It's final. As I said, we will support this Defense System preparedness report not because we are satisfied with the current situation. I don't think anyone in this High Croatian House can be satisfied with the state of the Armed Forces. But I said the report is what it is. It is realistic and shows the real situation in the Armed Forces, but what we are most interested in is an answer to the question of what will happen to the Armed Forces in the next three and a half years as it intends to compensate for the apparent lack of funds foreseen in the budget and in the budgetary projections for 2012, 2013 and 2014. That's the key question, and I'm saying as I said, I'm afraid we're not going to get an answer to that question today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9357	Thank you, too. The word has a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If I started my debate with a few questions, I'm not sure I'd even enter the area of military secrecy. For example, how many fighter planes can we blow up right now? How many helicopters are in flight mode? How many tanks are in train condition? How many ships have the Coast Guard in place? Or what I'm really particularly interested in is what condition those aluminum ships we bought from the Finns by intervening Patricia a few years ago, so instead of heating we should have taken out and put the air conditioning, because the ships were built for the North Cold Sea. Then we bought them, brought them to the Adriatic. Are those ships in their own condition, they're not? Are they in use or not and are we still going to buy from Patricia aluminum ships or are we going to build that in our shipyards? Five billion kunas in the budget set aside for the needs of the defence and the Armed Forces a lot, but relative to the needs a little. But there are three topics that are directly, independently decided by neither the minister nor the Ministry of Defence and are in the great jurisdiction and responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament, and they are shyly and shyly referred to as problems without conclusions or suggestions for changing the situation. Peace mission first. Of these five billion as the defence budget of 334 million kuna last year was the cost of peacekeeping missions and richer states than Croatia are increasingly selective, increasingly demanding when they sit at the table of either the United Nations, the European Union or NATO when deciding whether or not to participate in a particular peacekeeping mission. We boast of this as proving full membership in the United Nations, NATO, tomorrow and the European Union, and without talking, we accept every request put on the table for Croatia. Of course membership is binding. It should have been all understood when voting and deciding to join NATO and the EU and the UN. But I follow the behavior of other countries, so I have the opportunity to see that often they say no, the economic situation in our country is such that we cannot participate in this mission. Or participation comes down to a minimum, to reduce costs and also to protect human resources because they are sent there by the most capable, most prepared and most invested personnel. And that is why I ask all of us are we going to accept any obligation that has been made before Croatia so uncritically? Pakistan, India, the Western Sahara, Liberia, Cyprus, Sudan, Lebanon and the UN's Golan High-level missions in which we are taking part, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Libya, the NATO mission's Mediterranean. We have the horn of Africa, BiH and Kosovo as part of EU operations. I think the time has come and that Croatia has the right to behave like others in the self-service to say no, this time we will not. The second topic mentioned in the report without any indication, and due to the timely heated debate in this House about the Coast Guard status, whether within the Armed Forces or the police, it has exceeded that the Coast Guard is part of the military, which we have done so far that the Coast Guard has and that component, it is not only a military issue, but also a civilian being trained to control the country, to control smuggling, to control the unauthorized release of ballast waters. How many ships and what kind of shipyards do we need to build to have the right Coast Guard? And I hope that no one will tell me that this issue is no longer important after joining the EU. And thirdly, this about the Coast Guard I note that it decides because it is in the power of the Croatian Parliament. We decided it was part of the Croatian Army. And finally, Civil Protection. Of course it's part of the defense plan and good defense preparations is civil protection. Does Croatia have civil protection? Is there a Civil Protection Act in Croatia? As far as I know other than the city of Zagreb under civil protection, voluntary fire companies are usually involved. So then we are in a situation but that is because of the least needs in civil protection affairs with the engagement of the Croatian Army. Are we in the Croatian Parliament the ones who should open the question, debate and create and create a legislative framework to protect the issue of civil protection of the normative office, to arrange its funding so that the Armed Forces know what help they can have in the civil sector. I also mentioned this because if you have looked at the reports in the report that part of the problem is listed, short, shy, unclear but it is obvious that the composers of the reports have realized that the problem of civil protection must also be arranged. If we accept this report and this report must be taken over and the obligation to regulate the issue of civil protection legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9359	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 207(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 207 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 13.03 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now he has the word of the respected representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the Croatian Parliament HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Not a bit grateful task today to comment on the content of this report. But before I do so in the manner of some other colleagues, I will take the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity, so today I will make a happy name to the absent minister Anti Kotromanović and also be congratulated on the courage to accept this duty in the light of what was left for him. It was, on the way, incredible to listen to a colleague who made certain comments and political assessments on behalf of the HDZ Club, taking into account that a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces between 2006 and 2015 was adopted during their management of Croatian society and the state, and taking into account that the responsibility for the implementation of the obligations recorded in that document was precisely their own. The report itself is very similar, although on a slightly smaller number of pages than the previous years' reports. In fact, not only did I take the obligation to read this report but I read the 2010 and 2009 report. The long-term development plan of the Armed Forces as a basic document according to which the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces must be referred and can be said freely that, for the purposes of this Croatian Assembly of this Reverend House, it is composed very transparently, clearly, appropriately. However, when you think about the content of what it says in that report, then you get angry through the bones especially us, and there's us in this room more from different political options that we used to fit in times of war and wind for people and technique but primarily for people. This report is a testimony to total negligence and the incredible management of the resources of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, this report is a testimony to the incredible ignoring of the fundamental constitutional task of maintaining the Armed Forces in a willingness to respond to any kind of threat to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the constitutional obligation to ensure Croatian citizens from other types of threats. Namely, when you look at what was put in 2006 as a plan for the development and formation of the Armed Forces and you see the situation in 2011 then we have to comment on some figures. As far as the situation in the Land Army is concerned, 18 tanks of planned 75 are correct, enough for one reinforced tank company, not enough for two brigades of the Guard, one of which is armored. Artillery systems from the Homeland War to this day acquired zero, armored transporters purchased from Finland's "Patria" without combat systems. The current recent state is one part of the transporter equipped with 12 7 mm machines without more serious fighting systems, catastrophically. Also, the situation in the Navy. Missile cannon Dmitar Zvonimir plunged into the sea in 2001. What's missing this report, it's not written that it's deraketarized, that there's no more RBS 15 rocket system, we've had a chance to read about it in the paper. There is a question of any purpose, the battle component of the Croatian Navy at this time. The condition of the Croatian Air Force, counterpart Lesar asked how many fighter planes can be raised today. Someone's going to say four, and I'm going to take on behalf of the CNS and in my own personal right to say none because what we have today is trophy machines that are in all the more serious airlines standing only on stand-ups as monuments to some past few times. All their resources were spent after modernization. Today, we primarily send people, pilots and flyers to tasks in no way responsible, not estimating the value of every life of a Croatian citizen because even pilots, regardless of what they are paid, have certain rights. Once worded ladies and gentlemen, the battle components of the Croatian Army today are relic relic relics, and we have only and exclusively fit, we have people of which a part has passed through hard and lead times and passed on their knowledge to younger generations. What can please us in this report is in any case supporting the civil sector. On this occasion, I would like to thank the people of the flight squadron, the Croatian Air Force's fire squadron as a human, as a citizen of Dalmatia on behalf of my party, the HNS, but especially on behalf of all the Dalmatians. I thank the people who intervened in engineering units when drinking water was to be delivered to the citizens, when the ruins were to be cleared in the destroyed Vukovar and on a number of other tasks. We are left with ladies and gentlemen mostly men, high-quality Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, and this is the true state of the Armed Forces today. A special story is that a large part of the procurement of military equipment in the Republic of Croatia is quite controversial but I will not take what I do not have, and that is to judge anyone or call anyone. The fact is that neither today nor today's pelegrino radar system that was purchased, a contract signed back in '99. years, not put into full operational use, that dubious estimates of people from the profession of its value. The fact is that negligence, primarily policy neglect, has led to circumstances in which a permanently ruined military technique worth hundreds of millions of dollars and that I am now truly experiencing as a political provocation sentence we will see what this government will deal with in the next three years in the context of the Armed Forces. Probably by saving what's to be saved. The alibi that we are now a member of the NATO system that guarantees us a high level of security and non-vulnerability of our borders is partly true, however, it opens another story. The decision to join a NATO alliance should be based exclusively on the interest and the assessment that this has been notified to us. If our membership in NATO alliance is the consequence and the fact that we ourselves today are in question able to protect our sovereignty and that we are addicted to the NATO system then it is a very, very bad situation. Human resources were referred to, however, as shown in this and previous reports, according to the tasks set out in the Plan for the Long-term Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. It's about 15 thousand people in combat, active, and about 2,000 civilians. The average age of 39 years and I think it's six months, and that's the data to be accounted for. An alibi if such a devastating state of combat technique and material resources in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were the consequence of a purely small budget it might have been that we had not faced another situation in the Ministry of Defence in recent days, which is that at least according to the press in the Ministry of Defence, there were people who had double incomes at the same time. In view of the fact that there are also services in such systems in charge of verifications, the question is what have these components in the Ministry of Defence been doing all the time. The damages are done by neglecting and abandoning a valuable combat technique paid to Croatian taxpayers, these citizens, more or less pathetic, less or more sincerely concerned in this House, can be said in a very picturesque way. The value of one equipped rocket gun as it is today 5 in the Croatian Navy is the equivalent of a fully equipped regional hospital as it should be in the future. All five rocket cannons today when rocket systems that should have been equipped or equipped in question are not operated by power engines in certain cases are questionable. The value of each M-84 battle tank is the equivalent of one nursing home, one good elementary school or kindergarten. Someone seriously messed with the constitutional category, someone seriously messed with Croatian citizens' money, someone didn't do their job. This someone is highly positioned and behind whose name we do not know politically in recent years corresponds to HDZ with its coalition partners. And therefore, gentlemen, don't lecture us today in this House on competence and on how and what we do because the level of what you've been doing in the armed forces sector and in the defence ministry's portfolio is below any criticism. For what's happened at the Ministry of Armed Forces, someone should answer. It is not on me or on the HNS, but it is on the future minister, the current minister and the institutions of the rule of law to deal with certain issues. Since this is a zero report, indeed a zero report, Minister Anti-Cotromanovic, and since he shows those who want to see the truth about the defeating state in which you brought the Armed Forces to the HNS Club and I will personally support this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9361	Thank you, Your Honor. But on your exhibit, we have a report of three corrections to an incorrect quote. Let's get this straight. The first is Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I will say that this report, i.e. this debate of my colleague Baranovic, was very correct for us. But it is incorrect when you place the thesis that political provocation is what this government will deal with for the next three years. You have shown your real concern for the state of technical equipment of the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Defence, but I am asking you now how do you think that this poor situation, apparently, will improve when in the budget for this year you have reduced your equipment and modernization compared to last year's funding for 38 million kuna and 125 thousand, and in 2013 you projected to reduce those modernisation funds by another 155 million kuna? So I'm really asking the question how do you think then, you realize that's bad and that's bad, but you're reducing funds in the next two years in that position by almost 200 million kuna, amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9363	Your Honor, I'd like you to remain in charge of correcting the incorrect allegations, and we'll ask you a question for the second time. Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the incorrect quote of counterpart Baranovic is that some officers received double salary at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia as you found out from the newspaper reading. I will explain to you, both to you and to all those who have performed this as an affair, that there is a way to translate certain solutions to the remaining work capacity and pay gaps from the Guard salary to the one they received as with the remaining workability. And this is the legal institute that they had, which according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers Article 154 and defined. So we should stick to those things that are clearly legally defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9365	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Petar Baranovic. You're giving up? Thank you very much. And there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, counterpart Baranovic wouldn't be Baranovic if he didn't look back on what HDZ was doing in the past. I disagree with your findings and the statement that everything is bad in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased that Croatian companies are producing a Croatian machine gun, a Croatian assault rifle, a Croatian helmet, a Croatian uniform, a Croatian tank T-84 DEGMAN, a combat armored vehicle to PATRIA, but Croatian shipyards should also operate Croatian ships, Croatian patrol boats, etc., and the only thing I agree with you is protecting the airspace of the Republic of Croatia – repairing the situation when it comes to Croatian Air Force with a final determination that will protect the Croatian airspace, and perhaps some other neighbouring states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9367	Thank you, Your Honor. The word has the Deputy Minister of Defence of the Honorable Vishny Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank everyone for the constructive debate and everything you've given us about this report, and I'm going to try to take some kind of a turn to just some of the facts that you've brought out. I have already indicated what the minister is doing with his team this year, and what goes towards improving the situation that was last year 2011 and all those who were on the Parliamentary Defence Committee could hear it, and I will now try to repeat it briefly. As far as the peregrine radar system is concerned, the truth is that it is not in full use, but we have already launched an action to agree with the Ministry of the Sea, Maritime Affairs and Liaison on how to co-finance to put it into operational use, and we need 5m euros to do so. As far as non-combat vehicles are concerned from the report, it is evident that their age is 21 years and that so cannot stay and these days a tender is being opened or a tender in the media will be launched you could read that the Ministry of Defence has singled out 12 million kunas for that purpose. It's not as the media said that the Department of Defence only supplies to private cars, but it's also about vehicles needed for armed forces such as buses, trucks, service vehicles and the rest. As far as coastal ships are concerned, I can tell you from the Report, and you've had the opportunity to see what makes today's coast guard, it's 9 ships, 4 patrol ships, 1 rescue ship, school boat "Andrija Mohorovici", water supply ship, 2 port trailers, 4 M8 helicopters and 2 BC9 aircraft. It's true, and I'm extremely sorry that last year when we had a chance to find a solution to the financing of four coastal ships that opportunity wasn't used for one, I'm going to say there's a political missed gaff. By the end of this year, however, the defence ministry will surely call a tender for 2 coastal patrol ships. We will try to find money outside the defence budget we have for this year because unfortunately, as you have seen yourself, these funds are not foreseen. Well, the Shipyard Institute did a technical study on it, so we know what we want from coastal patrol ships, from their technical requirements, and I really believe that by the end of the year we're going to call these competitions. As far as the "Faust Vrančić" ship is concerned, we have also launched an initiative that the "Faust Vrančić" ship has no ability with the Ministry of Environmental Protection in such a way that "Faust Vrancic" becomes the first ship to get its ability, means to combat the pollution of the sea because we truly believe that the Adriatic Sea is one of our greatest treasures. Speaking of tanks, we all noticed that the correctness of tanks is what it is, but here I have some good news for the Croatian Parliament today, I talked to the Chief of Staff three days ago and the hint is, we have obtained parts and will be trained absolutely 55 tanks. As far as the UBS warehouse is concerned, you've seen the condition, it's really not good. However, we have also reported a project through a public private partnership launched by the Ministry of Economy for the construction of a new 20 UBS warehouse to transfer explosives from current non-conditional warehouses. Someone here in the debate mentioned that the structure of the Armed Forces is too deep for us. We are aware of this and it is true and these very days the Chief of Staff has sent a proposal to the Minister of Defence to change the structure of the Armed Forces and this proposal will be addressed to the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander for adoption. The observation that such a deep structure was because they wanted to have high rank in the Armed Forces might have been correct for some time. But I'm just going to point out to you the fact that last year seven generals came out of the Armed Forces system, and this year 8 generals will be out of the Armed Forces system. So the total number of generals will be reduced by 15. This year's budget is unfortunately 4 828 051 and it is 1.38%, so it decreased compared to last year's report, and that certainly makes us difficult. However, when you talk about United Nations operations, I must tell you that only 119 members participate in United Nations operations. And out of those 119 members, the most of them are in the Golan highlands somewhere around 95. As for Afghanistan, this Croatian Parliament will have the opportunity, I hope in less than a month to decide how many soldiers will remain in Afghanistan until 2014 when the Allies announced their withdrawal. What we're going to suggest will certainly be a number that will be smaller than the one that's so far, but I also have to tell you that our people in Afghanistan are doing more demanding jobs, more demanding military jobs related to mentoring and training. Thus, they were not exposed to risks as most of the members in direct combat activities. Mr. Lesar, I will remain in debt, Mr. Caine here is not asked about the Pula arena. The army is leaving Pula, negotiations on our departure are under way these days. We leave almost everything, we leave only one small part, and as far as the muse and hydro bases are concerned, our information that they have entered the Brijuni Riviera project and we remain only in one small piece called Vargarola. Mr. Lesar asked me about the aluminum ships of Helsinki, I must admit I'm surprised. I was on Helsinki driving along the Adriatic coast and Helsinki was literally a boat which is for, you'll allow me to still be a graduate lawyer and I won't dare speak about it on behalf of the sailors which he is, however, the man who introduced him into use in the Navy, the Croatian Navy is currently commander of the Coast Guard Mr. Stosic. And in his beliefs it is something Croatia has and with which sailors can sail, they can train on it and something that Croatia unfortunately should have something better, but unfortunately we do not have. As far as the UN is concerned, I haven't told you yet, and I need to tell you. I think some forget that Croatia has also asked for UN assistance. Therefore, the objection that Croatia with 119 soldiers participates in the UN of that 90 at the Golan High. I was at the Golan High School with the President of the Republic visiting our soldiers, believe this area is absolutely safe because they are located on the border of separation and only performing peacekeeping tasks, indeed without the use of weapons. And Mr. Lesar also mentioned civil protection, so I have to tell him that civil protection has long since come out of the defense system, that this Croatian Parliament has passed the Protection and Rescue Act, and that there is also a State Protection and Rescue Authority within which civil protection lies. And that's definitely got nothing to do with the defense system anymore. The military only performs when the State Protection and Rescue Authority informs us that it is unable to resist any natural disaster, disaster or anything with its resources. Only at the invitation of the defence minister under the Defense Act is the order for the use of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the debate on civil protection is whether it is now good, whether there are enough people qualified to be referred to another institution. We'll keep what we think about it to ourselves, but definitely that question should go to someone else. If the purchase of military equipment has been transparent in recent years my answer is not, I don't think it is. And we're all witnessing it if it weren't for the fact that I don't think any of the procedures in this country would be conducted. If the Minister of Defence had decided to make it transparent, I will tell you only one fact that in the new formation of the Ministry of Defence, the Minister has singled out below, so that he has positioned it directly under himself from this year on with the head of the sector so that we can literally monitor everything that happens in the purchase and that the purchase as such would be absolutely transparent. The audit that was in this Ministry of Defence for the past year has even praised the move as something to achieve greater transparency. If there's anything else you've mentioned here I've forgotten I really thank you for supporting this report. As far as personnel policy issues are concerned, that's the part I've remained in debt. Whether the criteria for the separation of active military personnel will be based on the fact that this is a political likeness I cannot really accept because I must tell you that in 2003, the Ministry of Defence passed rules called the rules on professional development of officers, officers and soldiers. They have been developed over time, and there are clearly criteria in which a person meets the conditions to declare himself, meaning inoperable to the Armed Forces and under what conditions comes out of the Armed Forces. The rules are truly respected, according to a ranking list of individuals They meet the conditions and I think it's a real observation that any political departure doesn't stand. [[Intruder Leko: Time respected Deputy Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9369	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Two amendments to the incorrect quote have been reported to your presentation. The first is the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Deputy Minister, it's an incorrect assumption that because of the 21-year-old vehicles, you've secured 12 million kunas for the purchase of new vehicles. It's true that you've secured the Leasing, but you didn't have the person with whom to conduct the tendering form for that Leasing, so you brought back the one who's already gone. And it is incorrect that human policy is implemented according to the old rules when the Defence Minister, Mr Kotromanović, adopted on 17 April 2012 a new Regulation amending the Regulation on the establishment of health skills for military service and under that Regulation wants to achieve a cleanup of those who are not alike.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9371	Thank you very much. The next correction is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9372	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the state of defense is difficult. The state of defence is not in the Ministry of Defence, but the state of defence of the Republic of Croatia is disastrous. But I want to point out here and I'd say one illogical thing. We are discussing the state of defence of the Republic of Croatia this publicly in front of the cameras. We're probably looking at possible enemies. I don't think one of these sessions should be public, no matter what the push for transparency. Because already in the east, there is a new Chetnik duke or an old Chetnik duke, and they want that line again and the border of Karlobag, Karlovac, Virovitica. I only have one question because I haven't been able to get back to you about the military polygon. Here, military polygon Gashinci near Djakova, home of HV in Djakova, etc. etc. [[/Intruder Leko: You have straightened out an incorrect quote and please remain on it. Hold on to that. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9373	Thank you very much. We'll stop working now. We will continue at 15.00 hours with an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes, and the first one for discussion is reported to be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajduković. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9374	My colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing to discuss the Annual Defence System's preparedness report. Individual debate by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9375	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here are some words for me to see our defense system or state in our armed forces. As colleagues and colleagues have noticed before me, we cannot be satisfied with this condition, or we must judge it as bad. Some colleagues even talked about how bad it is to discuss the situation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia so publicly, I don't think they're on track for the right and the right opinion. I believe it is good to discuss this problem publicly, because this is a problem which is of great interest to the Republic of Croatia but also to the public of the Republic of Croatia. What one colleague noticed was that this is how we expose the Republic of Croatia to some of the dead, or that our possible enemies, as it was expressed, listen to this debate, so I think they know it without this report, and tactics, strategies, military schedules, etc. It's, of course, something we won't discuss in public like this. But to get back on the subject, so unfortunately the situation is bad, very bad. And as the report states, our tactics apply therefore to defensive tactics refer to deterrent tactics. So, by our military force, we can deter possible aggression on Croatian territory. This contributes, of course, to our NATO membership as well as to our participation in EU peacekeeping missions... etc. However, because of such an extremely poor infrastructure situation in the defence forces, I actually doubt that we can turn someone away by our own strengths. We can possibly as a NATO member, but with the very readiness of our defence infrastructure difficult. So some data that I've experienced as a cattle has been presented, so it's shocking that with just 24% of the tanks within the Armed Forces in operational condition. Therefore, the report states that they remained incorrect. How they're broken it's less important, so if I can drive rather than shoot or just shoot and not drive it anyway. So the fact is that we only have 24% of our armored forces that are in good shape, so we've given up the remonting of some vessels, of the 6 remonts, we've given up. Also a question of the regularity of our defence infrastructure and military equipment. Because as we read from the report, it's questionable how many of our military warehouses, facilities, etc. are. in operational condition. This is also very bad because Croatia is still in an unstable environment. So I would consider our region unstable, so a region where the political situation hasn't settled enough to be able to talk about a stable environment, and if we could perhaps look at such a bad situation with a little more ease in our Armed Forces. I also think the importance of the Armed Forces is that I don't have to stress not so long ago we've come out of the Homeland War that everyone has felt more or less on their skin. Here's a colleague from the HNS who was just talking about it. So I think this report definitely faces us with a devastating situation in our armed forces. The question also arises, which has already been raised by a colleague from the HNS, who is responsible for this situation or why we are in this situation as we are today? It is clear that Croatian investment in the military, in defence forces, in military infrastructure was much higher by '95. the year until Operation Storm, so until peaceful reintegration, or until the end of the Homeland War. It is a devastating fact, however, that not only did more serious investments go beyond what we already have. I would agree with some HDZ colleagues who say it is commendable and good for Croatia to have a part of the military industry, so Djuro Djakovic to produce Croatian machine guns, guns, etc. But the situation is such that the question of how much our Armed Forces will benefit, or how much we are actually able to give our Armed Forces access to this top-notch really top-of-the-line technology. So we are facing a situation of systematic non-investment in defence forces, a systematic failure to invest in defence infrastructure, which is extremely bad. What I can commend is investing in the chamber. So the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, by being a member of the EU and being a member of NATO, should also work specifically on the education of our staff, so that we have officers who are trained to work and in such difficult conditions but who are able to shed light on the face of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions in which they participate. And here you will allow me if, on your own behalf, that the former involvement of the Croatian Army in peacekeeping missions is considered successful. However, this bitter taste remains so that despite our having top-level staff, unfortunately, we cannot provide them with equipment in line with their educations and knowledge that we could use through the problems of the Homeland War. So to conclude the situation is bad. The situation is bad and it's caused by the neglect of the Armed Forces. Of course, the budget and the Armed Forces cannot be increased or could not be more significant because we are also facing an economic crisis. The economic crisis is not since yesterday but it is not since 20 years ago, so the economic crisis has been going there since 2008 perhaps a little earlier but in 2008 it is beginning to feel significant in the Republic of Croatia as well. So the crisis is really going to reduce possible further investment in the Armed Forces, but I believe that both the minister and the deputy minister together with their team will work to at least preserve and in an operational sense keep the facilities and equipment we now have at our disposal. And finally allow me here because this is my first debate on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to thank all members of the Armed Forces. As a colleague noted before, therefore, the Air Force that participates in the prevention and elimination of fires in Dalmatia, as well as all members of the Armed Forces who often cooperate with the civilian authorities during natural disasters, while cleaning snow, etc. and this is proof that the Armed Forces must not only be a military force but can therefore also be made available to civil society or society in general and that they can carry out useful tasks in the peacetime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9376	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy Minister. Well, here's what all my predecessors have already said. The situation in the Armed Forces is not bad but Malta is not catastrophic, but in all this it is good that this report is realistic and according to this report as far as I see the tasks for last year have been completed. So we can say that in such a catastrophic state, the Croatian Army is somehow dealing with it. However, what is worrying about in this time of recession or economic problems is the budget, or the resources that are foreseen in the next period that have a trend of reduction, which says that this is the consequence of the economic crisis and that we must make moves that will, to the greatest extent possible, enable the depreciation of this situation and what we, once in the military, call the day-to-day functioning of the Armed Forces. The training of a peacekeeping mission, the development of a material or the development of a professional staff, are all segments that require funds and are all part of the defence system or the armed forces that must function. I would, on this occasion, touch what we all speak highly of, and I will say so, and these are the peace missions that the Republic of Croatia is based on signed international agreements of participants through the EU, i.e. NATO and the UN, and where we have therefore become an inevitable factor in ensuring peace, human rights throughout the world and where our army is, therefore, recognized by our Armed Forces as I dare say a respectable military force, of course in its proportions, in proportion to its size and strength. However, I am not sure that this scope of our participation in peacekeeping missions has not become too much of a bite for the Armed Forces, so I dare say for the economic moment in which Croatia lives. It is definitely that we, on our return to our contingents, are getting trained, highly trained soldiers who, of course, practice this ability further through the needs of the Croatian military, but I think that, speaking of the economic moment, that we might consider some kind of right measure so I will call it, therefore, a real measure in the sense of sending our missions wherever in the world to enable that other part of the Armed Forces to function on a day-to-day basis. It is definitely not good to find out that much of the technical resource, especially in the Croatian Land Army, is not working, that is, as the report says is not in a state of correctness. However, when he says that he is not at the level that enables everyday functioning, then it becomes alarming. I wonder, regardless of what we have become part of the NATO system, we still live in a thorny region, so in terms of security, especially after the statements of newly established representatives of the governments of the countries with which we live in the neighborhood and with whom we have had unpleasant encounters, conflicts in the near past, I think that we must and that our primary tasks are what is, meaning the protection of territorial integrity and citizens, it must still be our first and only task in terms of the Armed Forces, so that day-to-day functioning. And I'm saying, no matter how long we're part of NATO 22 years ago, when I remember someone asking me if there was going to be a war, I would absolutely... in the sense that it's not possible. [[You don't understand.]] However, I was soon denied in the harshest possible way by my family being killed, as unfortunately many, and by being left without all regrets as many in this Assembly. So primarily protection of territorial integrity, protection of Croatian citizens must be a focus of what the Croatian Army, so the Armed Forces must do. And I would disagree with young colleague Hajdukovic when he says that the Croatian Army should be a literal service to all society. Yes, then when there are disasters, when necessary, when it comes to human life, but I think it is the cleaning of snow with shovels in the hands of Split or any other street that it is a humiliation for Croatian soldiers, Croatian military and even for the Croatian state at all. I don't think it has anything to do with the Croatian Army or her intention. We have as far as I can tell from the report of the problem of keeping specific personnel in the military, especially medical personnel. Short and simple, they have not been provided with both the technical and the conditions for progress and it is clear that people feel insecure and thus avoid work, or the Croatian Army. And on the other hand, we have the interest of young people in serving a military deadline which is part of the consequence of the economic situation, but I think, most of all, that's the consequence of everything we've had in the near past, so that's the national charge, and that's very positive, well, it needs to be potential, and it needs to be invested, and it has to be a pool from which we will select the right and capable people who will be the future of our armed forces. And that's why I have to say, as an ex-officer, that I'm glad to be at the head of the army, or the defence system of two volunteers of the Homeland War, and I expect them to think that all of this that I've just talked about will be based on those values, not on the Second World War, but on what came out of the Homeland War, and that this whole country, too, will rightly succeed in bringing this system into a situation, regardless of the economic woes, to be what it's meant to be. So small, respectable, solid armed forces that will be able to respond to any threat at any moment, and the threat isn't just external aggression. It's a threat to any kind of terrorism of any kind here or anywhere in our neighborhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9378	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. A representative of counterpart Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Well, fellow Milas, here I agree with you in most of what you've brought out. So definitely the role of the defence forces is to safeguard the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, but I think you may have misunderstood this one of mine which I have said what I think about the Armed Forces as a service of citizens, or a service of society. So I don't just think that the military has an important role in the wartime, but also in the peacetime, and I didn't refer specifically to the Split coast, but when it's really an accident. Here I come from Slavonia, there can often be so that the competent services simply cannot respond to so much snow then the Croatian Army is engaged there. I think it's commendable first. Therefore, that the Croatian Army is available to its citizens and when other threats are involved, so floods, snow and other natural disasters and disasters that may follow. And I also agree with you that the situation in the Armed Forces is bad. As I said in my debate, so by tactics, so by deterrence tactics in the current state of our army, we can hardly turn anyone away from possible aggression. And you've noticed there, and terrorism is a form of war in today's modern times, but today open war is very rare, but the fact that we're a NATO member is in my opinion enough to deter most of the open aggressions, although that doesn't justify this situation. And I believe that the ministry, or government, will respond to this challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9380	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Hajdukovic, of course I agree with what you said. I said to be a service to the public, of course, I agree with that, but it needs to be precisely determined when, which is why and at what time. So, I was exactly positioning myself when I said, it is unacceptable for me to have a Croatian soldier take a shovel in his hands and go to the Split waterfront or not know where to clean snow. It's a humiliation to me, I speak as a soldier, as an officer – I don't think there's any such thing in the world. And what you said, I come from Vukovar, and I can imagine what problems people can have. There are ways to do this, and there is a mechanism or I don't know if it's supposed to be hands, legs, teeth digging, but then when it's at that time, and not because of winning populist points, I don't know or anything else. And what you said we weren't ready, so I'll be back here 20 years and a few years ago, I come from Vukovar, I was born there, and I've had a war in the worst form possible. Well, we were as ready as we were. And today when we still have all this stuff that we're talking about, what we need to improve, of course, and what we need to bring to the level that it might be, but I hope it will be and then we have nothing to talk about that we're not ready for. We must always be ready. It's the only thing that can keep us, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9382	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. Here we would prefer to see this minister of our fellow defender who is at the head of the ministry when it comes to the State of Defence Report and the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as the defence preparations. Namely, the report we received in the Croatian Parliament as well as the entire Croatian public shows and outlines the activities carried out in that segment during 2011, and it is visible how the defence system carried out the tasks assigned to it, the abilities he developed, the problems he encountered, how he held the funds and how he fulfilled his social role. We can tell one that we're satisfied, the other that we're not satisfied. As many funds as we have made possible through the state budget, through our economy, through GDP, through crisis and recession, through all those disasters that have been followed by Croatian society, we can say everything in all things we have Armed Forces that have been praised throughout the world, which in all missions have received only positive reviews and are said to be truly individuals at the level that every country or every ally wishes to have with them in any mission. We can say that the situation in technical, technological and material resources except for the human resources that is quite disrupted, that they do not have all the necessary elements we have, but let us also remember those days when we are predicting defence budgets many times fellows from the SDP, the HNS and others in those segments reduced and asked for further budget cuts and for funds to be even smaller. In that segment, in the security segment and in the segment of what is called the MUP and the security system there have always been written amendments to reduce funds there. Today, when we see how it is not predicted in this year or a regular service that involves changing filters and oils on non-combatable personal vehicles, it's scary. This will only be heard in the next report next year on how much the budget is now reduced and how the Croatian Army is now supported. I would like to stress that... the context and environment in which Croatia as a republic is certainly unable to say that it has some conventional threat directed against us and taking into account NATO membership that has a strong, effective deterrence on the long-term period and a very low possibility of any incident in these areas. However, the events that have been happening lately in the neighborhood could not say that it is quite 100% certain that the past and aggressions of Croatia are re-emerged, that they identify Vukovar as the Serbian city, that they ignore Srebrenica in which genocide was committed. It can be said that the human factor that has experienced the support of the Serb people in the neighbourhood can certainly be as one of the threats and that it can further cause the readiness of our armed forces to be at the highest level. Therefore, the forecasting of budget resources in the future must be one that will allow this part of the force we use, which we have, these 16 thousand and some soldiers, officers and officers to be functional with all the technical equipment that is needed. I would like to stress that the position and characteristics of the Republic of Croatia today where the level of social development is likely and the occurrence of incidents caused by human activity, as I have already pointed out, as it says in this report, and the consequences can be adversely affecting national security or even the catastrophic consequences of the population and infrastructure. If those initial announcements by the neighbouring president were to continue to be so and if he were to put his paw on his head again, then that could be true. I would like to say that the consequences of the economic crisis are one of the biggest challenges of the development of the defence system in which the rationalisation, savings, restructuring and human resources and, in any case, there have been certain things that have certainly not been able to enable the equipment, modernisation and reception of new staff and the training needed for the further development and standards prescribed by NATO that we have contractually and taken over. I believe that in the future we will find opportunities, as well as the economic environment and this crisis that should finally be put on hold once and for Croatia to move economically to ensure the resources necessary to equip the Croatian defence forces for all that is needed in their development and is continued by filling the staff and units of command and in the smaller scope and their equipment. The production of base, combat armored vehicles, pedestrians, home and handgun equipment has been continued, and in small size and other equipment according to the possibilities. Due to insufficient budgetary resources, equipment and modernisation projects are being slowed down. Dynamics that lead to congestion and delay in the development of planned abilities. Armed Forces have provided great support to civilian institutions, but as my colleague Milos says, it must be only in those threats that are like elemental disasters, floods, earthquakes or the necessity of removing from any other threat that are such species, not the cleaning of snow that is the communal activity of certain city companies. This should not be a priority and I can therefore say that further integration into the NATO system and the harmonisation of national defence planning with innovations in the Allied Defence Planning process. It must continue to be a priority that we have taken on in which we want to participate, which praises us as brave, honorable and trained soldiers, officers, officers as well as the state that has given maximum effort and returned everything that has been borrowed from it in aggression on the very Republic of Croatia. So today, we may have too many numbers in view of other countries, but there can be thought of rationalising, but I also hope that external assistance in equipping our defence forces will also be the one that will contribute that we can continue to send them the same contingents into missions, as well as in tasks that are in common with NATO forces. This only slowed down the process of equipping up-to-date activities, projects in different areas, rationalisation of business has kept the level of operational capabilities and the implementation of the task of the Armed Forces. Furthermore, training is carried out through units at the level of basic military training, specialist training and training for international military operations. And I think the biggest part is aimed at those who are scheduled or who are going through certain activities to participate in international military operations, which surely requires much more effort, much more investment and much more resources. Through this we can see the Report that additional training has been carried out through 49 courses of technical, intensical, traffic, medical services that completed 722 students or students. We see that, of the total planned 22 exercises in 17 international exercises took part and were carried out on the territory of the Republic of Croatia while the others were abroad. The main training event in the Armed Forces was the battle exercise Strike 11 where the evaluation of declared troops was successfully conducted. The deployment of the system of preparedness is carried out most intensively in units declared for peace operations. The state of the logistics system, we have heard from all my colleagues, what it is and what I would not like to repeat and hope that we will also restore the air force, that we will find opportunities for funds as well as non-combat vehicles, and equip those war vehicles with weapons intended for them in the coming period, so that they can be equipped and ready to carry out their tasks. I hope that there will no longer be a possibility that no person who would conduct the competitions or that person who has already made the solution will be able to go in, leave the system to return to the contract of action in order to obtain the one needed for the ministry. Since we are aware that there are already agencies, there are already complete forms of competition and procurement for the euro. So I don't think there's any excuse for what's been through the paper that's stretched one man back into the system, and he's got the possibility of using an severance of 300 thousand kuna. This is inappropriate, and in human resources policy, we can say that those who are being prepared and who are called to receive two salaries, I will read one solution: "due to the disability resulting from the reduction in their ability to work, the right to pay is recognised because of the reduction in wages at the second job in terms of the difference between the amount and that, from the advance of the wages they make on that one". This is the whole thing, and I ask all those who present to the Croatian public through the media to clearly put all those legal provisions in their statements unequivocally. To make it clear that they are no sleaze from the officers, that they are not taking something from the pockets of Croatian citizens, but that they are those who have become disabled during the Homeland War. Put on other jobs lower-paid and the pay difference won through it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9384	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9385	So I ask you nicely, in the future, to be representatives of the ministry, as well as everyone else, to use the real data that you should have. Just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9386	It's time for my colleague Djakic. It's already 1:30. Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. MP Domagoj Hajdukovic first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Djakic. Here is listening to the discussion of you and your colleagues, Milas, and I am glad that we have a consensus about the Armed Forces and that we are certainly in the best interest of all as citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have strong Armed Forces. However, I would not agree with some of your allegations, which is, okay, maybe my colleagues from the SDP and the HNS in the last meeting wanted to cut in some parts of the budget as regards the Armed Forces and the Security Forces, but you were then a position, you were then able to bring the budget as you wanted, you were bringing it in and we see the results now in the 2011 report. Because Minister Kotromanovic, therefore, cannot have taken over the portfolio until late December, so the year we are discussing today is primarily the responsibility of your former minister. So what the government is doing now is just saving what's being saved, to keep as much equipment as possible. And, of course, it's better now than it was in 1991 when many of our defenders were literally naked or with hunting weapons went against one of the largest military forces in Europe at the time, but quite taught by this bitter experience, we should have invested more in our defense, or at least keep military infrastructure operational. And therefore thank God for our Croatian defenders who have managed to defend our Croatia with their commitment and courage, once and with mad courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9388	Thank you. I have a reply to the replica, representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9389	Thank you very much. Well, here's a dear colleague I must have said in good, good intentions and spirit because that's what the amendments were, we can take them out and see them. And this budget that you've brought in is also reduced to exactly what's important with the Armed Forces and the possibilities, I'm worried. Since there will be insufficient resources and opportunities for the equipment to be maintained, it will be possible to get a new one, since only one man in six suits can be the one who will make the purchase that must be returned to the system to the contract. And I'm worried about how human beings will continue to get rid of those who became disabled in the Homeland War, not by their own guilt, but by their desire to love, to defend their country with courage, so that they didn't receive all the things that were put on their minds, but called out in public so that thirty, forty, would depend on how many there are who are the high officers who have invested in themselves in those efforts that have been trained, who have learned the language, who have done everything so that they can continue to function. Today they are on a pillar of shame, today they are called, today they are implicated that they are the ones who took something from Croatian citizens and Croatian Armed Forces. There is no consideration of how to care for a thousand 600 civilians, persons in service or those who are officials and deputies who have the status of Croatian defenders and are still in the Croatian army. They were also at war, after the war were declared officers and tenants, and no one has a solution for them. I point out that through this debate on today's report we also give one initiative to resolve them, given that... state officials and tenants are clearly showing that this would be the best solution, so these amendments and amendments to the laws allow them to take care of them or the systems if they are no longer needed but as Croatian defenders to use the Law on Defence and Defence provide the best opportunity for them to die as active military persons and to be... for their participation in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9390	Thank you. We have another replica. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9391	Thank you. You are representative Djakic and Milos reminded me of something, so I wanted to look back on it. When it comes to the Croatian Air Force and the acquisition of the squadron of aircraft to the past, our present and future, given that politics should also think a little bit about the future. At this point and about the time coming the only country created from the area of the former Yugoslavia as a state is very stable and has the quality squadrons of hunting aviation is Serbia. And now I've come to think of a picture that maybe 20 years from now when I'm gonna have some little grandchild and we're all gonna be in NATO countries, and when a fighter plane flies over our heads and we look at it, it's gonna have gambling. It will be an aircraft of the Republic of Serbia that will guard the airspace of the entire area of the former Yugoslavia of all emerging states and perhaps the Republic of Serbia. So it's one very handsome or possible scenario in 10 or 20 years if we're not seriously focused on keeping our air force, because we're all going to be in NATO. Most small countries already today, Slovenia has given up. Macedonia will give up, Montenegro and BiH will not have their air force unless Croatia has its wartime preserved who will be guarding the RS airspace for 10, 15 or 20 years, but Serbia itself. I think it would be sad for this time that for us and for Croatia's future something like this will happen to us. I think politics should think sometimes and a little longer than an election cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9392	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9393	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague of mine you've reminded me well and replicated to me that the air force could disappear in the Republic of Croatia and that in the future, the Serbian Air Force could protect our space. It is both ironic and ridiculous, and I believe it is impossible, that Croatia has enough strength, will and ways to implement itself and its system in NATO. I believe that one of the countries in Croatia will be found to enable the acquisition of a new squadron and to fill in that system that is for the protection of airspace that we will not have to rent any other NATO component in order to protect our airspace. I believe that either Gripen or someone else, third, fifth, will not be potential but I believe that the eastern MIG system that we have so far probably will no longer be operational since we all strive to make all parts of the system more compatible with NATO standards and NATO products, I believe that so too this air system will be incompatible with this so that in the future I do not know that Serbia when it will become a NATO member, will it become at all, will they have the opportunity to enter European integration in view of all the new political events that have taken place in Serbia what their aspirations and implications are. And I believe that the Ministry of Defence is concerned that as a member of NATO as a country that provides exceptional strength in peacekeeping missions and tasks, it is already largely agreed and negotiated with allies what standards we should have and what we must meet, and by the laws we have passed and signed to keep our airspace safe from our forces, so that our pilots are trained here and that we certainly have always... the air forces that would help in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9394	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Representative Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9395	Thank you very much, Vice President. Reputed deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Unlike my predecessors, participants in the debate who mainly spoke about the shortcomings shown in this report, I will try to talk about what is good or at least on a good path and it is about human rights policy in the Armed Forces or what is the status of women in the Croatian Army. For example, the Croatian officer took over the women's training command in Afghanistan. T.S. the deputy and member of the Military Police since March of this year is located in Kabul, the ISAF Mission. Young M.D. For 28 years, one of the women in the Croatian Army who must have had an impressive military career, and a few weeks ago she came back from the most important mission in her life, spent the past six months on an international mission, came home with a huge experience. She spent half a year in the dust of Afghanistan commanding her thunderstorms. Therefore, the Croatian military system does not distinguish women and men's jobs, tasks or duties. The numbered state of the Armed Forces on 31 December 2011 was 18 thousand 20 people out of 2 thousand 274 women and 15 thousand 746 men, which means that in the Armed Forces there are 12.61% of women in the total number of employees, and in the Department of Defence that is 52.56, so more than half, but consider that the administrative department according to the number of employees should account for only 10 percent of the total number of employees. The average age is 39.26 years old, but women are almost four years old on average. In the leadership and command duties of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, women are represented by 7.6% and 12.1% of women are senior officers. Is that enough, is that equal enough, are women sufficiently represented in the hierarchical scale? In 2011, no women, 56 women or 14.6%, were promoted to the rank of general, only 6.9% or 10.34% in the Croatian Army. For comparison, we can take NATO where the average is about 7% and see where we are. Promoting gender equality, the Ministry of Defence participated in the work of the Interresor Working Group on the creation of a National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on the position of women, peace and security. The National Action Plan was adopted in July 2011, fostering the strengthening of women's positions and their participation in areas related to peace and security. To recap, the total share of women in senior officers is about 10%. Croatia does not have a single female with the rank of generals, it is still an insufficient share of officers and especially officers, but at the same time the participation of women in the total number of members from year to year is improving. The percentage of women compared to the total number of employees is constantly increasing, resulting in the increasing interest of women in the military service. In the last few years, an increasing number of women have been appearing in a tender for entry into the service so that the structure of employees is improved in favour of women. The Department of Defence of the Staff Board established a Committee on Gender Equality with the task of achieving equal treatment and status, as well as enabling equal access and opportunities for members of both sexes. During 2011, the Committee did not receive any complaints about sexual discrimination. The key challenges and developments in the next period require the establishment of a target structure and the numerical size of members, or members of the Armed Forces in line with the new structure, i.e. a reduction in the number of employees or employees in the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces and Commands, let us not hope for the burden of women. Defence is a professional profession and an extremely dynamic area. The defense presents a constant challenge, the defense presents a challenge for women. It is absolutely certain that women in the Croatian Army will not face discrimination and humiliation. This is a new modern army, built on modern principles. Women are here at almost all levels, in almost all military affairs, and when I say almost everyone I remind you that Croatia expects its first general and soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9396	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9397	I didn't think about gender equality, but the distinguished colleague is obviously, I really believe we'll get the female person of the Croatian general very soon, but we can't do it here from the constituency booth to claim that we're going to get it very soon. Obviously, then, a political appointment is being prepared. (Laughter) But it would be sad to see someone become an officer, a general only because we don't have a wife in the Croatian Army, but I don't want to do it because I don't want to get back on the gender equality committees or have someone declare this a certain statement. But if we're already in favour of equality, we should look at people who can advance, and they have other sexual needs, but aside from that. I would first of all like to say that I commend this step and the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and there has indeed been a huge and positive step, but I continue to argue that this one debate in the Croatian Parliament with burning cameras, with the media present, is weakening the power and Croatian defences and the Croatian Army. Because the situation regardless of whether it is inherited or uninherited in the Croatian Army is extremely bad so that I will rely on this story about Croatian Air Force. There were many promises that Croatian pilots would get apartments when signing the contract and going to the academy. So far, I don't think any of them got that promised apartment, but they had to take credit. And as for the condition of fighter planes, I think we'll soon have fighters and warriors on those dragons but without fuel in the way the Republic of Croatia's budget has been reduced, especially this item for the Ministry of Defence. And I commend the minister that the first step, here's the final sentence, was not a change of furniture and carpets as some did from 2000 to 2003, and so are these here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9398	Thank you. Time. I thank my colleague. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9399	Here's my colleague Vinkovic, I think it's good that the camera is on, so the general public could enjoy your debate on the quote: "sexual needs" related to the state of defence and human rights policy report. And progress in the Croatian Army depends on education and some information on the training of our officers is available, so we can assume that one of our officers will soon become a general.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9400	Comrade Vinkovic, there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure in the replica. ... So let's hear it then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9401	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9402	So here's my word and tell you what's been hurt, which article. ... The intruder doesn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand. So I give you my word, here. .../]] You picked up, you quit? Thank you. Okay. ... She wasn't there. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue the debate further. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A representative of my colleague Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9403	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Deputy Minister. Allow me in my discussion, I would say at the beginning what I agree with about this report and what they have repeated. On the other hand, I'd like to warn you of something that hasn't been said. On the third hand, he may have given a different assessment of this engagement in international operations and the fourth difference in responsibility that has been discussed today. I will start from this finding that the Armed Forces should primarily focus on the mission to protect sovereignty of independence and territorial integrity, i.e. to ensure Croatia's sovereignty on land, sea and air. However, what is the situation on this issue I simply apologize for repeating these basic financial indicators so I'm going to quote all of these are now quotes from this report. "In 2011, not a single project of the equipment and modernisation of the Croatian Navy was realised, although the acquisition of autonomous underwater vehicle and ship identification systems was planned. It was not accessible to contract the construction of coastal patrol ships as a prerequisite for the development of coast guard capabilities etc." As is said the GeM SC 2050 radar system is at the end of the life cycle. The ability to move and mobility of the Armed Forces on functional tasks, training and training tasks and military exercises has been reduced due to lack of non-combat vehicles and the ageing of military parks. Furthermore, the non-critical state with non-combat motor vehicles in the Armed Forces again in active use, as we have heard, is only 44% of the prescribed military motor vehicles with age, which has already been said for 21 years and with over 130 thousand miles traveled. Furthermore, it has been warned that over 36,000 tonnes of murderous funds have been stored in these warehouses, and 67% of these warehouses are not according to norms, satisfying norms, and standards. Furthermore, artillery has already been said not to satisfy the abilities, that 24% of all operational tanks and 47% of rocket or artillery. On the other hand, what is also said that in 2011 there was a lack of realisation of building up-to-date facilities and infrastructure. As for staff, even periodic inspections of military personnel have been successful, only 31% of personnel have passed. Fewer members of the Armed Forces were educated at HVO due to insufficient capacities of the Croatian Military University. Due to a small number of official apartments available for support and rotations, the Armed Forces were not able to carry out systematic rotations of active military personnel or to accept or retain in the Armed Forces staff of deficiting and waist. As a result, the reasons are always stated that the reduced financial resources are 1.47% of GDP, which are still reduced to 1.38% this year, and by the way, I want to say right away here that it is calling for NATO, NATO standards, interoperability, etc., and it is forgotten to say that NATO's expectations, NATO leadership to be 2% of GDP. What I think nobody mentioned today, and I think it's crucial to understand the state in which we are, is that according to this one specification, the implementation of the financial plan for research and development is spent 0.09% of the funding. 0,09%! Now, then we come up with this one doctrine behind which these negative trends want not to be covered up, but to explain that the situation is not because of participation in international operations that have priority and training and equipment. However, what is not said is that these international forces, i.e. have limited participation and are not said but are insufficiently undermining, restricted use and range because strategic transport must be provided by allies, i.e. both transport and armored vehicles, the infantry is provided by the US side mainly according to this report. And the thesis is that the alliance that this participation in international operations has a positive impact, which is true, but it's not enough for that primary task of the Armed Forces, which is to solve national threats. I'll get back to that now. Just one more question from this, all of these technical indicators is not a clear conclusion that this will achieve full integration of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces into NATO and the long-term process implemented to achieve full interoperability when simply this entire technical system is not operational and not functioning. And here it is said that this should end, the process ends in 2013. Now, let me go back to that question that's partially mentioned here, but I don't think it's clearly understated enough. The question of simple concept and development, the fact is it's been said that we are working on, but the fact is that we don't have a national security strategy, we don't have a defence strategy, we don't have a plan for the development of long-term, development of the armed forces. The one that has existed since 2009 has simply become obsolete because it still calls for us to be a NATO member, not even that fact, that fact has been accepted. On the other hand, there is actually a question of responsibility, who is responsible for the current situation. It seems to me that here it is forgotten that the Parliament is the one who is the most responsible here. On the other hand, that Pantovchak, or the President of the Republic, is responsible for being commander-in-chief and that the question of how this can happen is that from one respectable military force that has managed to solve it itself, we have solved territorial integrity and sovereignty in all of our territory, we have come to have one, that we have come to a situation like this. The question, in my opinion, is primarily to be thanked, should be thanked to all people in the Armed Forces, especially all those tasks that work in, and in international operations, but also in this civil sector. But also this, a way of organising the work and Parliament that we are all talking about past events all the time, and we are not on the agenda projection of development and the Armed Forces and exit from the crisis. Ms. Deputy is right when civil protection says civil protection, civil protection is not the subject of the Armed Forces, but where is the debate, where is this space, time and topic when we can discuss the whole issue of the Armed Forces and the protection of sovereignty because this is how the Parliament works will never come to order. And one fundamental question can be asked, I even think it has what is crucial for Croatia and for, that's that capital, the human capital that we have. We had only 200 thousand people under arms in the Storm, an operation that lasted a few days, and that means we had the command structure of what's called one business management in the second term. Then I'll finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9404	My fellow time, I beg you to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9405	The people that are no longer cared for, and today you have an instance, nor is it the Ministry of Defense, nor is anyone else who can, who should take care of it, those people, and people are all rested.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9406	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9407	Indeed, a colleague is right we are indeed discussing reports on the year behind us, not discussing the future and development of the Croatian Army, the defence system, but simply defining what is practically what has already been past. So here I can ask a few questions in this replica. Is it worth it to the Croatian state to retire a volunteer of the Homeland War, a Croatian general who is 69th year old who has completed all military schools, which is ultimately a disabled Homeland War, but who can give the most of his knowledge, with his war experience, to the Croatian military at the end. Simply, such people tend to the margin, do politics both in the defence and in the Croatian army, which is extremely bad. That is why I have nothing against women in the Croatian Army, because they were also participants in the Homeland War, but we cannot claim from this assembly speaker because we do not appoint Croatian generals or as someone said by the Croatian generals, but is appointed by the president of the state in agreement with the defence minister. On the other hand, I am opening one question that is very current now in Djakov, where the honorary school that has worked for many years has been abolished and transferred to Požeg, except that travel costs are reduced. And so are these officers who are now training for officers in Djakovo, who will also travel to Požeg. I just hope this isn't about politics, political reckoning and abolishing Djakov's honorary school, as the state's attorney's office, the municipal court, abolishing maternity care. Almost that power was also transferred by the Djakova cathedral to Duboba.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9408	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9409	That's why I'm asking as a representative for a written response from the Ministry of Defence, because I have just praised that this ministry has opened up to civilian structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9410	Thanks, buddy. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9411	Thank you. Regarding this issue, personnel policy and politicisation or depolitisation of the military. Just one example of how political furniture is changing is changing me, and I'm changing the list of anniversarys from the Armed Forces, the Homeland War. Well, every set has a list of who he calls, who he doesn't invite. If we want to be consistent and respect the participants of the Homeland War and the Homeland War, then the protocol would have to determine who calls on what occasions and to be something that belongs to that officer, or that person regardless of what political furniture is in power. On the other hand, that's still about the question of this report. Watch the Homeland War in this report is mentioned in two places, and both places are honoring the dead defenders of the Homeland War. When it comes to the pattern, the system of lessons learned, we have a situation not to mention the Homeland War, the doctrine of the Homeland War and what was happening, but we have a situation where Croatian generals, Croatian admirals, were called by NATO when NATO had blocked its operations either in Kosovo or Iraq. To consult and to come up, to hear their opinion, unlike practice. I have not heard that since 2000 it has been in such situations that senior officers have been invited or a certain circle of people involved in the strategy and development of the Croatian Army to hear their opinion whether solutions are the best or something else can be suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9412	Thank you. We had another replica, Agent Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9413	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. You've asked your distinguished professors one question as to who is to blame as a fundamental question for this condition. Oh, I think our first Croatian president is Dr. Franjo Tudjman turns in the grave when he sees what the proud and famous Croatian army has turned into today. But the answer to your question is very clear, the guilt began with former President Stjepan Mesic. The moment he forcibly retired 11 wartime Croatian generals when he made an unprecedented cleanup in the Croatian military, all of what we now unfortunately have in the Ministry of Defence and in the defence system began. It started with Mesic, and it continued with Sanader, and it continues today with incumbent President Josipovic. He had a situation that we had wartime Croatian generals in prisons both in Croatia and outside Croatia. We have a situation that Croatian defenders are being persecuted, and that in the Croatian Assembly, we have a situation that those who fired on the Croatian people are walking unhindered by the Republic of Croatia and our Croatian defenders are not allowed to cross the border with fear that they will not be brought into someone's court. You remember that story I think Hans Christian Andersen is that ugly duck, the White Swan, and this policy that's being run today leads to getting a bad duck from a white swan. We hope that this will not be the case, but we express again the fear, here is the Deputy Minister, I have asked here how you intend to improve the modernisation and equipment of the Croatian Army by reducing the budget compared to 2011 is this year for 38 million kuna, and in the following year you planned to reduce it by 155 million kuna. 193 million kunas less detachment of money for the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is indeed threatening to make an ugly duck out of the Croatian army instead of a white swan. And today it's St. John's Day. Ante and I will say one more thing you know. ... They're singing "St. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Ante, if you are able to take Stipa, Eve, and give us back Francis."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9414	We have a reply to the replica, Agent Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9415	Thank you. About this thesis about the ugly duck, and in general about the formation and modernisation of the Croatian Army. The thesis is that I agree that these commercial conflicts are no longer the primary but are the primary conflicts of low intensity, meaning information warfare. Or NATO leaders have units to conduct information operations, media operations and structure, function, the doctrine of which is available on the Internet, you can see. We have nothing in our formation of the Croatian Armed Forces. That is why it is said here that members of the Croatian military are involved in international operations in direct operations, not expert support. In other words, it's just better said that our people are far more exposed because of the logistics support and the fact that they're living targets, and others deal with these sophisticated jobs that we're simply not equipped with. Therefore, this too reflects on this situation of the criminalisation of the Homeland War and members of the Croatian Army, so if you want a man to be naive that he does not believe that this affair on the financing of taking or not taking these double-readers is not timed the day before the armed forces are marked. Therefore, if we really want one debate about the Croatian Army on organisation and structure, it should be preceded in the Croatian Parliament, not that the Croatian Parliament will come to an end with the story of forming the Croatian Army to insist that the entire organisation of the management and media information that NATO forces have in Croatia be installed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9416	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. A representative of my colleague, Željko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9417	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Listening to today's debate on the Croatian Armed Forces, there was very little expert debate on the Croatian military but as if we were all aware of the situation in which the technical part of the weapon is located and then we try to transfer the blame from one to another, which is why. Now there is no Mr. Tomislav Ivic who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club and then said he would like to see what kind of vision the new Minister of Armed Forces has, given that our situation is catastrophic. And for eight years, HDZ was in power, their defence minister, but I am personally convinced that the defence minister tried to pull the maximum out of the current state. And you don't have to keep trying to move the ball to the other one whether something's wrong at a certain point or time, because it won't bring us anything good at all. We are all proud of the Croatian army for the defence war. I'm proud to be part of the Homeland War, but we are now in a very different situation. I am convinced that if our country were once again in danger that our youth would react the same way as we did today. I'm convinced of that. Circumstances are different. However, what I would like as a parliamentary representative as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia to find the strength and opportunities to sign a contract for 126 armored vehicles received by Patria, so working in Djura Djakovic is not at the same pace as the contract of 126 armored vehicles was signed, 67 was delivered. In the first quarter of this year, 12 or 14 should be completed. And to try and find strength and opportunities to order for the Coast Guard means... Ships, to find some chance to move into that project. [[You don't understand.]] At what rate, whether it will be one, two, three, we have Croatian shipyards that can certainly meet these challenges. Another thing that I think is very important, if I'm not mistaken because I read it from the media, that the minister or ministry has reached the conclusion that the Air Force remains in the Croatian Army system. I think this is very important, and on the basis of the Defence Council's conclusion, the Ministry of Defence examines the possibilities for the justice of the extension of life span of the existing MiG 21 aircraft. Whatever decision it will be, it will be a re-improvement of the characteristics of MIG 21 or it will be a competition for some other aircraft I think it is very important that this decision is taken and that this Council for Defence of the Ministry is taken as soon as possible. Transferring blame to the Parliament, Pantovchak, the competent ministry, government this or that won't do us any good. And the Croatian army is sacred and should not be used for daily political purposes. I am convinced that the Defence Committee has discussed this report much deeper and more specifically because the fact is what he told his colleague Vinkovic, that many things might say differently and go differently in detail that there is no transmission and that it is not available to everyone. I therefore call on the Deputy Deputy Minister to transfer the debate ministers and within the framework of the possible budget for 2012 when we will discuss in 2013 the 2012 Armed Forces Report that at least small shifts will be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9418	Thank you very much. We have four replicas on your exhibit. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9419	I'm glad my colleague Kolar confirmed that I was right. That's why I took up the line because I knew about what Agent Kolar was going to say. Indeed, the Chetnik is a Chetnik duke, the Chetnik Duke remains a Chetnik duke, whether he won 50% in the runoffs or less. We simply open with this debate what precisely those who attacked Croatia in '91. years shouldn't know. We shouldn't know that our Air Force situation is catastrophic, that possibly one MiG 21 can take off and I'll stop there, I won't talk about the state of defense anymore, because it could be considered a traitor. ... And I'm not the one who's been tipping it off. The others have already tipped it off. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I trust this defence minister who is both the Croatian general and the former Duke of Alkar and who has little and different opinions from this left to say the left. I really believe him, he proved himself in the Homeland War, and I believe he'll be a good defence minister. But we can't have this kind of discussion in front of the media because really every one of us, and I wouldn't agree with you, Mr. Kolar if there weren't any expert debates here, it was very clear, but the debate that they just had in mind that they did not stop dreaming through the Danube, at least the vast majority of them, did not stop dreaming about Greater Serbia, nor will they ever stop dreaming, nor will any of them sitting in this Croatian Parliament, nor have they stopped dreaming about it. That's why we don't even say exactly what we want to say in a closed debate. As far as the Croatian military and Croatian defenders and the Homeland War are concerned, they are indeed sacred, but Croatian defender, volunteer of the Homeland War...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9420	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9421	One sentence. Who did not activate later in the Croatian Army, who worked and returned to his post when he died, received an honorary float, received the Croatian flag, and there stands the care of the Croatian state for such a Croatian defender. Well, that's not sacred, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9422	Thank you. You're done. There will be opportunities in the next agenda. We have another replica, Agent Dinko Buric. Excuse me, reply to the replica. Representative Zeljko Kolar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9423	My colleague Vinkovic, I am glad that I am a little more left than the respected minister, but I also prefer that we are thinking the same about the Croatian Army and what it meant before and what it should be in the future. And in the debate sometimes it's enough to say things clearly and loudly just once, there's no need to repeat them six, seven or eight times in the same context because then they lose meaning. I hope you understand what I've been meaning to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9424	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Next is MP Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9425	Thank you. Dear colleague, at one point you said that you yourself are a Croatian defender and I am glad that you are, but you also said that you are convinced that our Croatian youth, if again the sovereignty and freedom of the Croatian state and the Croatian people were to be held in the same way. I'm sure you would, but I'm asking a question about what. When we had such a military force that, even in our mind, prevented any potential future aggressor, so well said counterpart Vinkovic, they did not stop dreaming about Greater Serbia, we put ourselves in a position to fear and attack the forces of the Indian chief of the Mad Horse, not of such forces as the criminal JNA. And God forbid it happens to us. And they're saying they'll defend us to NATO, so it's a little bit tomorrow, just like '91. A year. I don't believe that. Whatever we're talking about and saying it's not like that, I'll tell you why I think it is. If they really thought to defend Croatia against the great Serbian claims that are still present, let's not fool ourselves that they are not, Vuk Jeremic would not have been elected president of the UN General Assembly. And you can be sure of that. And also when we talk about the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and their importance and contribution, and what led to the criminalisation of the Homeland War. Professor Tudjman mentioned Armed Forces Day on May 28, 1991. Yes, and I ask the question, and what we are celebrating on 28 May 1991 The Day of the Armed Forces when in judgment of Croatian General Branimir Glavas, the Croatian judiciary said that by 8 October 1991, the Assembly of the National Guard and the Croatian Army were illegal formations, and the only legal units were JNAs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9426	Time colleagues, time. Thank you. Next to respond to the replica representative Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9427	Dear fellow Buric, of course, you didn't replicate to me, did you? Because it means you could have called for a debate and, in your debate, put out your views which, of course, have absolutely nothing to do with this agenda point. [[Intruder Buric: I gave you the opportunity to replicate to me.]] So we're talking about the 2011 report. I also couldn't agree with you that the situation was worse than in 1991 because you well know that then there was a sign that the RH was practically disarmed and that different channels were coming weapons to Croatia, and let's just say I was the first time I went to the battlefield I went to my jeans and PPŠ, you probably know what that means. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So don't compare things that don't stand, the situation is not to compare at all, the technology is progressing, and we certainly need to make sure that we keep our Armed Forces fighting together. But in the way you do it, you certainly won't contribute to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9428	Thank you. Comrade Vinkovic, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9429	... Article 214 [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Dear Kolar, we are Croatian defenders and participants of the Homeland War and we really know the way and there is a injured Rules of Procedure because first of all
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9430	But what do I think from the Rules of Procedure? This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9431	Well, it offended me, offended this statement by Mr. Kolar that if we continue like this, we will certainly not contribute to the development of the Croatian Army and Croatian forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9432	A colleague of Vinković's
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9433	So, as a Croatian defender, a participant in the Homeland War insulted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9434	My colleague Vinkovic was not injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9435	Because I'm in '91. He knew how to answer. And the repetition is, Mr. Kolar, the mother of knowledge. And as for the '90s,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9436	I didn't give my colleague Vinkovic my word after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9437	All I'm asking is who handed over the weapons of territorial defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9438	I warn my colleague Vinkovic! I remind you, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't let you talk after that. I give you a warning!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9439	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9440	Please. We have further replicas, MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9441	Thank you. Well, here's Agent Kolar. I wanted to look back on something else. You mentioned the HDZ Secretary of Defense. The past government's mandate included three HDZ defence ministers over the past eight years. And they and their deputies, the assistants, it was grief, bug and hook all together for eight years. As far as aviation decisions are concerned, I return to the aviation decision once again because it in some way fully personifies the overall position that politics will take towards the Armed Forces. The renewal or maintenance of MIG 21 is nothing more than a fig leaf in which politics will be hidden and found for a period of one term of its responsibility for maintaining the Armed Forces and maintaining the combat preparedness of the Croatian Air Force. It's practically nothing. And invest another 20, 30, 50 or 70 million kunas in the maintenance of these poor, poor, impoverished MiG 21st who can fly only in fine weather in broad daylight and who are grounded everywhere from 20 years ago does not mean absolutely anything for Croatian Armed Forces or Croatian Air Force. Therefore, this Government, but this Croatian Parliament should also show the political will on all sides that it is ready to take responsibility and support the Government and a firm stance to show and take up whether Croatia needs or does not need Croatian Air Force. This cannot be handed over to some defense councils because the defence councils are not chosen by the Croatian people but by Croatian representatives. Therefore, Croatian MPs in line with the SDP should say whether or not we are for Croatian Air Force? Whether or not we will be willing to accept the fact that the Croatian state should invest a billion kuna for aviation. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9442	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9443	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9444	Thank you. Replica response, Agent Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9445	Ninety-five percent of what you said now I agree. I just said it's important to make a decision because it's the worst when decisions aren't made and time goes by. And if you've carefully read the report, then it says that in 2008, it's beginning to think. So in 2008, 2009, 2010, we thought about it, and we didn't make any decisions. And the plan is intended to mean from the Armed Forces from 2006 to 2015 as long-term, so I said it was better to make any decision than none to agree with you that if there is a possibility that this other variant would certainly be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9446	Thank you. We have another replica, Agent Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9447	Thank you. The esteemed representative Kolar said, mentioning that it was not a good transfer of responsibility. I wasn't talking about the transfer of responsibility, I was talking about taking responsibility, I think we should be aware here when we accept this report, just for example, if 69% of the space stored is beyond standard means there's a risk that something unwanted happens in such warehouses. That means if we accept it, we take responsibility as a Parliament, why no more funds are allowed to change things, and not after that, we're looking for the guilty person who is guilty or not guilty. And that's our thing. On the other hand, it is not only a question of these warehouses but of broken vehicles, technical equipment, whether it is aircraft, long vessels or anything else. Therefore, this principle of taking responsibility for this should be taken into account, and frankly this logic that we are constantly returning to blame for some of the previous decisions is simply in my opinion the measures of inability and irresponsibility to address situations, i.e. problems in the present. You have one example as a clear principle, of which we are, unfortunately, very far away, it seems to me that 50 and a few years in American politics did not happen that, to criticise this new president or government criticised the decisions of the previous U.S. government. When we achieve such a degree, then I am convinced that we will solve a lot of our problems in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9448	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9449	Thank you very much. Just what Mr. Tudjman was last saying was the goal of my speech. And that's why we don't always go back to what it was because it's clear that up to 67% of the space that isn't suitable for storage didn't happen overnight. So she wasn't systematically concerned or worried. So, it's important in this report that a real state has been given that everyone needs to worry about him. And to be clearly seen in the 2013 Report, which will be held in the Assembly, for 2012, whether any developments have been made and that will be the key to our debate. We will probably remember in part what we discussed today and in 2013 when we will discuss in the 2012 Report we will see if there are any developments. The budget's shrinking? It's shrinking, but the state used to be in charge of other things. It's important to show will, and it's important to move. With your local brains, with the start of your domestic production, I think you can find a solution. And that was actually my whole point, my debate was to focus on what we should do, because we absolutely all agreed that the situation wasn't good. I'm gonna stay on this isn't best. Let's not go into any other analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9450	Thank you. The word was asked by the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Vishna Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen, you've asked a lot of questions, you've made a lot of statements. I'm gonna try and look back at some of them at the end now. The Annual Defence System Report is an annual report that we are in line with the Defence Act due as Government to submit to the Croatian Parliament. These days, we are in preparation for a new Law on Defence and a new Law on Service, Armed Forces and there will be an opportunity for you to speak out whether you want to or do not want to go back, as you have said, to submit a Report to the Croatian Assembly. As for the questions you asked me, Mr. Buric, how are we going to secure something for the modernisation next year, and we have a budget that's smaller? I have to tell you that you may not have followed the budget, but this year, for the modernisation of the Armed Forces alone, 755 million kuna has been allocated to the BOV project. That's the amount of money that's made any other kind of modernisation in the Armed Forces impossible for us. The BOV project should be completed next year and will no longer cost 755 million but if we really succeed what we intend to do next year, that burden will be maximum. When armed stations of 30 mm are agreed, and some of you here mentioned that we only have 12.7 and we only have 17.7 and agreed on a certain amount of 126 combat armored vehicles. And these days a decision will be made on how many vehicles a 30-mm weapon station will be installed on. Therefore, what the minister has already announced, and in the media you could read is that what he plans for next year, to keep him money or to ask for the 100m-euro money he will need for equipment and modernisation further. Mr. Miles said we're having trouble keeping the staff, and that's true, primarily the doctor. One of the reasons we haven't been able to keep the doctors, I'm going to tell you here today is that from the Ministry of Health we haven't received approval for years that inside the Armed Forces we have a health care facility. One MUP has a medical facility to review police officers, but the Ministry of Defence has not been given the opportunity for years to form a health care facility within a system of armed forces and the Ministry of Defence to work in, specialize and advance our doctors. That's why they're leaving our system because we just don't have that possibility. This year we started a conversation with the Minister of Health and we have a promise that our center, which we call the Air Force Centre, will see the possibility of what we need legally fulfilling so that this, too, space has opened up so that doctors within the Armed Forces can advance. As for the Croatian economy and our investment in it, I only have to mention one fact, and it happened seven days after the Ministry of Defence's budget was adopted, which is that the defence minister is seven days after the budget was passed this year. And you know for yourself that the budget was made later because of the circumstances that were. In the first week, 34.5 million kuna "returned" to the Croatian economy in a way that equipped Croatian soldiers with all Croatian products. We think it's a real success. Mr. Tudjman, I agree with him that research and development has been neglected in the Armed Forces, one of the basic reasons is that we also lack of people because of the small resources and opportunities we have to remain within the Armed Forces and deal with this activity. And what you asked, which is interoperability, how we will achieve it with NATO members when we have such limited resources. I must tell you that we ally every year declare forces, and declaring forces means telling you why you think you're capable and when you declare forces, allies expect you to do so. So we will never achieve the overall interoperability with the NATO alliance, but we will have the declared powers and abilities that allies ask of us. What the Allies have seen as well, and they call it smart-difens, and I believe that you've studied it equally, so it's about each of the allies giving what they can because it's called smart defense. So we all have to say if we're going to develop helicopter forces then the armed forces of Croatia will be the ones who will give helicopter forces to NATO alliances. As for your other objections that we have published what we call professionals, means persons who are professionally incapable of working on the eve of Armed Forces Day. I really need to tell you that the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces didn't do it. Mr. Djakic, who I otherwise appreciate on the Defence Committee, did so because he took out a solution from one of his colleagues on the Defence Committee and presented it to the Croatian public that the Ministry of Defence for this information was informed of the 41 officers 5 months ago and we did not release any information from our house to the media or anyone else. It was learned on the Defence Committee when Mr Djakic called us to work on a political cleanup, to remove people who are from the Homeland War, but I really have to answer you, it is about people who, based on the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, have earned the right to pay differently because they were thought to have been wounded in the Homeland War, have given or sustained some kind of injury. The state has decided to give them a pay gap that they could not achieve because they were disabled in the Armed Forces by professional advancement. But that's not true. These people are neat because we didn't know about their professional incompetence progressed and no one can tell me that not when some of them came to the rank of general. We do not at all dispute that it is legal to receive, we dispute only the fact that they have, by hiding or the services that have not done their job, made it possible for these persons to make progress, to carry out the tasks which they otherwise are forbidden by those same solutions. Furthermore, Mr. Honorable Representative Buric, you have made me truly sad, and I appreciate you saying that someone who was a higher power needs to take someone. I assume that you are Catholic and that calling Stipe, Eve, is simply not appropriate in this House of Highs. Furthermore, the question of the honorary school asked by Mr. Vinkovic I will ask you a written answer which are the reasons why the honorary school is being moved to Požeg. I also think that if I stayed in debt to someone else, I still owe it to the fact that our people are working in Afghanistan. So we simply said that Mr. Tudjman can't do "sofistic" jobs, but I tell you that pilot training is more than a sophisticated job when it's done by Croatian pilots and Croatian engineers who train the forces of Afghan forces in Afghanistan and thus we show that we have abilities. Therefore, we are a leading nation at the School of Military Police in Afghanistan, and we are also able to develop it continues to speak and the fact that we have formed an Air Force School in Zadar in which the Czech Republic has joined us these days, and we hope that some other countries will join us. I'm saddened here that you've all raised the question today as if the Ministry of Defense and so has the President of the Republic that we've all given up on the ability of the Air Force. I didn't say it in one word, and if you listened carefully to me in the vision of the future, it was especially said that the decision would be made. So no one said to the esteemed representative or that the MiGs 21 would be remounted because it would be just some cover, no one said they would get the Gripeni, no one said they would get the MiGs 29, but a decision on one of the types of procurement whether to get a new or let's say the used aircraft will surely be made this year and will be taken by the Defence Council. The Defence Council shall be the Council established by the Defence Act. Here's another sentence. [[Intruder: Time respected Deputy Minister.]] Therefore, the decision will surely be made by the end of this year and we will be informed on time. As far as the long-term development plan is concerned, it will also be before you by the end of this year, and then you will have opportunities to discuss the future of the Armed Forces and will support everything proposed in the long-term development plan, so I hope that we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9452	Thank you, too, dear Deputy Secretary of Defense. Three amendments to the incorrect quote have been reported to your presentation. The first is the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect allegations of Deputy Minister Tafra who incorrectly stated that I presented to the press that they were receiving two salaries in the debate on the board. I've been on the board discussing your regulation that you've brought and which minister has signed. And the rulebook sounds like this, "The Rules of Procedure on the Amendments to the Regulation on the establishment of health skills in the military service" adopted on 17 April 2012. In this House, you can't use me with false actions and putting words in your mouth that didn't come out of my mouth. You can not afford to call a representative in this House and lie to this Croatian House as well as to the Croatian people who were exposed to the newspaper you when you came out of the board. I've also discussed this with this pearl of yours, which you've also made with a decision on the amount of severance and depravation, so that later it can be employed in the same institutions. It's your work, we want to discuss it, it's your human policy, it's your cleanup of all those from the Homeland War, all those disabled people who bled for the Croatian state, all those who died in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9454	Thank you very much. The next correction to an incorrect quote by the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9455	I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that it was me, or that it was realized that I said that the Department of Defense was disinformation. I didn't say that in any way, I didn't address it because I don't know who placed it. But I was talking about the lack of structure and units or units to deal with the information war, cyber terrorism, neither in the Croatian military nor in the Armed Forces, nor in other parts of the Croatian security system. That's one thing. And secondly, when we talk about, you further mentioned, interoperability should be an assessment not only of what we are capable of now but of what we should be able to do in the future so that in the most relevant or most vital of us segments we can participate in, rather than just be, by being an expert support as you state in your terminology, not just being direct support. And I think that it should be acceptable for everyone rational to formulate the Croatian Army's development plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9456	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9457	Here I'm actually going to ask the Deputy Minister to get me this answer as soon as possible before and in reality the Honorary School moves from Djakova to Požeg, I don't know if it's Ronka or for me, but either way you deliver it to me sooner or later so it doesn't really happen that we have a case again, for example. with the state attorney's office and the municipal court that one large majority of the cases and the state's attorney's office transferred to Nasice, and that the citizens of Djakova practically have no connection other than the 12 o'clock bus and that of the only one who goes to Nasice and goes back and practically can't do a single job. That's what the former HDZ government did, so I urge you not to make the same mistakes. And I hope that among these 34 million kunas that are invested in the equipment of the Croatian Army and the Djakova Hemko, and I have immediately suggested that these battleships instead of bankruptcy in the Queen let them make it so that there will be saved the Queen from bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9458	Thank you very much. It's an interesting correction to an incorrect quote, but let's keep it... Next for a five-minute debate on behalf of the HNS club Petar Baranovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Out of love.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party is definitely not a party that would advocate a militant society or a militant state, but in any case we insist and insist in the Croatian Parliament that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia be brought into a state that guarantees the possibility of fulfilling the constitutional task of defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, territorial integrity and that at any time be at a disposition to prevent any threat to the security of Croatian citizens. Listen to this debate today, I remembered several of my schoolmates and friends who lost their lives back in '91. One sat with me in a school bench in high school, went alone to the Yugoslav People's Army tanks to stop it, today has a chapel near the Sibenik Bridge that we all go to every year. The second I escorted him out of Sibenik when he went to get the engine ready because he had days off, the next news the next morning was that it hit him on the big head. What is certain is that they did not die for a society where there are such discussions, such a level of debate, such a mutual relationship between parliamentary deputies as they are today to feel in the Croatian Parliament. We're all sinners and I personally had an episode at a moment of weakness that I regret. But I appeal before I continue on the subject, I will use a little pay phone, to really restore the dignity and seriousness of this house and give the future generations of parliamentary deputies a chance to address the introductory Croatian Assembly. Thus, the correcting of an incorrect quote was totally unworthy, and so it was after my opening debate. So I'm going to use the situation to comment on some things. The budget is today a reflection of the overall situation in Croatian society, but be assured that rational and responsible budget management can be done with some important things. My colleague Lesar kept mentioning aluminum boats. It is not a problem of Hellsing class rocket cannons and that they are made of aluminium because all the similar attack ships of the smaller deplain in the Navy are made of aluminium. It's a shipbuilding technology used. The problem is that the basic combat systems in both the Navy and the Air Force are not correct and that is what is certainly the future task of the ministry to ensure. The detachment of responsibility is not correct for all former presidents and current presidents, because in Croatian society, gentlemen, it is quite clear when the Croatian Constitution is read that the fundamental responsibility for the functioning of this state and parts of this society in the Croatian Parliament is, and that is what we must all remember and therefore refer to all topics. We are responsible, we are making a budget, we are bringing strategic documents in Croatian society and we are giving tasks to the executive and the president of the state is not in Croatia based on constitutional provisions above that. One topic I would like to quickly because time leaks, it is a question of future reservations in the Croatian Army that are divided into a contractual reserve and a non-classified reserve. For the contract it is clear how we will provide it, it is much less numerous, for it we must also provide the technique in the reserve, but unclassified slowly leaks because we today are not preparing future generations of young people in Croatia for a possible threat, and that is something about other resors, as well as education systems. We cannot deal with the safety of Croatian citizens in this way, nor with the safety and preparedness of future generations for any difficult and lead situations that we have witnessed, and some of us have participated in them. And ultimately, the secrecy of the debate. Yes, I agree, sometimes it was not the custom for Parliament to have a full public discussion in front of cameras, but reading the previous discussions on this topic in the Croatian Parliament it was seen that it was not discussed at this level and it is not good, where it is fortunate that the situation in the Armed Forces was discussed in this way several years ago. Be assured that the content of this 2011 report would not have been so defeated that before the open and honest talk about the subject, but also about all other topics affecting Croatian society. Finally, I confirm once again that since this is a zero report and that it is correctly drawn up, technically, regardless of the tragedy of its content, the HNS Club will support this report and give the opportunity to the new minister, the current minister, to resolve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9460	Thank you very much. We've got a report of a misstatement. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9461	Well, I'll correct my colleague Baranovic. No zero report, this is the 2011 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9462	Correct the quote, not your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9463	All right, I think. I am correcting the quote of HNS counterparts to the Kukurik coalition of Petar Baranovic who said this is a zero report. This isn't a zero report. I hope I was in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure now. This is the 2011 Report that really outlines the devastating situation in the defence of the Republic of Croatia and ultimately in the Croatian Army. I think our goal, all of us, is to make it better. I said that here we at the HDSSB club believe in the minister, the Croatian general, former Alkarian Duke Ante Kotromanovic, that he will do everything possible to fix this situation. But in any case, as parliamentary representatives, we want to participate in the creation of a better Croatian army because it threatens Croatia today, and I will repeat because the repeat of the es mother studiorum threatens us from the east of the vampire Chetniks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9464	Thank you very much. And finally, the Deputy Minister of Defence again respected Višnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian Mr. Djakic, I did not really call you a liar at any point because I would never allow myself to do so personally or professionally, I just said what happened on the Assembly Defence Committee, and here there are living witnesses from the parliamentary committee who were present and who can confirm it. We had journalists sitting behind us who correctly conveyed my words, as well as yours. As proof that you were the first to state that fact, I will now give you what I remember, which is that you read from the solution that it was about a man who was a member of the Guard Brigade and you read part of his solution. Believe me, when I went to check which person was involved among all 41 people after the assembly session 5 days after that, I was able to figure out which person it was because he was the only one who had a difference to the guard's allowance. So, I really didn't intend to call it the least of you a liar, I just made the fact that you did. The truth is, you mentioned here a rule on the separation of prospective and unspective active military personnel and then compared it to the Health Assessments Regulation. These two things have absolutely nothing to do with each other. The health assessment regulation is something to assess whether the active military person is capable or unable to be an active military person. The rule on professional progress, i.e. having criteria or not having for further professional development, applies to the officer, the officer and the soldier. It's about three regulations, they differ, and they prescribe criteria for how active military personnel can be promoted. Mr. Tudjman, I was obliged to say something about protocol and impeachment. I can't talk about what happened before we came to the Department of Defense now. I agree with you that the different protocols that were different have called on people, but I am convinced that on the 21st anniversary we celebrated the other day the Armed Forces made a real effort because we gave such a warrant that they were obliged to invite everyone including parliamentary representatives, all persons involved in the creation of the Croatian State and the Armed Forces as well. And I will agree with my colleague Baranovic that the rational spending of the budget can be done a lot, and that is exactly what Minister Kotromanovic has been doing with his team since the start of this mandate that simply everything that represents the cost of the Ministry of Defence has been subject to these 5 months of review because believe me, the Ministry of Defence has been a house that has paid a lot of money. You had a chance to see in the media the minister came out with information about that the teleopers weren't paying us anything, and their devices were on our antennas. That the city of Split paid us nothing, and the Ministry of Defence warms the Split swimming pools. You're gonna ask me why, I don't know why either. We drove with the Ministry of Health so people who were at risk of life with their helicopters, never with us were they all borne by the Department of Defense. The military honors we pay under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, and the Law on Croatian Defence states that the cost of the Ministry of Defence was the cost of the Ministry of Defence. I know you'll all say it's all state. I agree with you that it's all state, but every time you take some money away from the Department of Defense's budget it's less money for what the Armed Forces need, including modernisation. So, by the rational spending that we're really going to continue on, these are just the beginnings that we started, we've had the opportunity to bring in all the entities that are spending money with us, and we just don't know, believe me, there are contracts from '94. year after year, no one ever restored them, never asked why someone was wasting electricity, never asked why someone was wasting water. So I'm really convinced that by rational spending, we're going to be able to do something. I invite you just as I invited you, each of you at the Department of Defense always has an open door for every question we stand at his disposal, and Mr. Vinkovic's warrant to get an answer will be given to my associates by tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9466	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We've re-enlisted three corrections to your exposure. The first is the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9467	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I have to re-correct the incorrect assumption that I've revealed to the press that people are receiving double receipts. These are your words that you have spoken unconsciously that there are solutions that have been translated, and thus translated solutions do not have a function of real damage to the professional organism. You have prepared a regulation stating the active military personnel who have been granted the right to a disability pension by a decision of the competent authority because of their professional inability to work on any basis is assessed by an assessment of 1. Since 17 April 2012, all these solutions of these people have been put into professional incompetence and placed a score of 1 in order to prepare them for removal from the Croatian Army. That's the truth I was talking about, not a word of it was transmitted by journalists, but only by yours, that about thirty high-ranking officers and officers with, received both pensions and wages, which is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9468	Thank you very much. The next correction is the respected Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I am correcting your incorrect claim that on June 28th you invited all those who participated in the creation of the Croatian state. When you mark the day of the Armed Forces, because that's not the exact quote. It is true that you have invited all those who have destroyed the SFRY, not the creators of the Croatian state. It is clear to you that I am paraphrasing now because you and we are right to wear this badge, which we say that the Croatian state was created not on 8 October 1991 and that the National Guard Assembly and the Croatian Army were not illegal troops and that only JNA was a legal unit, as the Croatian General Branimir Glavas said in a shameful verdict. I'm glad you agreed with me. And when it comes to spending money, that's exactly what you said. You can't do anything with less money, and you said every kuna taken from the Department of Defense is less for equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9470	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9471	And I'm asking 38 million kunas less for this year and 150 less than this year, even next year. What do you mean to equip and modernise the Croatian army?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9472	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. About this thesis that everyone was invited. I would suggest we meet separately so we can discuss it, so let's see who's not everything, how he's been invited, that's one thing. However, my intervention went in a different direction, to create a protocol, not which will be the protocol of a particular party, or of a minister or ministry, but a protocol that will be valid regardless of what the political option is in power and that it includes not only the marking of Statehood Day but also other important events or positions. Because certain armies, that, if you will, can also set an example when to do shifts, the official shift of the commanders of individual areas or individual units is then made it possible to call all previous commanders to maintain tradition and make a mark of it. Clearly, the commander can be replaced in the middle of the night, but the official one of the handovers she can be doing ceremonially much later. That's what I've been talking about, and that's what if everybody's talking about, there's a lot of mouth transparency, then that's what the ministry needs, or Parliament, or which institution to adopt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9474	Thank you very much, thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted all the lists reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. We will now stop with the work of the Plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, continue work tomorrow at 9.30 with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Administrative Disputes, first reading, P.Z. No. 94. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-13-0.u9475	Now we move on to the very act of voting regarding these points that we had during the debate during the week. We'll also come up with choices, appointments and resolutions. First of all, the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces for 2011 with the Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2011. The debate is concluded, and according to the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system, implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces for 2011 is accepted with the 2011 Report on the State of Defence Preparations in the Republic of Croatia for 2011. Please, who's in favor of this conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 130 votes.
