ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6058	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break, and due to tonight's intervention of a special police force that is still taking place on Adriatic workers and against the law of determining house detention for the representatives of the working council and unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6059	Here you are, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6060	The HDSB club on the same issue requires a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6061	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6062	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ club, I'm also looking for a 15-minute break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6063	Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6064	Also, I'm also joining... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6065	Likewise.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6066	Also on behalf of the HNS break club of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6067	On behalf of the HNS Club. And on behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec is looking for a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue in 10 to 15 minutes. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6069	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. According to information provided by the media this morning, but also in the direct conversation that I had before I asked for this break, Croatian police and these special units intervened last night and this intervention is still going towards the workers of the "Jadrankamen" on the island of Brac. Union and labour union representatives are locked up in their private homes with the threat that if they come out they will be arrested. After talking to me and communicating with them and the phone is no longer possible, none of them can be obtained, and according to the information I received, 20 workers have been arrested, others are still defending the entrance to the bankruptcy manager's factory. On whose orders the police intervened, who filed a request, who authorized the intervention, who was protected by the Jadrankamen police. For a year and a half, the representatives of workers, the institutions of the rule of law, warned, indicated, submitted applications and proved in a suspicious manner to the company. They visited all the addresses they thought were competent and should prevent the destruction of companies. Neither the police, nor the police minister, nor the state's attorney then issued a warrant for intervention. The "Jadrankamen" has not been entered by the Crimea, the police UskoK, Bajic UskoK, or Bajic, and there is no one and a unique example in Croatia to open bankruptcy proceedings on the offer of the owner on the 63rd day of the orderly blockade. Of course, in this case as it was, the Kamensko story lasted for a year and a half, the Bilokalic, DIOKI, Đakovština, KIO Orahovica, Adriaticem, Pan paper, the story repeats itself. For a year and a half, two years is stolen, the property of the sale, the market destroys, workers declare the surplus, and ultimately the bankruptcy process comes. The banks that put these companies in debt as hyenas and vultures wait for payment, and when they were lending, they knew that money for these loans did not go to companies whose mortgage and assets were taken as collateral rather than other projects, other investments most often questionable. No one reacted then either. When workers rebelled and protected the country's mineral wealth and then the state asked about the concession nothing, the concession fee nothing. It's a mineral-exploited company that's been lost. Only one of the greatest experts in stealing can do that. And when they proposed to the government to continue production because they had raw materials, they had orders, they had a market, they didn't have anyone to talk to. In poverty and misery, they try to protect their jobs and the right to survive. Now the police are enforcing the law on someone's request and on someone's orders. The police didn't even follow the law when it started to steal, when the company started destroying itself. No one implemented the law when workers sent applications, asked for answers and offered solutions. The police will now prove that they are acting legally and that they are protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I can arrest all the workers, I can take Bratch anywhere. Shame on the rule of law will not be hidden. The muscles now shown by the Brač specialists are not muscles against these workers but are being sent a message that they will always side with those who stole and destroyed businesses, not workers. This circumstance, Mr. President, is such because I am afraid that in all new examples in Croatia, the same practice will be applied, that the Minister of the Interior must come to the Assembly, answer these questions. Since it is on the agenda under the 3rd point of the Internal Affairs Ministry report, I ask you and I appeal to the President to replace the agenda order so that this point is first so that the Minister of the Interior will immediately come to the Assembly and answer the key question: on whose order and request and whose approval the police are brutally intervened in such a way as to determine the house arrest, cut off communications, arrest 20 people and forcefully attempt to introduce a bankruptcy manager who is a proven master how companies are liquidated in bankruptcy proceedings. If that's the plan to save the economy, if that's what's promised to the citizens then it's just that everyone else's message you won't have to deal with anymore with the state's attorney because he doesn't read your applications, the police will come when it comes to protecting those who robbed your companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6070	On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6071	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Jadrankaman, police intervention, special ops these last few hours is actually one of the tragic examples of how our police, the special police, are actually being intervening, whatever you want. I was a member of the war myself, I'd say abuse, and for the sake of someone's interests. We brought here the Constitution a year ago in which the crime in privatisation and conversion is marked as crime and the letter so there is the possibility of investigating and persecuting criminal privatisation and conversion, and we well know what ownership structure in the Adriatic is established. Should we talk about how there has been a conversion and privatisation of the Adriatic? I'd say more openly than criminally. Now, a stone without this Adriatic is the raw material produced by this company. This stone is neither sown, nor plowed, nor reaped, nor casts out artificial manure, nor depends on irrigation. He's been here for thousands and years. The stone is made of beautiful palaces and monuments. And even Petar and Karadjordjevic ordered a monument on the Avala, which Meštrovic was working on from the Brač stone. And there's never been a problem, not even during the Austrian-Hungarian or other states, there was no problem with this site of this first-class stone. There's never been any loss. Now after this or this in our Croatian state, here after 20 years of conversion and crime in privatisation, after the thefts that followed by the administration of dubiosis is about 150 million kunas and someone is in a hurry to go bankrupt as soon as possible. So to do that, it's either used or abused by special police. As no one hurried, as my predecessor said in the contract, to enter the company, both DORH and USKOK and CRIM police, on the basis of reports made by the employees, workers and the firm delivered to the competent institutions of persecution, repression and justice, and that no one at all cared to quote you, to test those applications and to establish the truth about the business of the Adriatic administration. It is true that yesterday we were in Borovo Selo to mark a tragic death, in fact it was the execution of 12 Croatian directors. And it is true that 100 metres from where it is marked was hung by a flag with red, blue white colors, and the Croatian flag was folded. And that none of the interventions or ordinary police intervened. It was just yesterday. 300 meters away from where we laid the wreaths on behalf of the Croatian Parliament yesterday is a monument to Vukasin Šoškocanin. It is the same as if the Americans built a monument to Osama bin Laden, so to the terrorist, and for years the Croatian police have not intervened, nor the special, nor the Croatian state and these authorities, regardless of the government, whether they are HDZ or SDPs. And on Croatian workers on the island of Brac, it is good that the army, rocket cannons, occupation of the island of Brac was not used. It's embarrassing and sad what's going on, and I have no words to express this situation that has arisen. Instead of putting those who are responsible for this condition in handcuffs, instead of having these people with blistering hands who shed not only blood as Lesar said, but also sweat because we know what work is like with stone. Here's the situation where the employees, the workers, are surrounded, surrounded by the intervention police, waiting for arrests, being brought into dozens. I'm really afraid this situation, no matter what the calm, relatively peaceful situation, has ended both Dalmatia and KIO Orahovica and Kamensko and everyone else. All right, you got it. [[/Intruder President: Please! Then everyone's gonna break time like that. Please, here's a minute.]] Yeah, when she turns her drink upside down so Greece won't be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6072	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. MP and Croatian Parliament Vice-President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6073	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I want to say what you probably all support. The government must never, nor in any crisis situation, train strictness in a democratic state. Yeah, yeah, he can't train hard work. It's us, I'll talk about the government I ran. We have had many crisis situations both with protests of peasants and with, of course, protests of workers of Željezara Split, Salonita etc. But we didn't solve these crisis situations in such a way as to send an intervention or any other police force. In the case of Željezare Split, for example, we in the government and myself personally as Prime Minister then, together with our colleagues, the economy minister, the other ministers talked, talked, looked for solutions, talked about difficulties, looked for and found solutions. The example for that, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP that you're smirking is Željezara Split. So is Salonite. We've also found good solutions. Remember TLM, the crisis situation with TLM, which is why we passed a special law, we stood behind it despite the crime that was going on, we said let it be left to resolve the judiciary. We are in favour of fully respecting the rule of law and making decisions of the courts. But we're also for open dialogue. We are safe and I am sure that this crisis has occurred primarily because the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows no interest in social dialogue, no interest in talking to social partners, especially workers. The example for this is, ladies and gentlemen, making decisions last week on a drastic increase in electricity prices, gas prices without the decisions of the Economic and Social Council. On the side of HERA, but the decision to further hit every citizen and every citizen had to be discussed by the Economic and Social Council. This was also to be discussed by union representatives and employers. Instead, we have certainly received government decisions, prices have been increased, we will continue to follow price increases and we will probably again in response to why this is happening, as well as the answer to why, for example, some institutions have appointed persons with powerful accusations, with first-degree rulings and for that we have, or journalists, in front of a meeting of the Government a response in terms of shit events. This certainly was not translated by any television in Croatia, perhaps for those who did not understand what the first vice president actually said and how he commented on the government's decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore asking that in this problem again as the last time the crisis was resolved, a crisis related to the milkman's protests and their legitimate demands, when it was addressed by the same intervention police, or by police action at a deaf time of night as it was on Brač, we are asking that the personal prime minister be directly involved. The prime minister must intervene in cases like this, the prime minister must speak. We ask for the Prime Minister to receive the workers of the Adriatic, the personal prime minister. The fact that the police minister will come or won't come for us is quite the same, but we ask that social dialogue be opened at last. The government has been counting many days in which it has shown that it does not want to talk, that it does not want to listen, and that is much more important that it does not want to hear. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is therefore asking for the Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic to come to the Croatian Parliament, the cabinet meeting has just begun, when it is over, to take a few steps, to come here before the Croatian Parliament and we want the Prime Minister to explain to us personally that in what steps both this and all the other problems that are being accumulated day and night in the Republic. What we also strongly support is the fact that there have been errors, that there has obviously been crime in conversion, that is, in the cases we are talking about, but it has to be dealt with by the competent institutions, and just the past government has made it possible for the conversion of crime not to become obsolete, we have proposed to the Croatian Assembly to change the Constitution in which we have clearly indicated that the transfiguration of crime is not only out of date but that it must and can be prosecuted and of course punishable, and that all those who have made it into crime, i.e. in corruption must be punished in such a way that all property is taken away from them. We've passed a special law on that. So, Mr. President, I ask you to make a request on behalf of HDZ representative Prime Minister Milanovic to come to the Croatian Parliament and address us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6074	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6075	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, I'll say it the same way, with the police clearly not on the workers. There is no need to train strictness, Mrs. Kosor said. We've seen how strictness has been trained on these streets in access to the city, the Old Town, or I don't know the square of St. Mark before, say, a year ago. I have to admit that I don't know all the details and I really agree that it might be best to invite someone from the Ministry of the Interior to really explain to us all the reasons for this intervention that I clearly don't approve of. In parallel with this, may the gentlemen also present themselves to us with a way to privatise the Adriatic. I think that's exactly the kind of privatisation that's causing the problem. The people say Bruno Oresar is the sparring partner of the late president who regularly lost in these matches, the prize for losing those matches by Jadrankamen and the Split Uzor. It doesn't have to be true, but that's what the people say. Now we can think of whatever we want, but also the Adriaticman with 300 employees at this time in these economic circumstances can hardly survive in a country where nothing is done, where it is not invested, where it is not invested. However, either way, the police are not on the worker. We're reading on the portals today that 200 officers came to Brač, I'm talking about the intervention police, that they're going through houses, that they're arresting union leaders. I can't believe it's just happening because this isn't the year or the '41s. Not in '48. On the other hand, we have one bankruptcy procedure, and the court must also arrange these relations. A man asks himself why in the same way we did not all rebel in the '90s when there was a takeover not only of the Adriatic but of a whole series of other business entities. Jadrankaman didn't privatize this government, I assume the government wants to save at least that substance of the Adriatic. The faster the bankruptcy, the better the bankruptcy will be, whether someone admits it or not. The question is, can 300 people survive under these circumstances? It's better to go back to work 100 than just not come back. 300 people can hardly survive, 100 could probably work. It's hard to believe some inscriptions now "red police" beat workers, etc., etc. Maybe it's just as true as someone here mentioned earlier that UZOR and the Adriatic were the core of building this hotel system in Novi Vinodolski cca 150m euros where the funds were received from Hypo Bank, so the substance of one company and... so that another could liven up and eventually we have the failure of both the hotels and the UZOR and the Adriatic. Perhaps it is this system of hotels in Novi Vinodolski that causes the collapse of both the Adriatic and the UZOR in Split. On the other hand, we all agree that the intervention police are not a problem, the problem is that they issue warrants for the use of the intervention police. But the problem with all the problems is privatisation in a Croatian way that started out there in '92, '93. A year. when we're going to discuss this review, and we have constitutional provisions that speak of the non-depreciation of these proceedings. Why hasn't the agony of a Adriaticman been resolved before? And for the last time, not to the police on the workers, not by force to the employees, not by intervention to the locals of Brač, but we also need to understand that the rule of law has to work. Clearly, there is a need to discuss but legal order when it comes to respecting the law on bankruptcy should also be respected. It is possible by the government to help the stone down on Brač to make that Adriaticman survive, to somehow get the workers back to work. Maybe not everybody but I want to believe that most people can get back to work. We speak or are said to be running a new investment cycle by the state weighing 1.8 billion kuna means investment in road construction, construction I don't know housing and so on, so there may be work here for the Adriaticman, but as things stand, I'm afraid there might be less work for both the Adriatic and the Kamen Pazin, and for some new entrepreneurs who are about to try the stone business. All in all, to conclude, not with the police on the workers, to talk, to try to get as soon as possible to the interior minister to simply give us a review of the events on Brač.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6076	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6077	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, we in HNS are very concerned about the future of the company in which they work, and precisely because we are aware that if the Adriaticamen does not function as a company within the framework of the law of the Republic of Croatia, it will lead the company to so many problems that it can expect it to eventually disappear. And it is entirely a guilty idea offered by some colleagues here that the state did not engage and that it did not participate in the talks on helping to finally introduce order in this company, or that this company through privatization of the settlement of old debts, and now let the part that binds itself to crime because crime is likely to be solved by someone other than the Ministry of Economy, to settle it through the State's Attorney's Office or through the competent institutions. So what we have information from the state is on more than one month of talking to both the unions in the Adriatic and the bankruptcy manager, individually and separately. With one single appeal to put their heads on the pile to get into the bankruptcy manager and to finally determine the real state of things in the company. In fact, it is very difficult to expect that such a company with such dubiosis will have access to fresh capital and save such a company without knowing that during some time a new skeleton from the closet and some new dubiosis under which the Adriatic is under. So it's necessary to get into the bankruptcy manager as soon as possible. We have laws that know how it works and if it doesn't happen at the most recent time, then it will be a really big problem for the people who work in that company. We at the HNS believe that there is a chance and that the opportunity of workers and trade unions should be reasonably accepted. The state in this case is acting according to the laws. Of course, the assessment of the competent ministry in this case is the Ministry of the Interior in which it should react when it is actually preventing the state from operating according to the law, and this is the situation in which it reacts and acts. Of course, we are not for any use of force and that we are not for inappropriate intervention that would potentially have any more serious consequences. The concern of some colleagues here about the Adriaticman and their compassion, it's especially, I love it when some are compassionate. Namely, no bills are paid out of compassion, and compassion is not living. She's welcome as a human relationship, but in these specific cases compassion doesn't pay the bills, unfortunately. And we know how problems have been solved, just as compassionately, with some kind of long conversation in a way that they haven't really been solved. They haven't gotten rid of each other in years. And now there's the miracle of coming to power for the Kukuriku coalition all these problems suddenly collapse. I have a personal feeling, and we at the HNS club are trying to create an atmosphere of chaos, trying to destabilise even the state, which are very irresponsible politically. And this government is just trying and I believe that it will be successful to save what is to be saved after all these years of destruction, negotiating business under the table, robbery and everything else that is going on, which we are witnessing in trials against a party that has ruled for almost 20 years in Croatia. That's why these kinds of compassions are at least inappropriate in this place. The past of Jadrankamen, its owner, administrations could be very much talked about, and colleagues who are very compassionate I believe they know that the main reference of this owner who has become the privatisation of our businesses among other Adriatics and other companies in Croatia is that his main reference was that he played a good tennis game, not knowing who he played tennis with. Why didn't it work out all these years? Maybe we could ask some of them who are sitting here today in the Parliament. Maybe they'd have an answer. But they talked for a long time and solved it under and over the table in a variety of ways. At this point, this problem should be dealt with immediately and urgently by law, the applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia, and it is the position of the CNS to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6078	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6079	In the SDP, we regret that Jadrankamen and his workers have found themselves in this problem in which they are, and it is certain that no one cares when the future of people working there is questionable, the future of their families and the incomes they will have tomorrow. But we in the SDP believe that the best protection for workers to operate, because the problem of the "Jadrankamen" isn't since yesterday, he's been sneaking around for years, it's been quiet for too long, too many things have been pushed under the carpet, and on us here today, the day after tomorrow, because of the accumulated problems in the Republic of Croatia, it's to look for solutions and a way out of such a situation. I'll just remind you that we had a little over two months ago almost similar or identical story, and it was about the DIOKI worker. We also had a request here to talk, to come to the prime minister about the situation in DIOKI, and then here we said that problems should be solved and that all together as representatives of this House we help solve problems rather than politicize. And we have clearly said here that the government is working on this problem because similarity exists, and DEOKI and Jadrankamen are private companies and that the government is working on it and the problem is largely solved in DIOKI. It just took a little patience, a little will and a little contribution. As for the "Jadrankamen", I think we all agree that the decisions of the institutions must be implemented here and here and in this case today, based on the court's decision by the police to assist the bankruptcy manager to enter the administrative building. Of course, everyone has the right to express their dissatisfaction, whether because he is this bankruptcy manager or someone else, but the fact and experience that we have behind us is at least about this government, the Croatian government to solve problems, not to push them under the carpet, and in that way, the future problems that are coming, and we believe and expect that they will be because things will not be solved overnight, we will solve them in such a way. There's no need to, we're talking about the abuse of the police because I think the police are doing their job at this point with a court order and in their legal powers, and in the end we're going to have a chance for all those who think directly to ask the 3rd item of the agenda of the current session, the Home Secretary's report. Therefore, the minister will be able to say directly, plainly and openly all those things that neither I nor anyone else in his name or in the name of the Government answer. What I'd like to say in the end is, let's get our heads together and try to solve problems together, make a contribution to solving these problems because of the same workers we swear to. It's our way, I believe it'll be your trip tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6080	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6081	... Arrested. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] They arrested because they fought for their rights. How can someone think it's politicizing the problem because we bring it out here? We should shut up or get out on the road and scream in the square. So that's why we're in the Parliament to bring these problems out. And he says his colleague's problem is solved, so he'll get rid of it overnight. The way they get rid of each other overnight, they're seeing each other tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6082	And correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6083	I'm correcting the assumption that the DIOKI problem has been solved. Only one salary has been paid, and in the meantime, INA intends to suspend the production of ethanol, which is the basic raw material for DIOKI. That's how he's solved. Compare DIOKI and Jadrankamen, Jadrankamen does not produce roses but uses a concession right on mineral raw materials, which is a state interest, regardless of the company's private property.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u6084	Thank you. Here is the end that, as chairman, I say that I think it is legitimately the right of representatives clubs to seek a debate on current problems in society, especially when it comes to workers' problems, but I must stress that the growing demands in this Croatian Parliament are for ad hoc debates in the Parliament, on issues that fall primarily within the government's jurisdiction, but not just the Government. Club representatives have made their views known, suggestions on how to deal with this issue in an operational sense. Thus, the Croatian Labour Club proposed to change the order of points, HDZ to come to the Prime Minister and explain the situation, and the IDS to explain in the presence of the interior minister the conduct of the police in Brač. So the interested clubs made their views known. They will be able to complete them after discussing police affairs, which is on the agenda today. That concludes the presentation of the club representatives and we're going to the agenda point. We go to the agenda point, this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 70. The proposer of the law is the Government. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, Deputy Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7233	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. With previous thanks for the previous discussions on committees. In short, I would like to present changes and additions to the law. In the shortest lines of these proposals, we introduce a slightly clearer definition of the competence of individual institutions as regards the implementation of this Act itself, following its adoption as well as the energy efficiency policy, in which we define the Ministry of Economy clearly as the competent authority for the overall implementation of the energy efficiency policy in Croatia, and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund which plays a significant role in this section is given the responsibility of financing the measures themselves defined in the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan. In addition to these amendments and additions, we integrate issues of energy inspection of buildings as well as energy certification of buildings and let me stress that a unique methodology of energy audits is in place, and the authority to issue powers to persons who can carry out energy checks is assigned to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. We also introduce as a novel and commitment to independent control of energy audits as well as issued certificates with the intention of naturally improving the quality of those services. Also due to the launch of the Energy Reconstruction Programme of Public Buildings, the Law provides that the Government will, on a proposal from the competent ministry, also prescribe the procedures for the implementation of energy services in the public sector and thus ensure that without additional budgetary resources, energy efficiency in the public sector is improved while the construction and energy services industry is launched. It is also not less important in the segment of harmonisation with the legal acquis of the European Union that what we introduce with amendments and additions is the obligation to apply for ecodesign that extends to all energy-related products, not just those that directly consume energy. In this way, those products that meet fully European standards in accordance with Directive 125 of 2009. Years. It's final. We believe that the amendments and additions of the law, i.e. the proposal, will improve the implementation of the energy efficiency policy in Croatia and contribute to the achievement of the energy saving goal. In conclusion, I would like to thank, in particular, the debate held within the Committee on Economic Affairs as well as the Committee on Spatial Arrangements relating to the more precise and clear definition of Article 20(5) relating to the implementation of the procurement procedure, i.e. the definition of the addressability of the law in terms of the public sector. This debate certainly has led to some improvements that I believe will remove perhaps some of the ambiguities in the interpretation of that article that have occurred so far, and therefore I would like to thank you specifically for the debate in these two committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7234	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? He does. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7235	Thank you, Mr. President. So let me get this straight in the shortest lines. You received a report from the board today morning on the benches. Since the Committee on Economy held its fourth session today, it began on 18 April and therefore considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption with the Final Bill. Within the meaning of Article 67 of our Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered the proposed law as a parent working body, and in respect of the views of the interested working bodies as well as the letter of the Association of Cities which addressed this Assembly with its proposals after the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of the vote of 6 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this Act. Likewise, he said something about this introductory and respected Deputy Obradovic also proposed an amendment to Article 20. Paragraph 5, which is therefore proposed by the Committee to read as follows: "The Investment Energy Sector Monitoring Centre shall conduct public procurement procedures for energy services on behalf of and on behalf of budgetary and outside the budget beneficiaries of the state budget. Other public sector entities may authorise the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre to carry out public procurement procedures for energy services in their name and account. When carrying out public procurement procedures for energy services, the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre shall be considered a central procurement body within the meaning of the rules governing the area of public procurement. Entities on whose behalf and account the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre are carrying out public procurement procedures for energy services are compensated at the centre of the cost of public procurement." The proposed Article shall specify precisely the public sector entities for which the centre is necessary to carry out public procurement procedures for energy services and those who may authorise it. The obligations and competences of the Centre for the Monitoring and Business of the Energy Sector and Investment as well as cost coverage shall also be defined more precisely. This amendment allows units of local self-government to continue to decide on their own investments in the energy domain and does not exclude the possibility of units of local self-government professional assistance, i.e. trust to conduct the tasks in question at the centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7236	Thank you. On behalf of the board, is anyone else answering? No, I don't. Then we move on to a club debate. The first word has a Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7237	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few minutes of explaining the position and opinion of the Croatian People's Party on this bill and on amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act. Here, as the title itself says, it is actually an update and correction of the existing Energy Efficiency Act, which was adopted in 2008. Certainly also because of the need to bring legal matter into line in the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, but certainly also because of perception and the need for energy as a resource on which everything rests, we manage rationally and responsibly. Of course, every law, including the one that was passed in 2008 after three, four years in transport, shows certain shortcomings. Of that, he was not trusted by any law, and they could almost bet that no law had ever been passed that had not seen at least a small change after a few years. That's quite clear. In particular, there is a need to correct this law when some new ambitions are seen, or perhaps more prominent ambitions to increase energy efficiency in the Republic of Croatia. Now why? Energy is an extremely important, fundamental category in every society, a resource without which almost nothing can guarantee competitiveness or the existence of an economy. Without the country's energy stability, the return of production that we all want, the elements of the standard of living of citizens, the normal functioning of society, and the fact that Croatia is not great with energy. We are importers of all kinds of energy, it in the world on the world market records a steady trend in price increases. Unfortunately, this also conditionaled on making an ugly decision recently by the Croatian government, most likely one of the most difficult decisions it will make in the mandate, and therefore the Government, and also this Parliament is obliged to provide assumptions and a legal framework for rational management. When government ambitions include the launch of a serious investment cycle which, of course, entails job creation, so much such intention should be welcomed and supported. Energy consumption in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere at 14% of GDP, which best speaks about the seriousness of this issue and which shows us mathematically how much savings in this area could actually have at the level of the functioning of public administration, or local self-government, how much they could contribute to the competitiveness of the economy, and by applying to the citizens themselves, opening up opportunities for citizens to contribute to savings and improvements, long-term improvements, standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What are the important changes to this proposal on amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act? In any case, decisions have been taken to ensure the serious implementation of this programme because, when you read the criminal provisions in the law in relation to those proposed in the amendments to this law, it is then evident that this proposal on amendments and additions to the law ensures discipline in implementing energy efficiency measures because it does not include more rarely in that chain and in that system than it does those responsible for the implementation. It is also lost and eliminated and double-viewed facilities that have been in place so far. The facilities were examined almost identically to obtain an assessment of the energy efficiency of the individual facility, and then the same examination would be done again in the certification of the energy facility. Eco-design of products is also introduced which obliges future and current producers to place energy-consuming products on the market in a way that avoids irrational energy consumption. It also addresses and defines who is responsible and how to collect data for periodic checks, this law obliges all investors to start an energy certificate immediately upon obtaining the applicable authorisation. A series of benefits and improvements made by this law. How much irrationality we have in the system is known to those who have had the opportunity to participate in executive government, for example at the level of local self-government, chiefs, mayors, mayors, people who have collected accounts and thought about how to settle the bills of heating and lighting, public lighting, public space heating, children's kindergartens, schools. I will give an example – when we took office in the city of Sibenik in 2009 what first fell into our eyes in the budget of the city of Sibenik on the spending side is the breakthrough of the item of electricity costs for public lighting. Of course, this attracted attention and motivated us to a brief analysis where we realized that today, in the Republic of Croatia, public lighting lines are being mounted which are not energy-efficient and are based on technologies that the world is responsible for energy consumption has long been leaving. That is why we need clear laws, clear regulations, because by respecting such laws, we do well for both citizens and society in the long term. Finally, these legislative corrections will contribute to making the Energy Efficiency Act more applicable, more efficient, more successful and create an obligation to act in an energy-responsible way, to act in a rational way. The reduction of unnecessary costs contributes to the energy stability of the Republic of Croatia, the assumption is that the Croatian industry will live not precisely because of the energy problem that was experienced by the Sibenik industry in the 1990s when it went out of order of electrolysis in TLM and then... The alloys produced by strategic raw materials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, they are no longer on the economic map of Croatia, and they are not there because politics was unable to answer the question of how to secure electricity. In order for some of the new workers or current workers not to experience the fate of the workers of the Sibenik TLM, workers of the Sibenik TEF, to behave responsibly in society, to ensure assumptions of industrial production, to ensure the assumptions of the financially responsible management of local self-government units, the public sector, in order to make the economy more competitive the HNS club will support this law equally and the amendment of the Assembly Committee on Economy and, of course, I appeal to all other colleagues that in the spirit of responsible policies do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7238	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7239	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption for Procedural and Content Reasons. We understand and certainly welcome the government's intention to reduce energy consumption in the Republic of Croatia through an increase in energy efficiency of the entire public sector through all these measures provided by law, but we believe that, on behalf of the club, I was talking about it when the Energy Sector Energy Sector Monitoring Centre was established, yes, even then, and this is a confirmation here and now, through the amendment of the Committee on Economy, that the need for a full vision of the development of the energy sector as well as the powers and partial jobs of the individual state body was the Ministry of Economy, any other agencies and funds that follow and participate in the business of the energy sector is clearly differentiated mutual rights and obligations of the individual body. In fact, when the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre was established, I already said that at the position of the state budget, and within the framework of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, it is intended to set up an Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Agency, which the Agency and for which the funds in the state budget and provided for in the adoption of the State budget should largely carry out tasks which are defined in part by this law and its amendments. Therefore, here is evidence that no urgent procedure was necessary in the adoption of this law, and the amendment tabled by the Committee on Economy, which was proposed in a similar text by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is concerned about the possibility of a centre based in Zagreb deciding on the overall public procurement in the entire public sector throughout Croatia. And it is clear that this attempt and the amendment given by the Committee on the Economy has shown that almost the most important part of the law is intervened with the amendment itself, which clearly violates the integrity of the amendments to this law, and that the Proposer himself accepts the amendment in a certain way. But I believe that this amendment still does not solve all the opportunities that will arise in the business of the public sector primarily in the section relating to budgetary and extra-financial users of the state budget, which are well known both Croatian roads and Croatian waters, etc. all those extra budget beneficiaries of the Environmental Protection Fund, etc. Therefore, it seems to me that, and I will repeat the position of the HDZ Club that there was no particular reason to adopt this amendment and supplement this law, and that I would rather repeat that this law and the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre have also been brought into line with the adoption of the Law establishing a spoken agency within the Ministry of Construction with which only then, the structure of bodies that would monitor an increase in energy efficiency in the Republic of Croatia could then be fully decided. What is certainly to support this is clear, and I said the government's insistence to contribute, through increased energy efficiency, buildings and buildings, to reducing energy consumption and that the whole system is based practically on the Strategy adopted by the Croatian Energy Development Strategy and the Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which both strategies adopted in the mandate of the last government are based on one EU energy policy which set itself three important objectives by 2020. The first goal was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%. Others increase the share of renewable energy use to 20% and increase energy efficiency by 20%. So just by implementing this European energy policy and the strategies adopted by the Croatian Parliament are talking about the need to reduce by 9% by 2016 direct electricity consumption compared to the average energy consumption in Croatia between 2001 and 2005. In order for this strategy to be implemented, we have adopted a series of legislative and sublegal acts that were in order for such energy strategies to be implemented in the Republic of Croatia, and then I would mention that last year we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, in which last year we introduced an independent system of control of energy certificates. So this law goes on, this law degrades that independence in energy certification of buildings and buildings, but I say in 2011 already through the amendment and addition of the Law on spatial planning and construction an absolute system was introduced, an independent system of control of energy certificates. What I also want to remind you, and I am sorry that the Government has not continued or may continue, and we will have such a project or model or legal solution soon here at the session of the Assembly, which is the adopted Green Development Strategy of Croatia, as we called it the green development of Croatia, which is precisely through all possible measures and models going towards increasing energy efficiency in all sectors of business in the Republic of Croatia. And in transport, and in agriculture, and in tourism, and above all in transport, and in construction. So at the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, we have made one proposal for a model of energy efficiency in construction in a way to implement a green construction project where we would allow with favourable loans through subsidisation of interest investment in private and public buildings to raise their energy efficiency. On this trail, we also provided funds through the implementation of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings where part of the compensation that would receive the state budget through the legalisation of illegally built buildings would be directed at subsidising interest on favourable loans which, through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, focused on raising the energy efficiency of buildings. Here I am also calling on the government to continue through this project, which is somewhere on the trail of the model for subsidising state loans, subsidising housing loans, and has already shown excellent success to continue through the realization of this green development of Croatia. I'm going to say a few words about the possibility of being from one place at all, so he's enough personnel teamed up and dressed through a newly established Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre to enable the realisation of this law. I don't think it's a good solution either, which the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction has stated in its amendment that from one place, the centre manages public procurement in the territory of Croatia. I think that this is further centralisation and that all extra-account funds are able to clearly realise this project with their own administrations and that this means further teaming the centre itself, further costs, and I say until an energy efficiency agency and renewable energy sources are established, it seems to me that it is doubtful then the position and the center itself. Finally, I must point out that through the collection itself that has been on the scene in the Republic of Croatia for the past few months, from the collection of all energy, electricity and gas, then clearly and fuel, and then by increasing VAT, there will be additional burden on the standard of our citizens and that, as we have heard by the finance minister, the revenue from excise duties is reduced in the state budget due to the reduction of fuel sales, that citizens themselves will contribute to reducing energy consumption in the Republic of Croatia. So, if I may conclude, I said I don't see the reasons for the urgency of this process, I see no reason to define and address the issue of efficient use of energy due to the reduction of energy in direct consumption through the emergency procedure. The reason for the introduction of eco-designs and the invitation to the EU directive was not enough reason to support the urgency of the adoption of this law, the more the introduction of eco-designs for energy-related products could be introduced in a month when we could fully discuss this law and the government's vision and how to fully resolve the increase in energy efficiency in direct energy consumption. In conclusion, therefore, by respecting everything the Government wants and by this law to solve for the reason I cited by the HDZ Club, it cannot support such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7240	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7241	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. On the first page of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption, it is said that a system of efficient use of energy in direct consumption in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by the Act on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption, "National Journal" No. 152/08. So we already had, to put it this way, some law or we had the law to be more precise, which regulated that matter and finally, these 32 articles were actually amendments, additions to the 2008 law. Now, unlike that 2008 law, I wouldn't want the 2012 one to go undetected. In fact, I want to believe it won't happen. What is certainly the point of this bill is seen here on page 2 of this reasoning, where it is literally said, I quote: "In view of the launch of the Energy Reconstruction Programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will regulate the procedures for the provision of energy services in the public sector and thus ensure that without spending budgets, energy efficiency in the public sector is improved while the construction industry and the energy market are in place." So Croatia, among other things, intends to run, is, more specifically, economically intended to launch and based on this law, more specifically on energy investments. I also agree with what someone here was already saying about this pay phone to citizens on today, meaning 3.5, two days after 1 May, it must be the biggest problem of this collection of electricity, the accumulation of gas, the announcement of even smaller wages in the public sector, etc. Electricity went up 20%, gas went up 22%, VAT went up to 25%. Yesterday I read in one newspaper, in the "Evening List" if I'm not mistaken, that citizens will have to pay a fixed fee of 20.63 kuna for each gas stationed account. That's not how the gas picked up 22. 32%. The electricity bills will not rise 40 as he said, it is not important, but an average of 60 kuna per month, etc. And now we can say whatever we want, but a higher price of gas and a higher price of electricity will lead to a higher price of almost all the products, services in this country. And then someone calculated that only the more expensive gas, the more expensive electricity the average family would charge for at least 1500 kuna a year. To this, if someone adds 2% of VAT and the price of gasoline, then we come to the conclusion that these latest measures will lead to that each family will de facto run out of average salary in 2012. Now, if this all leads to new jobs, it's all going to be okay, otherwise it's going to be a lot more often and the Intervention Police will intervene. But if I don't pull a cat by the tail right now, I won't talk about it. Article 13(7) here states that in the building, part of the building or complex of the building I quote whose total annual energy consumption and water consumption is equal to or greater than 300000 kuna, it is required to install the total annual energy consumption and water consumption system at all measured locations of the water consumption. The same applies to this reconstructed public lighting in a way that, I quote, reduces electricity consumption, meets the other conditions prescribed by the Law on Protection against Light pollution and the regulations that arise from it. In 2009, respected gentlemen in Croatia invested about 40 billion kuna in various investments. In 2010, these investments fell to 20 billion kuna, 2011 also to 20 billion kuna. And it's clear that there has been, that water has reached the throat and that these trends simply need to be reversed. The government is planning to invest 1.8 billion Euros in the new investment cycle. It's a 13-and-a-half to 14 billion kuna circus. And that should mean investment in these government buildings, rebuilding public institutions, facades, good window replacement ok, investments in road construction, energy, several foreign investments. It is also likely to happen whether it is a new building of Pula airport, a continuation of the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon by digging a second pipe through the Učka tunnel, etc. etc. However, what is also important to mention when already behind us in 2011. In 2011, about 25,000 apartments were sold in Croatia less than in 2009. In February 2012 construction works fell by 17.4% compared to February 2011. Analysts are talking about the decline of gross social product for the circus 1%. The IMF was talking about a 0.5 drop. Now they've corrected to -1%. The government is still talking about GDP growth by 0.8%. The 2012 budget is growing because of the larger VAT. exactly what Mr. Bačić said first of all because of the less consumption of oil derivatives in the state budget, they show negative items. Removing from the other side, for example, one pre-tax on cars will bring down the car market. The profit tax is growing because of what's going on. The employers decided those rare ones. For example, one THT draws a profit, but that's hard, it's hard. That Croatia lost or lost 150,000 jobs in three years, and that is true, that this government is not responsible and that is true. And as the poet would say simply roll across the river to go or cross and should clearly run that one investment cycle and return people to old jobs. However, this law can also mean that at the start of the price building will be higher. In the long term, these investments should make the building more cost-effective. On page 23, it is clearly stated here, I quote that the power and gas distribution system operator and the energy operator carrying out the energy distribution activity is obliged to provide final customers with the supply of energy measurement devices referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article at competitive prices, in particular where the energy measurement device is changed, unless technically impossible, and whenever the building is built or reconstructed, establishing a new connection of the building to the energy grid. Now, if I knew who it was, I'd put those devices on the market for this remote reading. However, for the end of only two, three sentences concerning criminal provisions. Gentlemen, we must simply have a measure in everything, even so when we determine punishment. There are 25, 50,000 fines, 100,000 kunas, so I don't quote all those items now. For example, a fine of between 20 and 100000 kuna will punish the owner of the building if he does not conduct an energy inspection of the building and review of the heating and air conditioning systems for which the energy review is prescribed by this Act, or if he does not provide an energy certificate of the building or part of it for sale, rental, etc. etc. Gentlemen, 25 to 100,000 kuna. I mean, I don't know, it's not that small, and on the other hand, keep in mind that there's only one town in Zagreb where we have the right information, but it's often handled by about 30,000 unsold apartments. So everyone should somehow get that energy certificate. If so, I think some here will earn money, but someone will also wear out, and in the end, all that price of that additional new administration could be transferred or transferred to the final consumer. To end what else to say. What about Plomin whether this construction is going, who's even interested in this construction, RVE, Adris, Russians, Turks, what I know. Whether or not the gas is going, whether coal is going, whether the government is willing for the citizens of Labinstina on the referendum to ask if you are for block C on coal, on gas, etc. If Labinjans are for why not air support that 800m-euro investment, which in four, five years will be employed every day by 1,000 people. After that, he will hire some 150 people in a permanent employment relationship that would surely trigger a lot of things. But Rockul also warns that I quote the poet that even the path to hell can be filled with the best or fair intentions, and I dare say that Roccol and the citizens of Picanth life in some way turned into hell. So, the law will pass, it must pass, but the questions are certainly left, and mostly in my court over criminal provisions, around these meters for that energy efficiency, or as they say. I think it should be a little more flexible here, because in the end, if you go to the builders, I think the law will simply come across a bad echo, and the intention certainly isn't, and it can help an economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7242	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Michael Zmajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7243	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, distinguished MPs and MPs. Energy efficiency has been recognised as one of the most important topics not only for environmental protection but also for economic development, investment and sustainable development. The growth rate of total energy consumption is recorded year by year, and this can be attributed to technological progress and increasing social standards. But our energy indicators alarm the lack of available energy in resources and production capacity. The Republic of Croatia is a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which aims to reduce energy consumption by 20% and to increase to 20% the use of renewable energy sources in electricity production by 2020. And in order to reduce energy losses and CO2 emissions, it is necessary to increase energy efficiency in the industry in large, medium and small enterprises, the public sector as well as in households. Given the state of the Croatian economy and the standards of the population of the Republic of Croatia in relation to developed countries, excessive energy consumption per capita is high. We have already heard that Croatia spends twice as much energy per product unit than EU standards and imports more than 50% of energy. Even more than 40%, so most of the energy loss, in the waste consumption of building waste, and 80% of the buildings waste about 60% of the energy needlessly. This poor statistics result from a major energy ineffectiveness and lack of one system, plan, long-term energy management not only in the area of construction but also in other areas such as transport, lighting. So also for consumers in the public and private sectors and in the awareness of citizens. The topic of energy efficiency is more than current in both the European Parliament and the EU. According to EU projections, energy consumption must be reduced by 20% by 2020. So, we are not the only ones facing the problem of achieving greater energy efficiency, all Member States are facing the same energy challenges. That it is not easy for them to find a common solution is also visible in the 1800 amendments tabled in the European Parliament on a proposal for a new Energy Efficiency Directive. This shows that neither EU member states are satisfied with the current level of energy savings. This bill is passed at exactly the right time because it is not too late to change the existing situation, reduce unnecessary energy loss and create savings. The increase in energy efficiency contributes to reducing energy costs, which is very important due to the constant increase in energy prices. Energy efficiency can save us large resources that are spent on energy and on imports of raw materials, which can be invested in new jobs. What we need to take care of is that without investing in the necessary energy infrastructure, it will not be possible to achieve the required level of energy efficiency or create safer and more diverse sources of energy supply for those renewables and not expected economic growth. This bill seeks to remove certain shortcomings arising from the existing Law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption. These shortcomings primarily relate to the unclear division of responsibilities, powers and the issue of supervision which caused problems in the implementation of the existing law. This law clearly defines the obligations of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which include the financing of measures defined in the current National Plan and the monitoring of energy savings achieved in fund user projects. The public sector in all its buildings will have to use the National Energy Management Information System and bring in all necessary data on energy and water consumption in buildings. This proposal extends the subject matter of the law and will now regulate energy checks on buildings for the purpose of certification of buildings, for the purpose of regular inspections of heating systems and building air conditioning systems, as well as energy certification of buildings. In accordance with the requirements of the EU Directive, the obligation of independent control of the energy audit reports of energy certificates issued is also prescribed. And it is good that the power to question energy audits and energy certification is fully given to the Ministry of Construction Affairs. This will lead to more efficiency and action. Currently, construction programmes for the public sector and commercial buildings are being prepared by means of measures to improve energy efficiency. In this year, about 500 buildings are planned to be refurbished, and will first start with the renovation of public buildings of the Republic of Croatia, primarily hospitals and homes for children and buildings owned by units of local and regional self-government where focus will be placed on schools and kindergartens. As part of the two Croatian government programmes financed by the UNDP and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 1500 buildings, an energy review has been carried out. As regards the renovation of buildings, it is indeed necessary to stress that energy efficiency in building is a priority for achieving greater efficiency and reducing primary energy consumption. In view of the launch of the Energy Reconstruction Programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe procedures for the provision of energy services in the public sector, thereby ensuring that without spending budgets, energy efficiency in the public sector is improved while the construction industry and the energy market are in place. The ecodesign requirements of products will also be extended to energy-related products, so to all those that in any way influence energy consumption. This proposal also lays down infringement provisions for legal and natural persons as investors unless there is an energy certificate for the building, and for the owners of the building in the event of an energy review and a review of the heating and air conditioning systems, the other criminal provisions are harmonised. All these sanctions will further motivate debtors to implement the provisions of this law. In total energy spent in the Republic of Croatia, households participate with more than 30%. This data shows that raising citizens' awareness of efficient energy consumption is one of the basic conditions of economic and social development in Croatia. The model for developing the energy sector and increasing energy efficiency must be adapted to the needs of the Republic of Croatia because there are no unique solutions. There are no unique solutions in developed EU Member States, solutions that are applicable in each of them. The adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on the creation of savings and on the development of the economy together with existing programmes of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning and will increase the number of employees, production, and contribute to the achievement of the objectives and climate policy. With this bill, the Government implements that part of its programme relating to energy efficiency projects and demonstrates its responsibility in achieving a reduction in energy loss, reducing energy consumption, protecting the environment and encouraging all consumers to achieve energy efficiency. That's why the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7244	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7245	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, exactly in his previous speech, a colleague spoke about how both the EU and the EU institutions, the Commission, Parliament and all the others are very hasty and bile discussing how to secure those 5 times at 20, so in 2020, if it is said twice twenty, twenty, twenty ate and then 20% of the energy from renewable energy sources, then carbon dioxide emissions by 20% lower, and the reduction in energy consumption by 20%, so 5 times 20 is some goal or plan of the EU, so on that occasion I take advantage of the fact that the last debate was about how gas and oil from shale is produced, where the United States is far away from technology, and we still don't talk about it, let alone apply. The EU also discusses the ecological standards of gas and oil production from rock slates. But, well, on some other occasion, because we decided to generate energy from some sources and, among other things, through coal thermal power plants, which I do not personally consider to be some kind of venture of something that is good, because then where it is planned, and this is in the area of Istria, tourism, ecology and all that Istria does to Istria and tourist destination. It is true that this bill is actually a law on efficient use of energy in direct consumption, in fact it is a law that prescribes and tells us about possibilities and ways and ways to achieve savings, to save energy, both in households and in buildings and public institutions. So this actually imposes a new regulation, one of the norms that have been given the mark in P.Z.E.'s legal proposal. Therefore, the law which is in line with the directives, recommendations and other EU acts. But when we look at these recommendations then we come to the knowledge and this law when we read that it's something we haven't had before, which is the energy issue as it says here, I would call it a testimony. He has a Croatian word that can replace the certificate completely properly. Then on energy audits of buildings and on energy reports to be provided to the ministry or the Ecology and Energy Efficiency Fund. It is also true that Croatia imports 50% of energy, imports. So that means that when we look at gas and oil alone then we need to know that oil from domestic sources is at 40% of the amount represented in the production of oil and oil derivatives, and we have even more than 40% of the gas, and that figure goes up to 60% from domestic sources somewhere. Even so, when prices are calculated, and in recent months and days it has been very current since the gas prices have increased in recent months, we still rely on the Mediterranean market, although the oil from Djeletovac and our domestic sources is 40% domestic. So these sources are not dependent on the Mediterranean market, but are domestic sources and we can form the price of that oil ourselves. The 60% that's being imported, maybe we can't work on them like that. However, from excise duties that followed a clear increase in fuel prices and gas prices, it is clear that the state budget is being filled. I'd love to see those resources filling the state budget by increasing energy prices, and now that fuel's gone up long ago, skip that psychological, we're constantly increasing psychological barriers by 10, so there'll be 15 kunas, I guess, psychological barriers. So 2 euros which is nowhere in Europe or on the Mediterranean market. I would like, instead of already burdening the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with such high prices of derivatives, and wages are not European, but Croatian, that these coins focus on production capacities for energy production. Someone here mentioned before me that it was 13.5 to 14 billion kuna, so 1.8 billion euros that should be invested in energy but also said in road construction. Can Croatia implement this 20-20-20 programme by 2020, so 20% of renewable production, 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions and 20% reduction in consumption? This legislative proposal primarily refers to this last item, thus reducing consumption. I would be much more pleased if we were to discuss here how we could achieve that first item on renewable energy production of 20% of renewable energy. I believe that our citizens are already, a large number of citizens are very aware of how to save energy and then these recommendations issued by the Energy Efficiency Centre on reducing energy consumption where we spend it and how to save it, how to increase the efficiency of heating, then the installation of floor, ceiling, wall heating, space ventilation, windows which and how, heat bridges, insulation of external walls, thermal insulation of roofs and floors, green roofs, etc., in our citizens, they are quite well informed about it. However, whether they can from their private pockets, and it is said that 30% of energy is spent by households, can they invest on their facilities what is recommended here, in a situation like this. It's questionable and very questionable. It is said that the implementation of this law will cost nothing, that there is no government spending, but I am warning from this pay phone several times already, and I am trying to say that exactly the state should and could because it eventually returns to the budget, co-finance just in the construction and private facilities of objects so-called. saving energy and energy-generating facilities, whether it's solar energy or some other kind of energy production. Croatia is located in southern Europe, there are many sunny days and there are enough, even with us in Slavonia, although the Mediterranean has opportunities to install such devices, so I would say, by which every household, every household, and with the support of the state and the Energy Ecology Fund and energy efficiency build a house that has at least part of energy and energy production from its own sources. But that's not what we're talking about here. This is therefore a law which exclusively provides and which considers the possibility of saving energy, but if this household, any household has its own source of energy, whether it is saving energy, or energy produced from hydrocenters, lush oil, wood, etc. Yeah, and there's still no suggestion, nor does anyone think of stimulating, encouraging and encouraging anyone who builds and a new house, I don't have to talk about them, to encourage and monetary incentives to install or install such solar cells to produce electricity. This law lays down penalties for all those who avoid energy audits, for those who do not have an energy certificate, for those for whom an energy report cannot be submitted. There are therefore recommendations for saving energy or, as they say, the exact efficient use of energy. But I am saying, we still have no guidance or plan to increase the production of energy in Croatia, and in particular how to increase and reach the 20% that the EU has recommended. 20% of the energy produced from renewable sources, starting from these sources that I was talking about, so sunlight, windmills, but also wood biomass, which is rich in the Republic of Croatia, which is a surface coverage of the forests 40%, and forests are renewable if we take care of them and do not cut down the militia and without control as it seems in many cases, that I do not now list which cases individually, so far. The HDSB Club will continue to consider all these items in this legislative proposal, and until the vote, we will decide whether or not we are abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7246	Thank you. We've finished discussing the clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7247	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what my colleague said on behalf of the HDZ Club, I also think that this law, I will not support it as well as the club for procedural reasons, but also for some of the essentials that have already been laid out on behalf of the club. Of course, at the club and I personally believe that all measures should be taken for the efficient and rational use of energy, as well as those of the mandatory European directives should be integrated into domestic legislation, as well as ultimately good practice European. But that's why the first procedural reason, or emergency procedure, is why we shouldn't have owed it. It's precisely so that some of the objections or possible improvements that we bring here in the debate could be incorporated into the final text of the law. After all, we also see from the transitional provisions that the emergency is not so great because after we pass the law here by emergency procedure, the ministers, the two ministers responsible for six months will think and write their regulations, and then another year after these regulations enter into force, some technical proposals for eco design will be made. So mostly for this job from this law it will take us about a year and a half, and then I think we could leave this Croatian Parliament for, say, 3 months so that this law goes into another reading, and then you could actually take some notes from this debate and install them into the final text. Of course, all measures should be taken. I think we're going to force energy to save, and I don't think the best energy saving measure is an increase, a drastic price hike, and then we're going to be bombed from the newsstands by the headlines as a spat, not to waste. I don't know how to stop breathing so we don't, so we can pay the directors, so the citizens can pay the directors. But what I want to give a very concrete and quite serious warning in the text of this Law, which is an amendment to the article, so far Article 15, i.e. Article 20, that is, Article 15 of this proposal. In the interview with the applicant, we are also convinced on the Committee today that this Law and this certification are exclusively about the public sector and the large consumers, and probably what the Proposer thinks. But that's not what this bill says here, and so, please, I appeal to the Proposer to streamline legal articles so that all addresses are clear, not to explain themselves in law enforcement. For example, in the article amended Article 20 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Paragraph 2 literally states this text: "The owner of the building, or its specific part, is obliged to have an energy certificate prior to the change in ownership, rental, lease, or lease of the building, or its special part." By reading this provision, this is how it arises, and at the end of the law, sanctions amounting to 10 and 20,000 kuna, respectively, if that owner does not have it. It turns out that the everyday owner of any real estate, so the underdogs, the garrisons, anything if he wants to place that property on the market, must first obtain an energy certificate. The promoter says that this is not the case, because it applies only to large consumers, public buildings, but then it should be written in law. It might be Madam Deputy Minister's decision to make it clear in Article 1 of the existing Law that this Law applies only to large consumers and only to owners and users of public buildings who are then obliged to have those certificates. But Article 1 is not, the existing law is not clearly established enough. And this is how it really confuses us, because the questions of many and my colleagues of lawyers and of us when we read this article were being asked whether it meant that the landowner, or the court, would have to at the time of the sale, in the implementation of the purchase contract and the energy certificate in order to prove that the seller had it, or who would be on the market to control whether there was a certificate or not. I certainly agree that such a single certificate will very much regulate the market because any potential tenant will, of course, prefer to rent an apartment or property that has a certificate from which it will come to consume less energy, etc. Or that apartment. It is not illogical for us to think, that is, our interpretation and understanding of this amended article, paragraph 20. In the context of the whole law, including the reasons for the law because it says that these amendments to the law, therefore define the need to respect the ecodesign requirements of products, thus extending the eco design requirement to all products that affect energy consumption, not only those who spend directly. Hence, my logic was that perhaps the proposer demanded that, at once, 15 days after now, here is now that this Law has been published that all real estate owners must obtain a certificate. So, the Proposer says that's not the case, and then the text of the law should be clearly and well-stimulated. And one more thing. I would also like to draw attention to the drastic changes in Articles 21 and 22 and these articles speak about the implementation of energy review and energy certification, and also about the powers to carry out this review and certification by the current law. The conditions for the authorisation and the conditions for conducting the examination and certification were laid down in the basic lines by law, and were then further developed by the Regulation. This Law changes it in a way that fully exempts it from the jurisdiction of this Croatian Parliament to establish any conditions for the authorising officer, whether for the type of certification, and leaves it entirely to not only, not the regulation, but to the Government's regulation, but to the Minister's rule to resolve what has been settled so far by law. And I think it should remain that this Croatian Parliament determines the basic signs. I have to say, this is about a big certification business. It does not matter, citizens will also be subject to such certifications that they trust these very persons and it is not important to establish the conditions for who can do so and under what conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7248	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7249	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lovrin, I'm glad you've explained a little bit to us, made it clear that this emergency wasn't necessary. But look, I'm curious as to why this emergency was so necessary with an increase in the price of gas, electricity and so quickly. And I really can't get the impression that this price hike is really going to reduce energy consumption to a maximum because people just have to. I come from a local self-government unit where we've put enormous efforts into gasification, creating conditions for here energy and some quality of life to our population. However, they are now in a situation that they cannot do so. No dear colleagues and colleagues are excluded and the use of a petrolite is not excluded. So that model and the recommendation of the first Deputy Prime Minister and 40 impulses, so they don't have dear friends, and 40 kunas for the impulses of many people. Many of my farmers in the country in the circumstances that occurred in the country under these circumstances have no conditions for the minimum standard or quality. And that's why I think this one really agrees with you that this emergency wasn't necessary, but it wasn't necessary and I think it's fatal for our population to increase this energy price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7250	Thank you. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to a statement on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 70. The debate on the text of the law has been concluded and the amendments have been submitted by the Committee on Legislative Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Economy. The representative, or representative of the promoter, is here Mrs Tamara Obradović-Mazal, deputy economy minister, so I invite her to join us. I'd like to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Here you go. The Legislative Committee maybe before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7252	The Legislative Committee, thank you very much. The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7253	Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7254	In view of the fact that the content of the proposed amendment of the Committee on Economy has, in one large part, consumed the proposal of the Committee on Spatial Editing by adopting the amendments to the Committee on Economy in one way and adopted this proposed amendment. Thus, through the amendment of the Economic Committee, this proposed text is also adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7255	Does the representative of the board agree with the explanation of the Deputy Minister? A representative of the board? You agree, thank you. [[Intruder: I agree.]] And the Committee on the Economy Amendment, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7256	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7257	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's for the final bill? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes, 80 votes in favour, 20 against, 11 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the effective use of energy in direct consumption in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. And we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is - a proposal to launch a trust issue for Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. The proposal is proposed by 33 members of the HDZ Club of Representatives. The representatives submitted this proposal pursuant to Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 113 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government was very clear about the proposal. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Madam Vice President, and also on behalf of the HDZ Club, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7259	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. As you can see, the HDZ Representatives' Club has tabled a proposal to launch a trust issue with Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. We cited a few reasons for that shift. What I have to say would be a lot more, but we have singled out what we think is most important and what are the most important messages and our club, but also one major part of the public in the Republic of Croatia. So, first of all, I have to conclude that for Mr Jovanovic, we certainly did not want to give our voice when we expressed confidence in the government and ministers because we felt that our work in the Croatian Parliament, in a way, the inability to open any dialogue, but above all, disrespecting others, were those assumptions which, in our opinion, were enough to conclude that Mr Jovanovic was not an appropriate person for the minister of science, education above all and science and education. We believe that the Ministers of Science and Education of course every other minister and all other ministers must, since they were elected to the Croatian Assembly, all MPs and MPs regardless of what option they belonged to, regardless of whether they are representatives or representatives of the ruling majority or opposition. We also believe that at no time must every minister forget to answer to the Croatian Parliament, to answer to representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, not only the ruling majority, but also to ministers and Croatian governments, ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia who must represent the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic. It is, no matter how much we agree or disagree, always our government, although in my past term as prime minister, I often hear from this side if I said I was headed by the government, if I were prime minister, then they'd throw me away if I wasn't their prime minister. But we at the HDZ Club think that every minister is our minister and must represent the best interests of the Republic of Croatia and every citizen and every citizen. I will state a few reasons why we think Minister Jovanovic is not doing his duty well. First of all in the budget, and we talked about it by discussing the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, for us it is still the Ministry of Sports, and we think that the ministry and the minister spent no time in changing certain words in the name of the ministry, but let it go now, it is irrelevant. So we think the minister, because the minister is the most responsible for the budget he proposes, has fully planned the funds so that the Ministry of Science and Sports can function with dignity and of course within the framework of the law. I pointed out in the budget debate when we decided that wage funds were absolutely sub-planned. According to our assessment, about 350 million kunas. And of course we're going to be asking very much questions about how the ministry and how if it doesn't destroy collective agreements of thought, we're going to meet our obligations. But yesterday, I think, from the mouth of Mr. Linic, Minister of Finance, we get first indications about what the government actually is and then Minister Jovanovic is thinking of doing about collective agreements. So the announcement, we'll go break them, we won't meet them. I'm afraid the 2003 situation could happen when the government run by the SDP also violated unilaterally and interrupted collective agreements and therefore we had a bunch of lawsuits and therefore we had to pay off all those who sued additional billions of kuna from the state budget. So in our opinion, our calculations have been sub-planned to pay. I will also mention through the Regional Development Fund and those funds, i.e. for the alignment of those funds that are planned and which must be planned for example for education, health and fire. And that's where those funds were planned, and that's why Minister Jovanovic had to fight because, of course, if we care about schooling, if teachers and teachers don't get regular salaries, then we'll definitely have chaos in the state. Equally, with regard to higher universities and public institutes, these funds are reduction by 5% because material expenditures, i.e. expenditure on energy and everything without which high schools cannot function. However, we wrote this request before the government made a decision to collect the price of electricity and gas so that this 5% is now not valid. We haven't yet been able to figure out how much of this is actually missing now so colleges, i.e. high schools and public institutes can function because this 5% refers to last year without an additional purchase of the price of electricity and gas. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there is also money missing to cover those alternative programs that the minister has announced regarding religious science for non-religious students. So it's a flat-rate assessment, there's no coverage in the budget, and that's all actually stories for little kids. However, what is really the main reason why we believe that Minister Jovanovic should not act as Minister of Science and Education is that the Minister of Science and Education Mr Jovanovic does not encourage the culture of dialogue, respect, mutual respect, respect for diversity, all that we have built into the Law on Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, and if you want the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly states that we live in a system of parliamentary democracy and that the ministers or government correspond to the Croatian Parliament. That is why I will call the Croatian Parliament and all of us MPs and representatives of the henhouse, and I will quote since the government referred to this allegation, Mr. Minister said "Enough is the hen, return the reputation to the Parliament and to the MPs". So he made it very clear that he thinks this assembly, that he thinks all of us here are chickens and chickens, or maybe just chickens, but we might hear the elaborate later. So, in his reply, the government finds it interesting that the minister uses a "painted style of expression" and says the government in its referencing that the minister did not call Parliament a hen, which of course is not true. It cannot be a picturesque way of expression and it cannot be accepted such a way of expression and such qualifications cannot be accepted when it comes to the highest representative body, but also to any body, any group of people, any group of people making up a body. The minister cannot speak in an offensive way, the minister cannot and must not insult anyone. The minister must, however, defend the rights, reputation and dignity of everyone, every institution and every individual. Furthermore, speaking about the situation in sports or speaking about the situation in football, the minister dared to say the following about the people and officials of the Croatian Football Federation, regardless of what the minister thinks of them, regardless of what anyone thinks of them. The minister has no right to say that the officials of the alliance look in the mirror and spit in what they see. So his message is that those I don't like are worthy of me to spit on them, they're worthy of me to spit on them, to humiliate them, and to insult them. What kind of message is that, ladies and gentlemen, to the students? What kind of message is that to students? What kind of message is that to young people? What is this message of a minister who should be doing I repeat in the protection of everyone's dignity and fight that our young people, our children are raised in the atmosphere of respect, love I dare say and say, respect for diversity and what is the message to those who, for example, fight hooliganism, who fight hooliganism in stadiums, who fight insults? We should all fight insults in the stadiums of anyone because we don't understand it, because it has a different color of skin, all of these are ladies and gentlemen criminal acts, if we are of course correct in interpreting the Law on Discrimination and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also the Penal Code that we, as you know, have amended further and introduced criminal acts relating to those who speak exclusively with language and hate. So, who says that some people no matter who they were or how they acted can and can, because the minister promotes that he can and can. So the minister says, spit on those you don't like, those you despise or those you disagree with, you can spit in your face. It's interesting that the government of the Republic of Croatia in response to our request in no single word, not in a single word, but in no word did it refer to this very allegation of spit, to spit in someone's face, to humiliate someone, to discriminate on someone. And that is why we believe that the government, which is clear from the answer itself, is strongly behind those words, behind those views, behind those messages from Minister Jovanovic. And that's something that ladies and gentlemen should be worried about us and that I'm bringing directly into contact with here's intervention with the Adriatic workers that we discussed at the beginning of today's session. In fact, the minister is obviously fostering this practice of insult and humiliation in his ministry because we heard very clearly that his associate writes that she has had enough of these lazy, sacred cows in the ministry, so she humiliates and insults officials and employees employed in the ministry who carry this ministry, without which no ministry has any, no ministry without officials or officials who do their jobs with dignity and love, who do their jobs without the survival of any ministry, and the co-worker of Mr. Minister calls them lazy cows. Or, for example, a statement by an assistant or deputy, I don't know what more, Mr. Skansija of a great and famous Croatian athlete, whom we all admired, but obviously with the approval of Minister Jovanovic, because Minister Jovanovic never denied it, he never reacted, said publicly, and the government is not saying so in his reply, that those who won gold medals at the Paralympic Games deserve half the money from what is planned for the Olympics who won the gold medals, so healthy athletes discriminate the unprecedented paralympics, people with disabilities, people who have to put forth incomparably more effort, strength, energy, will, love to win the gold medal. For us in HDZ, gold medals won at the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games are equally bright because the Paralympic Games are games for people with disabilities. And the minister's associate clearly says that the Paralympics must get half the money from that money that belongs to healthy athletes. A harsher violation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, I must say, I have hardly met. For several years, we have been systematically fighting for equalising the rights of athletes with disabilities, for non-discrimination of people with disabilities in everyday life. Croatia, ladies and gentlemen, is the third country in the world to sign the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in New York. I had the honor of signing that document on behalf of the government. The fourth country in the world to ratify the document is the largest, strongest human rights document in the 21st century. This convention, which Croatia has accepted, ratified and must implement and clearly says that athletes with disabilities are equal to other athletes, who say people with disabilities are equal and that each state must ensure equal availability and work and employment and political life and political work, but also to sport. Therefore, the fact that Minister Jovanovic let his associates insult and humiliate persons with disabilities, athletes, here I will mention our great King, Mr. King, athletes, defenders, Croatian defender who remained severely disabled during the Homeland War and who first had to fight with himself, had to fight with years of treatment, rehabilitation, had to fight against environmental prejudices and achieve world results. Is his medal, the gold medal of the same glare as any medal or any sport confession of Mr. Scansia? Yes, it is. And this ministry led by Mr. Jovanovic must promote, because it is ladies and gentlemen on fundamental human rights, it is about fundamental human rights that each of us must respect. The fundamental human right, however, I return to the Parliament, our representative and representative in the Croatian Parliament is also that no one offends us, that no one humiliates us, and that no one discriminates against us because of the belongings of any party. This is something that must be promoted daily by the minister or person who is at the head of the Ministry of Science and Education because through this message is being sent to young people, generations who will be sitting in this Croatian Parliament tomorrow, who will be led by the Croatian Government. If the minister and his associates teach them that those who do not like spit in the face, then we will have a generation of future politicians, future businessmen who will lead Croatia in the absolutely wrong direction. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, the fact that Mr. Minister appointed a sports assistant to create a management of 45 people, and so far these jobs have been carried out by 8 employees. I am bringing into context the fact that even the funds for wages and for regular functioning are not fully and properly and fully planned. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Jovanovic, while being a parliamentary representative, wanted to promote himself as a person fighting corruption and crime, I want to point out that I was personally amazed by the fact that he did not respond to the fact that the government wanted and appointed to the Supervisory Committee and... who had a first-degree verdict, and not for a little crime, and he said he didn't see anything problematic about it. [[You don't understand.]] In fact, and silenced the appointment of a person who has the rightful indictment for the head of the Environmental Protection Fund, a powerful indictment, I am certainly not prejudicing the further course of the judicial process, but Minister Jovanovic as someone who wanted to promote himself as a person fighting corruption and crime must react to it in the government and must warn both the first vice president and president of the fact that such a thing is absolutely and completely unacceptable. So all those values for which he wanted to prove himself a representative in the Croatian Parliament have been trampled as a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I think we at the HDZ Representatives' Club think we have to stand up for the same values when we're in opposition and when we're in power. But what we all have to stand up for in political life is not to give up on the fundamental principle of doing this work, which is to respect others, respect others, and always and at all times to tell the truth and to fight for that truth. This is what Mr. Jovanovic did in his work at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports so far, and we suggest that the Croatian Parliament show him no confidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7260	Thank you. We heard the proposal's representative. Would the government official like to take a word? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7261	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I must say that we are sorry to be discussing today and here again some sort of verbal delinquent, therefore, the spoken word of Minister Jovanovic, but it is probably just the continuity of something that happened here when it comes to Mr Jovanovic and when he was a representative. So I'm going to remind you of the precedent in removing immunity for the spoken word that never happened in 20 years because immunity has always protected the advocate for what he says about the Assembly speaker because there is no other mechanism, no other weapon, no political means other than the spoken word. But it is the right of the opposition party to seek the confidence of the minister, to seek the confidence of the government as a whole, but we would be happier to have confidence in what Minister Jovanovic was doing in his ministry, and for that we think he still needed time because it is really difficult to judge someone about the job done in the first four months. But once again, this does not mean that the opposition does not have the right to seek debate in this House and to seek, of course, a vote of confidence, or mistrust of a particular minister. Minister Jovanovic followed a system of education and science which is therefore an extremely important system for us because we believe that as a small country in the EU we must invest much more in the education system than we have invested so far, that our advantage as a small country in a large association is actually in educated people. It is a system in which it is not easy to make quick decisions because any quick solution in that system can do much more harm than good. And we also know that we've wasted a lot of time so far and we don't have much time to wait. It's a system where unfortunately we have all dissatisfied parents on one side, dissatisfied students, dissatisfied professors. So, indeed, a system where we have a lot of work to do and it would be good to talk about what we expect from the system of education and science, to talk about solutions. And I hope that this Parliament will make one step here, and that is to use some debates to clarify the arguments, to look for as many better solutions as possible here among MPs so that we can therefore solve citizens' problems as quickly and better as possible. The government gave an opinion in which we supported Minister Jovanovic. We think he's doing a good job. As for public statements, of course, there are always harsh words, and there are always false interpretations of those who convey our statements. But generally I advocate my entire working life in politics, and so do all of us in the Croatian government, which is that we really have to watch how and what we say because we have to be an example to all of those who chose us, who voted for us. However, we cannot accept that the spoken word can be the reason for anyone’s shift and a lack of confidence. On the other hand, we should have responsibility for the spoken word, but we should also have the morale and awareness of what individuals have done, how damaged Croatian citizens and why we are in such a difficult financial situation today. All we do today is no one's whim to any individual in the government, so no one's personal decision. It's just that we don't have much choice. Or we'll get this country out of crisis, and we can only get it out with rational behavior, saving on all segments. We can get her out of a crisis with each other dialogue with all those with whom it is necessary and I am convinced that all segments in this society are aware that we do not have much choice. Either we save and get out of hiding or we continue to borrow and sink and get to the Greek script which I don't think is in any of us's interest. I hope that this debate will also go through today in a tolerated environment and that we will eventually receive support from the majority for Minister Jovanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7262	There are six and a half minutes left for government officials. Does the minister want it? Yeah. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Well, I can't say I'm glad I'm here today, because no one likes to be in front of a request for his resignation. But at the same time, I'm glad that I'm going to have a chance at what we've done on such short notice. By the way, today's an important date for me. Today is the day of freedom of the media, so I congratulate all journalists on that day and I want them to have a lot of work and to report on how this Parliament works, how this government works, and at the same time today is the day of the liberation of the city of Rijeka, so I congratulate all my Rivers and Rivers on that holiday and I am sorry that I am not with them. Last week I was at the opening of two events that I find very important in order to show what changes have happened and what happens when it comes to the relationship to knowledge and science since the new government was elected. So, I'm going to report today a few times, and I'm not going to look back at what was in the past because that's ultimately irrelevant anymore. We won these elections because we offered a better program, a better strategy, a better vision, and so on for education and science. And what's done is done. It's no longer an excuse for what we do and how we do it. So, I was at the opening of the first night of the book and the tenth science festival. Why does it even matter? So if we look back at these 10 years of the Croatian Science Festival, then I can tell you that 10 years of attitude towards knowledge in Croatia have marked 3 statements. The first "a kilo of brain two stamps", the second "who's yamio, yamio" and the last very famous Parole Index "who has money to pay, and who doesn't have to learn." This is why Croatia today has no knowledge-based economy, nor is society equal opportunities for all. So we are lagging behind the European Union by all indicators of knowledge. All 18% of the working population is highly educated. There are only 2350 researchers coming to millions of people. We single out less than 1% of gross domestic product for science and research, and the doctor of science has 0.67% in the working population. The only thing we are at the top of the European Union is 35% of the young unemployed of whom a large part of the doctor of science 35 to 40 years of age is considering leaving Croatia. It is because of these young people that we have launched a whole series of changes in the system of science, wanting to provide these most qualitative young scientists with a place in universities and institutes. And not how you say to chase 500 professors into retirement. No, we open the door for 500 young scientists. The night of the book reminded me that more often in Croatia, you sleep tightly with a book under your pillow than you wake up the night with a book in your hand learning for colleges. That's why we're according to OECD PIZA research when it comes to reading habits of a devastating 36 out of 65 countries surveyed. You're probably guessing the best is Finland which, by reading and understanding, read at the very top and the most successful European state. That's exactly what the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is working on now. The results of this study said that 27% of students never read from satisfaction, 57% read them just because they have to, 80% say reading is not a hobby, and a quarter is a waste of time. Why am I telling you all this? Well, because these days you could see another survey that says that if we take all of Europe, Croatian students practically hate going to school the most. So this is today the reality of Croatian schooling. Therefore, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which I am conducting, does not make any decisions and will not take into account any serious analysis, broad public debate and consultation with the professional and its interested public. It's a waste of our new schools, and we'll have them. The average school today is 50 years. You can imagine how these schools can be maintained, so we have provided money for a public private partnership project that should allow us to have a shift course very quickly in Croatia. One-way classes will mean that school is more attractive, that children are less missed from school, that they have better successes, that parents are more satisfied, that outside of teaching activities are bigger, and for all of that we have provided money no matter what the budget is talking about, but I'll talk about it later. Innovation, entrepreneurship and intellectual capital are three competitive advantages that distinguish the market from failures, which is what leads to a knowledge society. Thus, the knowledge society is a prerequisite for a society of success, and the quality and successful work of each school and university is the biggest contribution to the story of a knowledge society not only being a steam that has sounded so nice in politicians' speeches for the past 8 years. Some people don't like my statements. My ministerial mandate is not a campaign for a future presidential candidate like it was, I'm telling the truth and I'll keep telling it. Sometimes she'll be brutal, someone won't like it, but it'll be true, the honest state of our society in every part of the resistor I'm covering. In order to succeed in Croatia becoming a knowledge society, but not on paper and in passwords, we had to start from change. Therefore, changes are necessary in all segments of the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. We conduct these changes in the ministry together with all actors of education and education, science, sports through the creation of a common platform for better education, science and sport. Therefore, the culture of knowledge, the culture of sport, the culture of success will also mean the change of Croatia into a healthy society. And that's my ministerial goal. For this reason, they are, for example, The established HAZU expert group, which will develop a whole new strategy for development of education and education, which will work on new laws to improve education, education and science, working groups involved, of course and paralympics, drafts of the Law on Sports and the Law on Sport Inspection, and Mrs Kosor unfortunately spoke falsely, could list them individually, but here is enough...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7264	Minister, Minister, you may report after every debate for 10 minutes, but I'm going to have to interrupt you now because your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7265	I'm done. So here's the same Olympic and Paralympic fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7266	Here's what you'll explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7267	Same Olympic and Paralympic fees. That never, not one official document came out that said that there would be a difference between the Olympics and the Paralympics and when Mrs. Kosor concluded her speech that she was telling the truth here but at the first appearance she showed that she was not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7268	Minister, here's a correction to the incorrect assumption. Dear representative Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the House, reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7269	Thank you very much. I ask you, Mr. Vice President, first of all, to warn the minister that he is not in a henhouse and that he behaves politely. And now he's saying that I'm not telling the truth, and unfortunately he's not telling the truth. But I'm sorry. The minister says we won because we offered a better program. That's incorrect, that's incorrect. Namely, the Kukurik coalition program was hidden, about the program you cheated on the citizens. Namely, you didn't say in the program that you would increase VAT by 2%, you didn't say in the program that you would hit the businessmen very hard, you didn't say in the program that you would increase the price of electricity and gas this drastically, you didn't say in your program that you would bring to the supervisory boards of public companies and administrations exclusively by the likeness of a card colleague, that you would bring people who have first-degree convictions, that you would bring people who have confirmed indictments. You didn't say that because if you said that, I believe that the citizens would have made a different decision. The program you won on could be talked about a lot more, and I might be focusing on those three pay announcements, not crying to you. And as you can see from this very government whose member and minister Jovanovic are announcing the abolition of collective agreements and mass layoffs from state and public services. There's so much about that program.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7270	Here's what I've allowed you to do in 30 seconds. I'm opening a debate. The clubs are up first. On behalf of the IDS club, distinguished representative Valter Bolunčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7271	Good afternoon, everyone. Here we are from the IDS club giving full support to Minister Jovanovic because we believe that in these four months frames, he has been doing well to see the problems encountered in his ministry at all levels, from primary education, secondary, high and sports, and we believe that he has shown by his work so far that he is able to deal with these problems, and with his plans for further development, he gives faith that in this ministry, very important for a society of knowledge will go in a better direction. Of course, it's the right for everyone to distrust the minister, so we also have a proposal for these 33 members of the HDZ Club. I would perhaps look back then on how mentioned and taxing some remarks related to his work one of the first things that is therefore mentioned means that even those who set the example is considered the most important funding. It therefore refers to the reduction in money given in the budget for the Ministry of Science. I think that point is completely illogical and declassified at this point because it's been a few months since the budget and there's been an opportunity to talk about it. So I think this is a reference as one of the most important points of the alibi for some of the other criticisms that they thought were standing. Funding, of course, fell because otherwise, the attitude was that we wouldn't fall into the abyss that we went to if it had to go down everywhere. If we go to all ministries to raise money then it's hard to raise less money. But also in such reduced funding, and one of the consequences is the fact that even in the age of 2005, when the economy was envied, in positive money given to that ministry was not very well directed. But as I said in these situations of the economic crisis, the minister, let's say, 52 million more separated for the schooling of students, means that in principle it goes to that and the social part, but it goes to that and to encourage students to finish their studies regularly. More money has been allocated for international co-operation, which is very important at the moment when we as a state have to allocate a certain amount of money for EU projects, but we also need to attract that money that is based on a lot of it. What may be in the plans is very important and it is one of the very important things, which is together with the Ministry of Construction and Economy, the minister presented a proposal for a public-private partnership in which work on over 300 schools, so to modernise, which is over 6 billion in this year of direct investment. 6 billion in our budget is more than a significant item and not just as a budget what can turn directions towards better than it is also important that this investment is done according to certain rules. So, to look at the regional representation of these schools, to see that students can have the same conditions for schooling in different areas. There is also something that goes beyond, and someone takes it from the wrong angle of looking, I think it's very important, which is that it is done significantly in a way that 500 scientific recruits, or all those who have acquired the conditions in which our country has invested significant money, educated a person to the doctorate of science and invested money, and then released it because the economy as it cannot accept it in its work is a very large cost. So I think it's also a very important item where the minister is working on so that these young people who have sacrificed their time and themselves and education, and in many cases their money could enter a system where learning could return to the welfare of society. Furthermore, the second set of remarks is about certain programming organisational natures, so this is about what we heard just before the Sport Act, it's about introducing a new subject and it's about organising a ministry. I think that, together with his assistants, the minister has well organized in four basic areas, so science, higher education, education and sports, and so far I think that all the assistants, and the minister himself, who is leading those resolutions, are doing well. As far as the programming base is concerned, it is clearly the minister who had the courage to come out a little more to introduce an object of education, health, or to be raised immediately to make it a supplement or a substitute for religious education. But I personally support the minister in this because religious teachings as his name says belong to religious institutions not to public schools. Public schools need more knowledge these students need from health and social education. Furthermore, a strategy has been discussed for a very long time this 4 months, so together with one HAZU working group, guidelines have been developed to develop a science and education technology strategy that will be further developed. So there is one vision of which direction science and higher education should go. In particular, the need to relate to the labour market is highlighted, but these guidelines do not ignore that we have both parts and those branches, such as humanities that cannot be found on the labour market without being ignored. There are also a whole series of other laws that are given in the procedure means the Croatian qualification framework, then we have the Act on Foundation, the Law on Termination, etc. I think it's also technologically... improved work, let's say it's pre-school one-year education that must be had, then it's about electronic enrolments, etc. So a new technology in the work that will certainly help. It is and has already been proposed for public discussion of the laws on science and higher education. I think that's a lot of binoculars. We witnessed that during the past period the last government had written three laws that had come upon the fierce opposition of all communities, among other things, and because of solutions that were not acceptable inside, but also by working on these laws for a long time without the community having the opportunity to manifest themselves. We can say about this law that almost the moment the proposal was made for a public debate. I believe that there are warm elements in it and that it will overcome certain negativity observed in that area. In addition to the strategy itself, when a particular strategy of science is being done, what the minister has shown so far, I think, and it is quite important because he pointed out that even a small problem that arises or illogicalities can be significant consequences. The law on sports, the Law on Sports Inspection, therefore we heard there will be no difference between the Olympics and the Paralympics which is certainly positive, but it is also not the sole objective of the Sport Act. The goal is to separate professional sport from a recreational way of playing sports and to introduce order into sport. If the previous ministers had had the courage and guts to face this problem because the tape that has appeared in our sport hasn't since yesterday then maybe it wouldn't have come to these scenes but it would have been solved in advance. I think the third part that was tied up and that was the talk about the hate speech I don't think really stands, I think it's about one specific way that the minister is expressing himself. So he had this way before when he was in the Parliament, but while someone treats it as a hate speech, I treat it as the minister's wish to locate some problems and not avoid expressing them but rather the desire to solve these problems. The easiest thing would be, then, through some of the problems that exist which are clear to everyone simply look the other way and deal with some small things, but the minister also said through his work in the Parliament he did not say such a type but wanted to deal with these problems. Every one of us has a way of doing it. Maybe someone else would say it another way. Furthermore, I believe that, on the basis of both earlier and earlier situations, it is also related to the minister while he was a parliamentary representative, which is therefore about freedom of speech, this seems to me that this proposal at a personal level has already been directed against the minister, which, of course, is not dear to me and I think he has been declassified from that side. So as much as the proposer thinks of these 7 points or 6 points, however, this one situation significantly reduces the importance of these points. I think they've deplaced this request because it's against a relatively popular and competent minister who's had a pretty high rating and who wants the things that were to be resolved in his ministry to get rid of them, not to cover them up by putting them under the carpet. For this reason, we at the IDS Club will give full support to Minister Jovanovic and we want these plans that he has with economic activity that are related to the restoration of schools and other such institutions related to his ministry but also to his proposals of the law which he has given to the proposal for higher education, different and adopted changes to the laws, let's say that the principal's licensing in primary school and secondary school will continue on that path and that we will come to a knowledge society where a feedback between knowledge and the economy will be needed, because education cannot only wait for the economy to give money but knowledge and education at all levels, not only high education but also secondary education must be able to include much more competence in economic activity to increase economic growth and that the foundation of that part of separation for the economy for the ministry will be greater. And then there'll certainly be repercussions that in a sport that's actually a little bit of money we're going to be investing in, we're going to have bigger results. So, here's the deal, we from the IDS Club are supporting the minister and we hope to make these plans come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7272	Thank you very much, Reverend Boluncic. Just according to the raised tiles, you seem to have made some incorrect allegations. The first will correct the esteemed Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Boluncic, you've made a few incorrect allegations, and I'll make it right for two. First, it is incorrect that the point in the budget is irrelevant, and it is very important, very important for the work of a minister. The minister must provide financial resources for the operation of his system, and this year, as much as 300 million are secured. Meanwhile, they've collected energy, so I'm asking you in a simple way how to ensure the smooth work of schools and higher education. Secondly, what you were saying about the draft law on higher education and science is incorrect. And in the last term, we discussed the draft of this bill and there was a broad debate. It's not true there was no argument, though. Due to the influence of the academic community and the large thematic session of the Committee on Science and Education, the law did not enter into a regular procedure, the law was left to study and work well. So it's not true that there was no debate about the draft.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7274	But the truth is, you're running out of time for this amendment. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Boluncic incorrectly said that during the debate over the state budget proposal, the HDZ club did not voice concern that there was a lack of funds for workers' salaries in science and higher education. Kolega Buljanic has just been president of the club of representatives, Mrs Kosor pointed out that 350 million kunas are missing for wages in science and secondary, primary and higher education. And now I come out of this because I also think that many of my colleagues are concerned primarily about their salaries, and then for projects and new scientific recruits on projects, and if there is not enough funding, there is not enough knowledge in Croatia. We pointed out this, and in our discussions, we said this, and one of these reasons and reason is precisely our proposal to trust Mr Jovanovic today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7276	Thank you. The third amendment to the incorrect allegations will be presented by the distinguished representative Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So a colleague from the IDS said Minister Jovanovic has a specific way of expressing himself and that it is not offensive. It is incorrect because I am asking a fellow question how he would react and would think it was just a specific way of expressing that Minister Jovanovic told him to look in the mirror in the morning and spit immediately on what he sees. I think it's, I repeat, language and hate, intolerance, ail and language and a way of expressing violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7278	Thank you for one warning. A representative cannot ask the MP a question according to our Rules of Procedure. We'll continue the debate on behalf of the clubs. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7279	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the responsibility of the Government of the Croatian Parliament is a fundamental element of parliamentary democracy in Croatia and is therefore entered in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that at least 1/5 MPs can raise a question of trust to a single member of the government or government as a whole, which is a very important thing. It is an instrument used in those situations where the real and otherwise irrevocable reasons that really question the work, credibility and effectiveness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or individual members, have arisen. In the absence of a real argument by the HDZ in the moments of their own intra-party struggles, I imagine that in order for individuals to position themselves as the sharper fighters against the SDP ministers at the Bureau's session and the same party to which a complete divide has occurred between those who are fighting for the presidency, they decide to initiate a procedure for trust or responsibility of the Minister of Science and Education. We will not talk too much about the unfoundedness and the absurdity of the thesis being placed on the burden of Minister Jovanovic because the government has given an opinion that we fully agree with, but to accuse someone who has just taken over the portfolio of financial chaos inherited from the previous government is almost incredible, so if it is also HDZ. In the last 8 years, we can freely say a total of 18 years of all the mandates you have had, the educational system in Croatia has been brought to extremely low branches, and its main characteristics have become disorganised, chaos, material poverty, lagging behind advanced technologies and non-relationship with the labour market. The salaries of educators are too low, and the status of teachers alone is not satisfactory and, of course, that in many people, it destroys every motivation to work in the ministry. On the other hand, young people come out of educational institutions dissatisfied because they know that the education they acquired is not sought by anyone, but ended up at the Employment Service. So we don't have satisfied teachers or students or students or graduate experts or entrepreneurs. What do you call it rather than an unorganized system that doesn't meet its foundations of roles. Well, you see, this government is going to change and break the practice of abandoning the education system. A particular problem is the educational component of the system, or the transfer of true humanistic values to young generations. This has been particularly lost in the Croatian education system, resulting in a loss of ability to identify what is good and which is not so we have more and more peer violence, juvenile delinquency and crime. We have growing addictions, alcohol consumption and drugs, more and more young people spending time in bookies. The harm of it at school is unfortunately not learned, and it should and will during this government. Similarly, they will learn about their own health, which during the past period was a kind of taboo of ideologies, resulting in unwanted underage pregnancy, various diseases, and the lives of young people destroyed. You had no idea how to spend it, but this government will. The HDZ in its own way attributes its mistakes to others only shows its consistency inconsistency, and using this serious instrument for these political goals shows its true character. We therefore call on both you and everything else to question governments in the spirit of parliamentary democracy, but at the same time I ask them to refrain from cheap politics that will not contribute to the progress of democracy in Croatia but rather to the contrary, which will violate the reputation of all political institutions, both the Parliament and the Government and political parties. I would like to remind you that in our past term as a party in the opposition, I want to say the responsible party in the opposition, we were well aware of the situation and we were able to reach out to the instrument of driving the issue of trust because we were also starting a trust issue only at the time when it was indeed the only ultimate solution in the parliamentary struggle. I think it should remind us all together that we did it in October 2008, then the question of trust to the then Prime Minister and HDZ President Ivo Sanader. The reasons were the state's security situation, brutal killings, street violence, hooliganism without adequate response from police and state institutions, the blocking of negotiations with the EU. These were the reasons why we asked for a question of trust. Also in October 2009, the question of trust to the Deputy Prime Minister, member of the HDZ presidency and Minister of Economy Damir Polancec. The reasons were a difficult situation in Croatian shipbuilding, active participation in an affair related to the attempt to take over Podravka in an illegal manner. These were the reasons why we requested the launch of trust here in this House. That's where we didn't even get here, because the court did its part, so it wasn't even the agenda point as far as the Deputy Prime Minister is concerned. So we also asked the question of trust in November 2009 Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Bozidar Kalmeti for crimes in HAC, a poor state of HZ. Croatian citizens today see the situation in HAC as regards the people for whom the minister has been resolutely responsible. And finally, seeing everything that happened before, we also asked the question of trust and the Presidents of the Government of Jadranka Kosor because some things didn't work out, not implementing reforms in the tax system, the state administration, the judiciary, health and social welfare, the government's failure. Those were the reasons. Not to mention, we've also been looking for an investigative committee on the fact that INA and MOL contracts have been contracted. Now we're looking at it in court. We also requested an investigative committee to determine the facts about the purchase of 39 military trucks. I think you know, and the citizens know who the epilogue was. Therefore, these were the reasons why we feel responsible in the interests of both the state budget and the citizens and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia raised the question of trust that government as a whole and individual members. You have the right to do so, you have the right to raise a question of trust between everyone and the Prime Minister and any member of the government, but I believe that the reasons for this, at least we believe that the reasons for this must be justified, justified. And because of my conclusion, the SDP will not support the decision to vote against Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7280	We have reported four corrections to this exhibit of an incorrect allegation. First respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course it's incorrect what Mr. Dragovan says is that we filed a motion to replace Minister Jovanovic because of the party relations in HDZ. In fact, in the HDZ presidency, Mr Dragovan mentions our session. I must inform you that the HDZ Presidency's decision was unanimous, and we agreed more than we agreed on. And I must inform you that only two future candidates for the president or president of the HDZ are sitting in the HDZ presidency so that it has absolutely nothing to do with it. And when you talk about cheap politics, then I have to mention that in 2010, you asked for my replacement of the Prime Minister who unblocked the negotiations, and you wanted to tear down the government and you wanted the government not to finish negotiations and that the Republic of Croatia would not become a member of the European Union. And that's the real truth, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7282	The second correction to the incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Dragovan said on behalf of the club more incorrect allegations, so here's what I see is quite interesting. It's unfounded, Mr. Dragovan, what you're saying. We are representatives of the Croatian Parliament and it is incorrect that we, because of our own within the party elections, speak here in the Parliament. We've been chosen by their constituents in their election units. The government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as Mr Jovanovic, comes from this House and the trust and mistrust is decided by the MPs. You can accept our proposal or not accept it. But don't laugh. There's nothing funny about this country, and I'm gonna do it again. We've been listening to you very carefully. We have the right to speak in the Parliament and speak our opinions, and don't worry about the HDZ elections. If you were asked, there would never be either HDZ or free Croatia, and now laugh freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7284	Please! Like this, first of all. For what you've just said, I give you a warning. We now have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7285	Mr. Vice President, from your bench...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7286	What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7287	All articles of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7288	Well, it can't be!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7289	Can't a fellow representative yell at Mr. Salapic to shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7290	Thank you very much, thank you very much. You have to go to your seat. You can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7291	Mr. Representative, Mr. Vice President, no one in this assembly can yell at anyone to shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7292	But you can't speak, you can't correct an incorrect claim, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7293	And you have to stop it, you have to stop it, Mr. Vice President. You must prevent insults and demeaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7294	I must first prevent this abuse of the Rules of Procedure and such self-will. But, Mrs. Kosor, Vice President of the House, you are the vice president of the Parliament, you must stick to the Rules of Procedure. Don't stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is why I warn you not to stick to it. We've got a third correction to the incorrect allegations of representative Gjurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Mr. Dragovan's incorrect claim that they're young people, and that's what you insist on setting up a minister that we're only talking about today because after my education, I can't find a job. Mr Dragovan, they are dissatisfied with the work of your government and Minister Jovanovic. They are dissatisfied because you underestimated their competences and their education. You employ Jovanovic exclusively in party books regardless of your competences, regardless of your education. That is why young people are dissatisfied, and believe that they often think about leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7296	And the fourth correction of the incorrect allegations is the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Dragovan said the Ministry of Education found financial chaos. It's incorrect, but it's true that in 2003 we found such chaos and that debt for the regression, for the Christmases, that we had to speculate with educational workers that these financial obligations were as little as possible because there were thousands and thousands of lawsuits. I've been involved in this, and I can testify to that. Also, you're in response to this government said that, that indeed a lot of the salaries in education were growing and that this money you provided at the Ministry of Education would be enough for everyone. That's what you told Minister Jovanovic in response to this government's response. So you can't say that nothing has been done in the past eight years. It worked in education much from education reforms to increasing education funds and more than 70% from 2003 to 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7298	For the pay phone, I now call again on the Minister of Science and Education and Sport, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Please, according to our Rules of Procedure, just a little bit, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Mrs. Kosor, first if you think I've made a mistake somewhere, then it's legitimate to raise a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. But according to our Rules of Procedure, I did not make a mistake because a representative of the Government can appear after every debate and for 10 minutes. Did we clear that up? Don't throw it out of the bench. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There's been a lot of questions about the budget, so I'm going to look around here for a little while, and I won't need 10 minutes on the budget. Before that, I would refer to it as a minister. I have no support. Well, according to one public poll, I enjoy the support of 65% of Croatian citizens and it will be very interesting for my colleagues in the opposition, and I am glad that thanks to me you could bring a unanimous stance on the Presidency, which is very rarely 49% of HDZ supports my work. I thank them for that. So when we talk about the budget in agreement with the Education and Education Agency, it is about creating a prerequisite for introducing new content into school. In your request for my resignation, it is mentioned that I did not plan the funds, so of course I did not, such decisions are not made overnight or over the knee. It is necessary to change what is taught at school and how it is taught at school. We create a framework for completely new content, content that will allow school not to be taught for the grade but to live, that children can get a job from which they will live fairly and have a fair salary if they enroll in college that will have knowledge that will allow them to be successful students. And of course we create assumptions about the introduction of health care and education that will include sexual education, education on sexually transmitted diseases, the harmfulities of all kinds of addiction, prevention of obesity, cardiovascular diseases, violence in society and among young people. We are creating assumptions for the introduction of civil education, education and education for democratic citizenship because we want to direct young people to their rights, freedoms and responsibilities as citizens and teach them how to fight for them. We create assumptions for first-class information because today writing means knowing Croatian, one foreign language and being informational written. We're making assumptions about e-school, e-books, e-data evidence is that they're not just empty stories. You've spent a lot of time talking about my irresponsibility for budgeting. I remind you that the priority of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was to preserve the rights of workers and encourage key items of educational and scientific activity. It is very difficult to do something because over the past 8 years, the share of salaries in the ministry's budget has reached 90%. So it'll take at least eight years to change that. With the reduction of some material expenditures that will not compromise the implementation of the core activity, there has been an increase in funding for a whole series of important projects. That's how it is, for example. in the science sector... Scientific Technological Cooperation received 14% more money, bilateral 13%, lifelong education program 40%, scientific journals were allocated 16% more funding, books and textbooks 40%, and 100% increased funding for scientific meetings, and for scientific professional associations 230%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, there has been an increase in funds. for the FP7 project 60% more than in the past. It is important to point out that the Ministry of Education and Sports has provided 52 million kuna more for scholarships, which is how we fulfill our promise that in Croatia education will be equally accessible to all regardless of political belonging, regardless of the party, regardless of whether any scientific recruit has left the university and continues to use the credit he received from the university and thereby damages his colleagues who remain in the system. And there are some of them, and they're sitting right here. Prevention of school addiction increased by 236%, prevention of school violence 439%, promotion of program of work with gifted students and students 133%, professional training of teachers for the implementation of national programmes 109%, deficit textbooks in school 23% higher, education of children in alternative schools spoke of it 133% higher. The Croatian Qualifications Framework was a completely new item million and a half kuna, the Croatian Foundation for Science programmes were zero this year, 10 million. The publication of domestic and scientific journals 116%, the regular activity of scientific and professional associations, I have already said, state awards for top sports achievements 300% increase. Croatian University Sports Federation 264%, prevention of violence by sports in schools 214%, training of non-swimmings in schools 166%. I could still count. So, my dear gentlemen, if someone has provided money to improve the activities of education, science and sports, then this is the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7300	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's before the very presentation may be a little unusual, but here I want to thank everyone for expressing their condolences to me and my family about my brother's death, and thank you very much. The HDSB club issue, as it is called in the agenda, is a question of driving the issue of trust of Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic, because unlike all the clubs so far, and given these more than 100 days of the new Croatian government headed by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic here, it should be made clear and loud that this should not be a question of distrusting Minister Jovanovic but a vote of mistrust to the entire government. Because the issue of mistrust is not an ordinary item of the agenda, and also for me, and for the HDSSB club, the real key reasons for voting this mistrust are not quite certainly the medialy well-accompanied speech of the minister, as it was, look at yourself in the mirror and spit or that Parliament is a henhouse, and that's what our famous actor Zlatko Knights said a few years ago, so there wasn't so much dust about it. In any case, one such speech, and I agree that the situation in Croatian sport should be cleared up, but it is not a matter of the minister, it is a matter of law, a law that should be passed by the Croatian Parliament, not by a minister who will put on boxing gloves and go fighting with Mamic or Markovic. And the fact is that in Croatian football but also in sport there are a number of problems. However, given that Minister Jovanovic is a member of the Croatian government and the real reason and the real basis for not voting in confidence with this government because more than 100 days have passed, the programme of this Croatian government is not the one that was adopted by the Croatian Parliament by the majority in the Croatian Parliament and there are indeed beautiful, wonderful things for those who can read, but this real one that is in action. So this program used to be popularly called Plan 21. That Plan 21 left only a dead letter on paper. And this written and adopted programme of the government of the Republic of Croatia is a fraud of Croatian voters, a fraud of Croatian MPs whether they voted for this programme or not, is this programme 21 of the government of the Republic of Croatia very quickly became a plan 25. And these are the basic reasons for the vote of no confidence. The question of religious science, the HDSSB club advocates staying religious in schools because it is necessary to distinguish school religion from catechetic. School religious science for which there is no alternative at this time, because there is no alternative in the national programme or alternative in the national programme, and also this school religious science is the basis of the contract of an interstate contract of the Republic of Croatia with St. A chair. But I will return to these basic reasons of mistrust, which is primarily a government programme, a 2012 budget for which the Prime Minister said that the state budget is a complex system composed of hundreds and thousands of components that the average human mind can't understand or can't understand. Fortunately, we have representatives who, as well as the complex components and tasks that stemmed from the fraud plan 21 which can very well understand and read this budget which is primarily undeveloped is not socially sensitive and which once again challenges the survival of certain regions, the region in the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we were at the wedding for 12 Croatian directors in Borov village and I am responsible for saying that none of those who fought and gave their lives for Croatia imagined Croatia as it was from the draft independence until today, never imagined it until 1999. It was not imagined from 2000 to 2003, nor from 2003 to 2012 but also from Croatia as it is now quite certain that no one was fighting for it and no one imagined it as a country in which we daily have new responsibilities for both states and citizens so that they could survive from 1st to 1st, that we have constant purchases, announcements of fuel, electricity, gas, fees that have been suspended, which are believed and unconstitutional. Therefore, there is no argument either this former government, nor the captain with a little vitre and still the president of HZD, Mrs. Kosor, because it is precisely the government that introduced these provisions and those water charges, so that it should be clear to the citizens that nothing has changed drastically in Croatia. And in the end, I'm going to get to this graphite that's here in Slavonia, and it's bringing it back to more and more places every day. It is certainly one of the samples and permanent growth of the unemployed, regardless of where several thousand will be downloaded through the public works programme, through a volunteering programme for 1600 kuna where most entrepreneurs will accept it, most units of local self-government are only the question where they will accommodate so many young, educated and professional people in a year will receive a fee of 1600 kn and the possibility of passing a state exam. But I say as far as this measure is concerned, nothing better than nothing, because in at least six months or a year's time, it's going to cut down on the fixed number of unemployed, and then by getting out of school, there's going to be a re-enlargement. It's a huge fall in standard, I could talk to you in time. There are certainly pensioners who have not been able to repair the situation for the last 130 days. I know that certain problems have been inherited, we are aware of that, but we are also aware that by a series of decisions from the social state, from what is written in the Constitution that everyone has the right to work and the compensation worthy of their work has nothing. And that should be said openly, to Croatian citizens, that this government did not go through social sensitivity, through social democracy, but went through neoliberalism, through a simple sentence that large fish eat small ones. In the end, you will see who will swallow who because neither Croatian citizens nor Croatian rowers suck. There are daily tips for survival, there is also a new division of Croatia. We are witnessing that there is an open political story that has no basis either in the Constitution or in the positive regulations, that is the story of Bleiburg, the story of the crossroad. There's a story about the famous Komadina's laws, there's a story about hiring similar without competitions, and since we've received advice that the less we talk on the phone, the less we write to the godfather today, since it's cheaper, so I'm going to write you a letter to see if he joined the SDP and thus made it possible to get to such a desired job. This is the full centralisation of Croatia, further poverty of local self-government units, all thanks to the mini tax reforms, laws, partial laws, partial solutions that this Croatian government ad hoc brings before the parliament and thus prevents the real development of Croatia and the real launch of Croatia. The fish smell like head, but it is driven by fins, not by heads, but by fins and Croatia needs to be run from the ground, not by Croatia here in Mark's square, not by Croatia in Banski dvori. Because if we wait for Croatia to start with such laws, we will never start it, and we are witnesses all these years because we are in such a situation that in Croatia normal life, a man's life and a normal man's life is impossible, except normally for those of us who are here bleeding in the Croatian government, ministries, agencies, infancy, research and waste of time and in the Croatian Parliament. Slavonia and Baranja have been neglected, not to mention agriculture and the billions and a half less kuna in the state budget, of which almost certainly a billion kuna should have come to Slavonia and Baranja. Not to mention that today we heard the case of "Jadrankamen", but not to mention those protesters who protested for the sake of encouragement, for the price of a liter of milk, and who had just begun and the trial had forgotten that the horns were not good for the bost, and that the courts were not going to their local environments but had to come to Zagreb because they had remethyled public order and peace, because they made it impossible for Croatia's metropolis to bypass a kilometer around the main Slavonia Avenue and thus reach the centre of Croatia, which is inadmissible. There are projects that stop every day. One of the most important is certainly the latest project to be stopped, the continuation of the construction of corridor 5C, the construction of the bridge across the Drava River, and it seems to me that the plan or strategy of the deliberate destruction of Slavonia and Baranja is only because someone does not like the song "Inti se Slavonia". This song is not an ink song, defiance, in order to defy one, it was also sung during the Homeland War, if we hadn't sung it today, nobody would have sat here thanks to Slavonia, but also to all parts of Croatia who followed during the Homeland War. For that bridge near the Drava River, a dedicated loan was also raised from the German Development Bank, so the money was broken into something else. Whether this government did it or already this government did it needs to investigate anyway. There were 2,000 workers working on that bridge, a construction operation was employed, not to mention that many companies invested in equipment, and the value of this is a billion kuna, far less than it will be a tunnel under Bosnia, not to mention now the Peljeski bridge, and there are other solutions that can connect the south of Croatia with the rest of Croatia. At the same time, instead of that bridge, we're going to get 10, 15, or 20% higher toll and keep counting so many reasons, the average salary height, the average pension height. All that Plan 21 that was promised in the elections because that you dear gentlemen are especially from the SDP because you're the headquarters of the Kukuriku coalition you promised...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7302	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7303	Thank you. You promised to raise the power, the gas, the VAT, I don't know which fool would vote for you. For Slavonia and Baranja, I must finally say...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7304	A colleague of Vinkovic's, just a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7305	HDZ equals SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7306	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7307	And that's why we're asking for the entire government's resignation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7308	You can write this in a special request and ask for it. You've got 10 minutes to apply for an individual hearing, so you don't have to go too far. But a member of your club, distinguished Boro Grubisic, believes you said something completely incorrect so we can hear what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's not even that. It's consent with Mr. Vinkovic. In his comprehensive debate whose content I fully sign, except for one thing when he said he was minor, so he reduces the importance or marginalises the type statement, let Markovic, Srebric, Mamic look in the mirror and spit. I disagree, I correct it, I think it is a very significant educational component of Minister Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7310	We have until the break to hear another debate on behalf of the club. It will be a club of HNS representatives and distinguished counterpart Goran Beus Richemergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7311	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities, the responsibility of the executive and those who make it towards the Croatian Parliament must always be welcomed in this House. It should remind again and again not only of the apostolates entered in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but also of the centuries-old tradition of parliamentary democracy which requires absolute respect for the will of the legislative body and when it is the executive power headed by the Government. And every minister, every one of his deputies, every one of his assistants, and the Prime Minister himself, the Prime Minister, must always deal with dignity, and that is why it is never bad to talk about it. But what did we experience? That budgetary policy, morale, decent behavior, polite speaking to teach us HDZ. HDZ is a party that has delegated itself when talking about how to discuss the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities and the minister's responsibility. Not once. I would like to remind you that in 2008, the Croatian Parliament seems to have reached a conclusion that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to inform the Croatian Parliament once a year about the state of the state of the state of the country and the nation. And what have we experienced from the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor? We experienced her brutally mocking the Croatian Parliament by sending a letter saying that the conclusion could only apply exclusively to the government of Ivo Sanader without referring to its government. There is so much about the credibility of Ms Kosor and HDZ, who dominated the government when it comes to how the government should be held accountable to the Croatian Parliament. Let's go one step further. We are called upon to speak of love, tolerance, called Minister Jovanovic because of his statements that I believe in a part of the public may well be annoying. Maybe they were in one hour and exorcised. But who teaches us how to speak love? Is that the party who called us the cattle of a tiny tooth? We don't have to go far. The closest associates of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, some of them sitting in this House in the last term, called the representatives fools, drunkards, commies, fatters, and told them to hold the stamps and now Mrs Kosor wants to give us an unacceptable speech in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian Government. Not only did she not react then, but none of the colleagues and colleagues who introduced the discussion in this House here, and who doesn't know what it is to ask exactly Mr. Baranovic and the other representatives from Dalmatia, none and none of them have ever received any firm measure in the Croatian Parliament. The more the government members laughed and enjoyed themselves, the members of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's government in these benches ate, chewed, drank, drained their shoes and acted extremely inappropriately. This is the government that I suppose should be the model of behavior and I guess that's what ministers should look like in today's government as well, so probably Mr. Jovanovic. Do you really think that we are such short memories and that the people who listen to this and who will hear this have forgotten how you and what you have introduced as a practice in the Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics. The request for the responsibility of Minister Jovanovic was drawn up on about two and a half cards. He is respected that at a party meeting in response to the press, the Parliament contextulated the word chicken. Do you really think we forgot that the Parliament called the HDZ Minister of Culture a chicken? And I ask you what you have done since then as a party that ruled Croatia, which dominated the Croatian Parliament, led the Croatian Government to restore dignity to the Croatian Parliament, to disprove all of those elements of such a statement and possible credibility in that statement because they wanted me to admit it or not, as difficult or not, as many people agree. Because they watch and listen to what MPs and MPs here say and measure their credibility and measures as to how they behave both when they are in power and when they are in opposition. And they also follow very closely what they measure with their arches and others. The same is true of the Minister that no one has seen. The alleged document in which segregation was carried out, i.e. discrimination of persons based on disability. It is true, there is one debate that has been initiated about new legal solutions for Olympic fees. But just as there is this claim, there is another claim, and that is why anyone is allowed to retire under privileged conditions regardless of the results and there is also a debate here because this House has just granted pensions suspended itself. But speaking of discrimination, I must remind you, Mrs. Kosor, that in almost 20 years your party in power has led not only to discriminate against people with disabilities, but to discriminate against people with disabilities in terms of how they acquire disability. Do you know Mrs. Kosor how much the difference in disability fees is to a person who lost his leg in a workplace, in a war as a civilian, in a war as a soldier, in peace as a civilian? Do you know what these differences are? Do you know how these people feel because you have promised them for years that you will correct these injustices, and you have never done so. And you're talking today about a discrimination based on something that you haven't seen, but you've only just heard it, and the minister has just said what his position is about it. You're wondering what kind of message the minister is sending and this government is sending to the young, the students. I'm asking you, Mrs. Kosor, and your HDZ colleagues, what messages have you been sending all these years while you've been in power? What kind of message did you send by withdrawing funds from the state budget from the public budget and through FIMI media because there was no one left to transfer that money for the needs of your own party, your own promotions, your own campaigns? Whether I invented it or perhaps members of the HDZ are largely on the accused benches and the Croatian Democratic Community itself. What kind of message did you send to young people, what practice? Have you perhaps told them that you are involved in politics because there is money there that you can easily suck and spend on your own private or your own party needs? Perhaps that message is a little more devastating than that of Minister Jovanovic. Think about it. Secondly, as for Mr Jovanovic's statements, I would probably speak differently with Mr Mamic, Srebrenica and others. It's a question not only of style but of a simple moment. But the fact that you do not want to talk about is because you haven't spoken for years, which is the measure of what the situation in Croatian sport is, what state of Croatian sport you have brought into, and how it is possible that some sports are ruled by mafia octopuses, corruption and cross-border interests that avoid paying taxes. Do you remember how many times we've had Minister Schucker here asking if he paid a tax on a certain transfer he said it was a tax secret? Anything that could have been discussed in public on this subject you declared a tax secret. That's your message. It's a message that's much, much more malignant than the ones you're criticizing here today. Do not count on people forgetting in just 4 months what practice is and what is the heritage of the Croatian HDZ rule in 20 years. You have led Croatia to the fact that neither the Minister of Education nor any minister can practically make any decision anymore, and that it is not considered in the majority of the public as a difficult, hard, decision to give up. You're talking about budgetary stability, about reducing resources for science, education. So how is it possible to cut the budget? How is it possible to reduce the budget deficit? Well, only by leaving that condition behind. When you went to the polls you didn't tell your voters that you left 27 billion debt in the Croatian highways, you didn't say how many debts you left at the Ministry of Agriculture, you didn't say what situation you left in other sectors. No, you didn't say. Therefore, you are the last in line to speak to the leaders of the Kukurik coalition as set out in Plan 21. Plan 21 has a period of four years, and yours is up. The HNS Club will not allow any member of this government to make such an up-to-date, hypocritical and low-priced decision-making effort than the ruling majority will step up in a way that even better, works even harder and push their government to work faster, more decisively and make difficult decisions, but to decide not to play politics like you did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7312	A whole series of corrections to incorrect allegations and two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First honorary representative Vladimir Seks, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure, Rule 209(1), in relation to Article 214(1) and Article 214 paragraph 1.a and (c). He completely missed the topic, this is not about the responsibility of the former government and former Prime Minister and Minister, this is about the launch of the responsibility of Prime Minister in the government of Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. You've focused your entire exposure on the responsibility of the former government. You've completely missed the subject. Secondly, in your debate, you treated a number of HDZ MPs, former government ministers, prime ministers, in an extremely offensive way. It was an extremely offensive discourse that you've marked and sealed your entire debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7314	I don't know if I'm supposed to explain it or not. So I estimate that Mr. Richembergh did not harm Article 114 or Article 109. So he didn't speak in an offensive way, he spoke harshly, he spoke his views, his club attitudes, and he questioned the credibility of the proposer of this point which I think is acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7315	Can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7316	There's no argument, so you know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7317	There is, there is, express dissent with your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7318	There's no such thing as our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7319	What do you mean, it's gone? So see 209, if the representative is not satisfied with the given explanation, he may request that he submit an opinion to the relevant committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7320	That's right. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7321	Well, that's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7322	So you can ask, in writing, you can ask the Committee on the Constitution
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7323	No, no, but when I talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure as an agent when he talks about hurting the Rules of Procedure when the President expresses his testimony that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, then the MP can give an explanation why he is not satisfied with the President's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7324	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7325	Well, of course you'll give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7327	This Rules of Procedure is a colleague. I'll make it available to you, so I'm not going to give you a doctor's license, am I? You have now expressed your view that the Rules of Procedure and I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have not been injured, have asked that my opinion be given to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, because I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and I do not agree with your explanation that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Thank you very much for giving me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7328	Please. So you're asking the Constitution Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7329	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7330	You're the chairman of the board, too, aren't you? And no, you're not, Vice President. Okay, so we'll see what the board says about this search for you. We have a second correction, that is, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7331	Mr. Vice President. I refer to the article, among other things, 213. Rules of Procedure. I think you should have told a representative who spoke on behalf of the HNS Club a warning. However, just before you did, I think it is extremely incompetent to lead this session and extremely humiliating towards HDZ. In fact, just before you warned me that I couldn't ask my colleagues questions, and you allowed him to ask a dozen questions personally to me and insinuate around FIMI Media and insinuate and pressure on the judicial system. You told me I couldn't ask the MPs questions, but of course because part of your Kukurik coalition is allowed kindly just ask her, humiliate her, insult her. That's absolutely unacceptable, Mr. Vice President. I am protesting, and I will also ask the Committee for the Constitution for the way you conduct the session because it turns out that we are really too high here, because you will continue to allow us to be insulted, humiliated and disdained. And we won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7332	Well, Agent Beus Richembergh didn't ask you a question. He was giving his club attitudes. Let's go fix it. First of all, the Honorable Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here he is in the defense attorney's manner, Jovanovic's representative, Beus, speaks extremely offensively and lists a number of incorrect allegations and so arrogantly that Cavic would not be ashamed of him either, but that is why you have not yet entered into the rope of your party's leadership. So you say and speak here what practice we have brought into the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Attorney General Jovanovic, you are wrong. Here was tolerance, and your practice exactly what hurts you most is incompetence your practice is that young people go to you for party books to get a job like that. And your arrogant speech speaks of you and your competences and perhaps some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7334	Here, there's not a single quote you've corrected, not a single one. Perhaps the vice president of House Vladimir Seks will succeed in calling for correction of the incorrect allegations. You've come forward to correct the incorrect allegations. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7335	Thank you very much. ... the quote by President Richembergh that HDZ did not show itself when former Minister of Culture Knight said a parable with, yes, yes, he quoted there but to remind you of a statement by Matoshe from the Council of the Trodice in Pozun and then for this inappropriate comparison and association with the Croatian Assembly with the henhouse, the culture minister received a very severe language of soup, the culture minister had to apologize publicly, he had to be publicly built up. I called him on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives back in the '90s, and I don't know what years he got from this House of Mayor's pay phone, and that's where he poured his ashes into..., he apologized that it was so poetically expressed, he had such a special style as Minister Jovanovic really had an impressive special style.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7336	Next correction, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr. Richembergh's incorrect allegations that HDZ measures the double archinae to ask Minister Jovanovic for a responsibility he did not ask his minister to do. That's not true. We in HDZ are looking for a very clear answer, did Mr. Jovanovic sign a statement on fiscal responsibility in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act? Did he indicate that he had secured funds for the normal functioning of the very large system he was managing? Did he deliver that statement to the finance minister? Did the finance minister send a reply to that statement and guarantee that the statement by Minister Jovanovic confirms that he has provided funds for the normal functioning of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that there is enough resources for the normal functioning of the system? If this is not true and if, during the year in this House, we establish by virtue of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, that there is a need to rebalance the budget and to increase significant resources In the Ministry of Science, then under the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, Mr. Vice-President, the Minister must resign himself without our demand for responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]] So that's it, and I'd like to ask Mr. Minister to provide us with a copy of his statement and a reply from the Minister of Finance. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7338	The next amendment, distinguished representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7339	Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the same quote as my colleague Shex regarding the Minister of the Knights. It's not true he's not being warned. However, I would refer to a few sentences in a way related to the keying in Mamic's mirror, Markovic's way of talking about it. Dear colleague, Croatian football has celebrated the Croatian state in the last 14 years. Today, the Croatian team is the 8th world and has been among the 10 teams in the world for 14 years. And Croatian football I repeat again celebrating Croatia's state as no one, and I don't know what you'll celebrate with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7340	And the final correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7341	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, it is an incorrect quote from counterpart Richembergh where he claimed that Minister Jovanovic could be used by rhetoric to address representatives or officials of the Croatian Football Federation. That's absolutely incorrect. You said he could do it so, maybe worse. That's what you tried to insinuate in your presentation. In fact, with such rhetoric, I would invite you to take a mirror along with it, look at yourself, and then do what he recommended to those officials. I hope that even the doubts about the fact that there are double arches for the standards of disabled working with disabled people of the Homeland War absolutely cannot stand the disability you mentioned can't be the same because the special law that speaks of the rights of Croatian defenders and the disabilityes they have acquired in defence of the sovereignty of the Croatian homeland cannot be equal with the disabled workers. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7342	Time. Excuse me, we have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, speaking on behalf of your club, you have made an incorrect claim that the HDZ members are on the defendant's bench. HDZ members are not hostages of anyone's politics and none of their crimes. We are the first, our government and Mrs Kosor, to launch an open fight against corruption and crime in Croatia. It was this consistent struggle that resulted in the conclusion of the negotiations, in particular Chapter 23. And this government has introduced the Republic of Croatia into the EU. Our president signed an Agreement on Croatia's EU accession. If it were like you said, our country would not be the 28th member of the EU. I earned a warning and got from your benches to shut up. We're fellow MPs, and our club thinks there's a reason to discuss this today. You can respect it or not appreciate it, but it's extremely rude the way you discussed our proposal today. ... We won't cry, ma'am. Croatia will cry for choosing you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7344	I'm announcing a break now. We'll continue at 3:00. Next up is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7345	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament are going to continue the debate. The first for a word in the follow-up session was the respected representative Nedzad Hodzic, the Club of National Minorities. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7346	We believe that very little time has passed since the formation of the government, until today when we should judge or not judge the work of individual ministers, but also the Government as a whole. Therefore, the National Minority Representatives' Club will support Minister Zeljko Jovanovic and support his stay in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We think it is too early to bring the court to see whether this government and Minister Jovanovic are doing their job well. The reasons why it has been requested to show mistrust to Minister Jovanovic largely comes down to his verbal communication and expression, and very little is actually said nor can it be talked about the results because it has simply been a short time since the vote of confidence to this government. It is certain that all of us, including Minister Jovanovic, should very often count to 10 before we say something. It is also a fact that all of us, and I believe Minister Jovanovic, are very often regretted after being said. But also the fact that the situation in Croatian society is such that we do not have time I would say count to two, but it is time to start to act effectively, and this is primarily the task of this government and the task of course and Minister Jovanovic as a resolute minister. We believe that only about a year or so will we all be able to be together and that it will take enough time to assess the work of this government, and that until then it is simply too early to speak because the problems in society are such that it will take time and time and serious work to fix these things in society. Also, at this point, it doesn't matter who's responsible for this bad situation in society. Thus, carrying out a conclusion or blaming anyone is simply not fruitful. It's important that all together, and the government we've chosen first of all is making very serious and responsible moves. And so we invite all of you to this government to say we still believe, to show her trust and wait and hope to welcome the good results of this government. If this government makes good results, it will be good results for a complete Croatian society, and if it fails badly, it will be only theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7347	Thank you very much. Next, SDSS club and respected representative Milorad Pupovac came forward. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7348	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club will not support a request for resignation or a request to leave the government of Minister Zeljko Jovanovic for the same reason my predecessor Hodzic said, which is that Minister Jovanovic is only at the beginning of his job and that we certainly do not have any sufficient objective assumptions to judge whether he was in such short time along with his co-workers in the ministry and together with other members of the government could lead the ministry differently. Because we just don't have the necessary facts to show that he did damage to the ministry or that he didn't do enough to benefit the ministry itself. On the contrary, we could say that Minister Jovanovic opened very many fronts in such a short time in very many fields he wanted significant in some segments of radical change and in this sense he differed from his predecessors. And in this sense he took over for himself and his government a certain kind of risk and for his ministry, but he will, of course, decide whether or not it is our impression of people who are more cautious in this regard, which means that in several different fields in very sensitive areas such as the question of sport, such as the question of religion, such as the question of spelling, such as the question of a number of others for Croatian sensitive subjects were for symbolic reasons, whether for ideological reasons, and whether it is a sport as the minister himself knows it for very clear interesting reasons. And of course what is most important and what is most important is that both the minister and his ministry came very quickly to that set of laws - the Law on Science, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the University which caused a big storm at the end of the term of office of the last government, which led to the fact that the academic population, the university population, were primarily student, but also a good part of the teachers of the University especially in Zagreb, but in other universities, they began to actively position themselves in relation to the scientific, university, higher education policy of the Government and not only in terms of how I would say you gave us enough money or didn't give us enough money. You hired us enough or you didn't hire us enough. You have enough quotas or you don't have enough quotas. This time, this articulation took place in the direction of general social and general political articulation, which means that through it, as the minister could see, because he was one of the actors in the debates that followed last year, in the final year of the mandate of the last government, so he can see, and now that they are connected with the general concept of social political and role of science and higher education in society and are not just a narrow segment of the requirement that we have become accustomed to during the coming years, which is, in the budget, you did not provide 6% but only 3%, or why you allowed it to be 5% less than this time is a systematic reflection of the concept of higher education and science in the Republic which, in my opinion, and I believe the minister will agree with that, Croatia added one new energy, new thought quality and new scientific engagement and people who are aware of their scientific works, but also at the beginning of academic education and academic education. And I believe that the real temptation and the real challenge for the minister will actually be that. So these segments concerning the law and these segments concerning thinking, articulation of social long-term political when it comes to science, when it comes to high education when it comes to research when it comes to university. In this sense, of course, the question that has already been raised publicly, as is the question that university teachers must leave at 65 years of retirement to leave room for younger ones, because it comes from the other side of the requirement that some should not leave 65 years ago. So if some who spend their working conditions and living conditions already after 55 years still have to work for another 10 years, and those who, thanks to the nature of their work, can, thanks to the nature of their profession only at that age, accumulate a huge amount of knowledge, a huge amount of experience, and are often more protected in health and other circumstances, then they will have to leave at 65 years of age, then they will certainly have to find one answer to such a question. The same is true of the question about how and how to ensure progress within the academic community, particularly the university and research communities, which is of course the question of whether we will have re-election or have project reports and in these matters there is no doubt that the minister will encounter serious challenges such as he is certainly aware that he will face serious challenges and in this matter it will be necessary to show not only all determination to implement reforms but also the necessary wisdom. And now, if you would allow me, I would return to what it is, partly back because I admit in advance that I was not qualified for this kind of debate or at least part of this debate that was conducted before the break, which is like what the HDZ representatives for the first ten years accused representatives of the SDP and others who represent the left hand side that they actually had nothing to say and predate because they weren't good enough Croats, they were commies, they allowed this or that to happen, and now it looks like the next ten years HDZ should be responsible for what it was during the 1990s for the robbery, for corruption and so forth. And that kind of rhetoric certainly won't improve the quality of the debate in this House. It can be successful, it can be interesting, it can also be attractive in some segments, but I think that when it comes to the question of science and education and the question of the position of the minister and his future it is not the subject on which such a debate should, in my opinion, be conducted. But one thing we should certainly have, and that's a kind of culture of political speech that even when talking to people we feel we have almost nothing in common to talk to or to those we almost think we're not worth talking to. And certainly there are those, or at least by our estimates, there are those on the public scene, public roles and things like that, but in order to protect our own and our own institutions in this case, here in the Parliament, we actually have to stop ourselves from doing that. And we need to promote a kind of speech culture that will be based on dialogue. I am deeply convinced that Minister Jovanovic, with his ministry, will be at the culture of dialogue, the culture of talks that he will need within the next few months about the topics I mentioned, about the law he has sent to a public debate that will certainly continue and come here to the Parliament, will certainly see that the only effective means, the only good way to achieve the goal is to affirm through his ministry, through his own engagement of the culture of dialogue and his determination to achieve certain things will be nothing reduced. On the contrary, it will only get some new kind of dimension, some new kind of quality and something that this society and this country certainly need more than a confrontation policy, rather than a policy based on who will be more successful in disqualifying or verbally beating someone. That kind of competition where we're going to watch someone verbally get their heads together is something that I think we should stay away from. So, I'm always for that instead of politics how to verbally come to someone's head or tell them what's going on in his face is actually to convince those who listen to us that what we're saying out of our own head is more successful than what comes from those who are our opponents. And that's the only thing I would say on behalf of the SDSS club and my personal name to the minister who went enthusiastically, who, in some segments, went awry, but to whom we from the SDSS Club will give support to the changes that need to be made and at the same time give him support to open up a dialogue space in this society that is quite exhausted from confrontations and to create space for his ministry to be not only the Ministry of Change but also the Ministry of Wise Decisions and Wise Treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7349	Thank you, Your Honor, and the SDSS Club. This is how we exhausted the list of clubs in the Croatian Parliament that were registered to discuss this topic. So I propose that the respected Minister of Science, Education and Sports, before the transition to the debate, turn individually for 10 minutes to the Croatian Parliament again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here you can allow distinguished MPs and MPs a few sentences since all clubs have expressed their views on the topic that is on the agenda today. First of all, what Mr. Honorable Pupovac was talking about, as regards the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Reforms are necessary, everyone agrees, and reforms are only afraid of bad scientists. We didn't have the number of scientists I talked to these days saying that the failure that was experienced last year by the proposals of the Science and Higher Education Act is actually a good indicator of the situation in the academic community. Despite the fact that all have had at least some objections to the proposals, a large part believes that the real reason for the great dust that these laws have raised is that many fear that in a system that is more powerfully promoting competence and excellence could lose their privileges, which is exactly what we want. So, we have these legal changes that are in the public debate and that will only come to light after the public debate we want to encourage excellence and competence because this is the only time for our Croatian science to remain part of the European scientific space. Expecting that most bad scientists will voluntarily accept world criteria and rules of conduct such as international reviews. are unfortunately stories for small children, according to one respected Croatian academic. Regarding what we have talked about so far, I must say that the goal of Croatian society is for our government and my ministry of education and science in the focus of Croatia's economic and social development. In this my mission as minister is to contribute in a way that is at the heart of my interest, my ministry, and in fact all of us, children, students, students and athletes. Not teachers, not teachers, not teachers. It's all for kids, for students, for students and athletes so they can do their job. So, as I said today in a different way, ministerial work is neither a competition for miss or a mystery of sympathy, but responsible work, a work that rarely causes and conflicts because when you cause changes, it's normal for some to react to these changes by fearing change by respecting what you're doing. It's the same way that whoever's doing it is wrong. Sin is human, we're all human. I can say that in some of my actions I may be too strong in words. I apologize this way if I hurt anyone with it, but I also have to say again that whenever I recognize the unhappiness, irresponsibility, corruption, I will remain the same. I may be careful to be milder in sentences, but I'll never shut up about negratism, illegality, irresponsibility, crime and corruption. I got an epithet that I'm a football minister on the verge of science, I'm actually not even mad at that. But in a few of my next steps, I will prove to you that I am the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. If we start from pre-school education in this 4 month we have opened 8 new private kindergartens, for 21 associations we have issued consent to the design of pre-school programmes, and approved 92 consent in children's kindergartens such as sports programs, early learning of foreign languages, program montessors, program for children with developmental difficulties, for gifted children, eco programmes, sustainable development programmes, music, stage, art programs. We continued co-financing of children in public needs programmes through the 2012 state budget for 17 thousand 253 preschool children in preschool programmes, members of national minorities, and children with disabilities and gifted children. We developed the first draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. So it's just in the kindergarten. If we are talking about basic education, it is just disastrous that we have 40 implementing acts left that have not been passed, so 40 implementing acts have not been passed by the Ministry, and they should have regulated the implementation of the Fundamental Education Act. Therefore, we are working on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the procedure for determining the mental state of the child, the student, and the composition of the expert committees. The rules on the process of detection, the determination of the gift and the conditions of working with gifted students, which we consider to be extremely significant. But also the Regulation on types of difficulties and an appropriate schooling programme and appropriate forms of assistance to students in primary and secondary schools. All those working in primary and secondary schools where students with developmental difficulties know how much problems they have since the implementing acts have not yet been adopted. The conditions for starting work in 4 newly built and built school buildings and school sports halls have been established. A full analysis of the employment needs of the primary education and education system has been made and it has been established that 500 new jobs should be granted on the basis of justified requirements. Therefore, this was known last year but not approved, no funds are provided for these 500 new jobs, of which as many as 212 requests are needed for the employment of expert associates who are constantly missing in primary school. We have provided resources in the state budget to finance the costs of transport, nutrition and radioactive equipment for students with developmental difficulties. We increased the funds secured in the state budget in 2012 by as much as 5 million kuna more compared to 2011. We've approved classes in the house for 44 students with motor skills or students suffering from chronic illnesses. We have made a decision to appoint 4 primary schools of training centres in which 25 teachers were appointed as mentors for the needs of colleges where future teachers are educated, we have approved the implementation of 4 new research in primary schools so that they can improve their work in primary schools based on these studies. When it comes to high schools in the final phase, it is the approval of the implementation of curricula and vocational high school programmes, I have been stressing the vocational high school since the school year 2012-2013, which will introduce professional high school education in Croatia and that of the School of Economics, Technical High School and Tourism High School. In Zadar private high school, we have approved two experimental high school programs that have been proposed and developed by the schools since the following year. We're doing a lot of work to improve art schools. We have approved the implementation of curricula and programmes, for example. at the Music School in Makarska, Josip Runjanin Music School in Vinkovci and thus gave additional support to artistic education. When it comes to vocational schools, it's very important, 70% of children are in vocational schools. Since the school year 2012-2013 we will first approve bilingual teaching in three vocational schools. So far, bilingual classes have been conducted only in high schools, and these experimental programs go to Varazdin County, Engineering and Transport School, Construction, Natural History, Mining School in Varazdin and the Economic School in Varazdin. I'll read it to you now. It is because of these schools that we have approved the implementation of professional curricula, completely new, in 24 vocational schools in Croatia. I'm going to make them confess to these schools on purpose. School of Economics in Požega, Technical School in Požega, Engineering Technical School "Faust Vrančić" in Zagreb, Certnica School in Bjelovar, Central School of Engineering Frana Bošnjakovića in Zagreb, Faculty of Engineering in Dubrovnik, Certnica School in Sisak, Medical School in Zadar, High School of Bedekovčina, Industrial-Obrtnička school in Nova Gradiška, High School of Topusco, High School in Đurđevac, Educational and Cultural Centre in Osijek, Industrial-Obrtnička school in Sisak, Isidora Kršnavo High School in Nasice, Obrtrtnička school in Koprivnica, High School in Koprivnica, Art School of Antuna Horvat in Đa, School of Engineering-Tehredna Goražna Goražina, Prirščina Obrovna Gorica, Prirština School in Korovna Gorica. These are schools that improve the quality of vocational schools in Croatia with their innovative programmes. By 1 April 2012, in primary and secondary schools and dormitories, we approved 120 new full-time jobs. Otherwise, of those 500 places I have already mentioned the most wanted jobs is hiring auxiliary and technical staff. So I said 500 seats, 200 and something's for professional associates, there's still auxiliary technical staff. So if you build someone a new school, a new sports hall, a school kitchen, then it's logical that you have to hire auxiliary staff to make that kitchen work, so that this school gym can also work. The position of professional associates and administrative staff shall be approved on the basis of the performance coefficient prescribed in the national pedagogical standard of primary education and education until 31 December 2017. It is therefore necessary to ensure, in accordance with the criteria laid down in that standard in all schools, that the prescribed number of professional associates is ensured. And that's the task of us for the next period. You remember here the first law, the first amendments to the laws we proposed, our ministry, concerned the appointment of a director, and then I was accused of probably trying to re-introduce some kind of party obedience, likeness. So here are my colleagues and colleagues, due to the end of my term to the principals of primary and secondary schools, I have issued 164 prior consents, of which 150 primary school principals, 14 school principals, and I have not issued only one consent. Only one agreement on the basis of the minutes of the school board where certain illogicalities were imposed in the selection of that person. What's very important is adult education for the rest of your life. The development of a project documentation for the European Agenda for Adult Education in 2012-2014 is under way, for which we have allocated 200 000 euros, of which the EU will grant us 162 000 euros of grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7351	You can cut the Ministers short a little bit, and you'll get the word one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7352	You got it. The project aims to promote adult education, raise participation in adult education programmes and acquire key competences in adult education. And we continued the implementation of the Croatian literacy project, which provides 4.2 million kuna, and in 2012 thousands of participants have already completed this large project that needs to raise the level of literacy in Croatia. So it's just one little segment we've been doing for the past four months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7353	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You'll get a chance when you're looking. And we are following a list of registered representatives to discuss this proposal for 10 minutes. The first to apply is the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There were a lot of debates and those who disagreed with this proposal, but also who publicly stated on behalf of the club that they would not support the adoption of such a proposal and who spoke about the work of Mr. Minister, which should be done further. Of course, good advice always comes in handy, but I would especially like to point out that in this very short time, and that's why I'm sorry that we don't have any other institute that we can practically say as a court, so be free because there's no evidence, exactly the opposite. In this short time of 3.4 months, Minister Jovanovic and the entire government showed, they did their best and did everything they could in that situation, and when a man did everything he could in that situation, he did everything. And whoever's not happy with it, who's making fun of it, who says they haven't left enough money because there won't be enough funds. We know how to do much better things and much cheaper, these are your material evidence. Three to four times a kilometer of road cost less than 2000 to 2003, and I believe that such policy will continue in any segment. This is just a price parameter than you did, and that's why the funds seem to be small. So, basically with this proposal, gentlemen, the promoters, and it's good, not all of us are the same, that's what Prime Minister Milanovic said openly, and many of us have said, we're really responsible to citizens, and we're not all equal, neither are the parties equal nor are all parties equal, so that's what you're showing this proposal. And not only with the proposal but also with the way you treat this subject. It takes a little more objectivity. So let us not pretend, and indeed, after all this, pretend, some of you, I will not put them all in the same basket, innocent as the chiefs. And why the responsibility was ruling. I won't talk about any criminal responsibility, we talked about it and we knew what would happen if there was a p of justice in Croatia. But the government needs to be understood, if someone is responsible for something that is responsible for everything, rather than being involved in everything, and responsible for nothing. If ever a boss creates such a fear that no one dares to stand up to him then it's not about the autocratic regime, it's about a highly corrupt regime because everyone knows the consequences. That's what the gentlemen are talking about, and that's why you're so much more, you wanted to say something about Minister Jovanovic, and you basically said everything about yourself. You won't be defended by yellow or black sticks. Because I really don't think that everyone involved some of them didn't even know, but the way it happens is basically you think that it's enough to be one or two, three people in front of the court. We're talking about a much more important thing here, and I think we should be concerned in the future about competing for voter favor, who's great, who's very good, in that sense, and not who's below all levels. So model and that is why we should need in the Croatian Parliament a model of a government that is more like a simple one parameter which can no longer happen in Croatia and which eventually laws in certain segments that happened as really that stage case to see what is happening and that we simply prevent it. That would be one responsibility. Because you see, what you are now putting on the burden, which is being put on Minister Jovanovic's burden. That is, he reduced the budget, that he proposed a smaller budget. That's what I've already said. Not only has he done so far, the entire government. I think it's both credit and government, because no minister can be successful unless it's a joint government action. Of course, his, that individual determination and the way a single minister does it is that in that initial, in one input, they are very important. Croatia too is full of ministers who do not create a storm in one way or another. He did not say any of these words of his work, and some other ministers would create storms and unsuspecting resistances. Well, that's normal! That's something that might have caught us. We were aware that no one would praise us for good deeds, but we were not so aware. We were pretty naive about it that those whose interests would be the sharpest. But I always remember that occasion of a crime professor who said, but obviously it only later came to the ears "the thieves are impertinent". When you thieves catch him, he won't start apologizing, he'll start attacking you. If there's nothing against you, they'll remember grandparents who didn't like cats or who knows what. What else does the minister put on the burden? That he led the Croatian public astray, and he did more and that's where religious science is mentioned. You know, I went to religious school for 16 years. And please, there won't be any luck for a religious scientist until he becomes confesic again, and he doesn't seem to count anymore. And these are issues that must also be opened. Everyone who cares about religion, not manipulation. For the question was raised, all of us were the majority and those who disbelieved were believers, believing that he would win the results. But they're not good results, they're not good results because children don't go to church science anymore, and it's primarily religious to be in church. What else is put on the burden of Minister Željko Jovanovic? To speak with hate and to promote aggression. Yeah, we're here. The one who lies is the one who says whatever he says because that lie is great, attracts and no one doubts her. But whoever tells the truth is exiled. Not just the minister. There's a minister now. The most common man, a worker in which factory when he warned of certain irregularities about what happened to him? And today he's out of a job. And until we bring in these people who have been expelled because of the truth, lost their jobs, their families have been killed, we will fail in both moral and material ways. So, gentlemen of the HDZ, stay out of the dark, clear your ranks and stay out of the party. Because they're also, they're no longer internal issues. Whoever goes out on the public stage has the right to talk about things that happen at home because they're all public stuff. So what you did to the Croatian state is known where there was a cashier in a black bag, accounting was buried in the garden, etc. So, fraud, fraud, bribery, stealing votes at the state level. Now we see these models you're repainting the code... Don't you dare call yourself a dead end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Help as much as you can or at least do not bother while Croatia sees the wounds you gave it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7355	Thank you, well-respected MPs. We've reported one correction of an incorrect quote and one replica. First correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Anticevic-Marinovic, you said they were not good results of religious science. Well, you know, that's not true. And first of all, you're not as qualified to value it. For example, you value colleagues dearly that the government has done everything, made great efforts and achieved significant results. Look, I agree with you. So she achieved the results that increased VAT. Fuel prices are up. The price of gas has increased. The price of electricity has increased. The number of unemployed has increased. It seems to me like she in medicine surgery succeeded, and the patient died. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7357	You too, Your Honor. A respected representative, Josip Salapic, applied for the replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7358	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Anticevic-Marinovic, I have raised the line for two reasons. First of all, we at the HDZ Club think our proposal is objective, and in an individual debate, you spoke a little subjectively to me. We HDZ members in power were in Croatia for 17 years, you were in one term. In the mandates of our ministers, there were many mistakes, so the voters in the elections punished us. We gave up those people who were involved in crime and corruption. Our government and Mrs. Kosor did it, even though we lost the election because of a sharp struggle and we are aware of it. But we are aware that we new and young generations of HDZ will not be hostages of the past, crime or corruption. We believe that Mr Jovanovic is a longtime representative in the Croatian Parliament, doctor of science and minister, and that only one part of Croatian football problem, no matter how difficult, serious and which we need to deal with, cannot be addressed in such a dictionary. It's these names that the minister said were to spit in a mirror in stadiums through various cheerleading groups that they are to be replaced, chased, put in jail and so on. We did not protect those persons, but we called on the minister that this dictionary for one doctor of science and minister in the Croatian Government which you have proposed and which we discussed in the Croatian Parliament is above all inappropriate. And it's okay that the minister said he apologized if he said something he shouldn't have said. And it would be fair if we as a party warned that he did it immediately, because Minister Jovanovic is not focused on HDZ that we are talking about Minister Jovanovic all the time. We could set this up for Mr. Linic's VAT, we could set up Mr. Cacic. There are other members of the government whose work the HDZ must be manifested. We are the largest opposition party and it is our duty to warn about what we consider to be not good, and HDZ has a future in Croatia. We have been building Croatia for 17 years, and we are the HDZ government at the most difficult moment for HDZ, and because of the cases we lost the elections, it is not because of Mrs Kosor, but because of those people who mismanaged HDZ. We've been punished in the elections. We will fight for a stronger, new, modern HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7359	Thank you very much. We are going to discuss the next respected representative, Ivanko Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister and the Honorable Minister. Well, today, we really listened to different thoughts on one side and on the other, why trust and why ask the question of confidence to Minister Jovanovic. Well, in one of his opening statements, the minister said we won because we offered a better program. Regardless of what you did in Plan 21, the Kukurik coalition swore to the Minister of Education and Science as the basis for the development of society, you already reduced the budget at the first visible step. My colleague Ingrid doesn't have any, but I'll tell her, it's not a minor reduction in the education and science budget. There are no planned funds under the collective agreement, and am I repeating what I said in one of the corrections of incorrect allegations, will it happen again in 2003 that people in schools will have to seek their rights in court? I wouldn't want that, really. I'm glad what you just said in your presentation that you're going to hire all of these 500 new jobs because we really need 200-odd school associates first and foremost. I just don't know where he pays for those new 500 jobs I respect you recorded the situation really missing in schools if we won't have enough money for what we have right now. We are aware of the economic situation not only in Croatia but also beyond. We are also aware that we should also save, but if we are in favour, and constantly in this assembly we advocate, and while you were an opposition and you and your pronoun that education and science and the key to development, teachers and teachers are underrated, that investment in education is not a cost, that quality education costs me then I am really surprised in the opinion of the Government that sent us on the matter of confidence of Minister Jovanovic that it is possible to achieve all of his goals with these reduced resources. I'm not going to quote, but I'm going to quote something else that was said a year and a half ago in the assembly since our colleague's office, and now Deputy Minister of Education. "I understand that the financial situation is difficult, but the salaries of teachers and teachers are today below the level of average salaries in public services, almost the average of salaries in the state although it is exclusively highly educated people or almost exclusively highly educated people." I quoted from the phonogram the 2011 budget debate in this section of education of current Deputy Minister Mrs Lugaric. Well, you see what it's like to watch when you're an opposition, and you see what it's like to fight for a piece and increase the resources for education when you're in power. You've promised us a lot of things in your program, since the introduction of new programs, civic education, health education, I won't list, but I'm sure you've kept your faith the most. I won't repeat what kind of religious science or what, but believe it in schools has caused great confusion your guidance that religious science should be the first or last hour which is impossible. All those who worked in schools, who have any organizational ties to education, know that it's almost impossible. Every class in school, every teaching class, every program has its own educational, educational and functional goals, and not a single subject can be just the first or the last hours. Those who worked in schools know that well. You also forgot that additional and additional classes are being held in schools, that teaching is taking place in special forms of work, for example. in different groups. What did you do in these four months and what was your primary? It's me as a person who's been working on education that's really startled. I'll tell you. Not because I'm against sports, though, but you've dedicated your priority to the ministry's work to football. It's not sports. It's football. I'd give you credit if you were a student sport, if you were taking special care of school sports, or I'd say so. "less protected" sports that are amateur, which are not professional. Football is something that must be dealt with by law, but which must be dealt with most with by the CNS. Don't give yourself that priority that football is your priority in sports. I also hope that these 45 people who are employed at the Sport Administration will really do everything possible to have less violence on our sports grounds, to introduce more order, but also to improve sport and sports in schools. But something that I'm going to talk about here, which is especially how you pointed out, I'm going to try to quote you right now in this statement: "My ministry has children, students and athletes at the centre of attention." I welcome that, but I also ask you not to forget that there are people who are professional in your ministry who are officials. Most of them without any political omen and it's terrible to read on the facebook some of your closest associates who, in their freestyle and the same people who have implemented a whole series of reforms, have brought a whole series of good laws by which you are doing because what you have today listed to us are just technical matters of different consent. On employment, consent to the appointment of directors, consent on approval for new programmes, in preschool education, in primary and secondary schools, consent to the opening of new art programmes, and one of the last laws is the Law on Art Education that we have adopted in the previous term of this Parliament. So, people like that call untouchable sacred cows who do nothing, they're full of people like that, and they've been doing fair work in this ministry for years. However, something that no one has mentioned today why I should ask the ministers if you are a good person as a person for the head of the Ministry of Education? That's why Ministers, because you can't just take care of education and science in your ministry. We forgot some colleagues and colleagues who had worn school long ago, and that is the educational component, a very important component in school that completely neglected and lost. No one talked about her today. I believe that the Croatian school must also take care of the educational component. Anyone acting honorably in the ministry in the Croatian government should be the moral verticals of society. Imagine what would happen to one teacher, one teacher at school if you said to a student class, look in the mirror and spit in what you see. Beyond any ethical norm. My dear colleagues and colleagues, I think you'd be quite punished. Not just from the authorities, but from the parents. He'd be marked. If we weren't morally, we'd be really answering. So I think Ministers that you really need to keep an eye on when, who and how you point it out. I'll tell you one situation, after that statement you made, I was passing by the playground next to my building. You won't believe it, the kids were arguing about whether they were gonna play that little football or basketball, because we had these props and they were texting each other like that. That is why I cannot accept it as a teacher that the government responds although Minister Jovanovic rarely uses a picturesque style of expression, the fact is that his words are often mistranslated and interpreted. Unfortunately, those words are heard by our children. Imagine, once again, that in school spaces where you can hear all sorts of words, inadmissible communication, even hate dictionaries, unfortunately even hate dictionaries thus justify such talk at school as an educational institution. I don't think any of us would agree to that, and none of us would support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7361	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A single replica was reported to your presentation. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7362	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I deliberately responded to the replica that my colleague could answer me, so I won't abuse the institution of correcting an incorrect quote, although there are many. counterpart Roksandić, on the bench next to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, is sitting Mr. Jovanovic, who is only human, only human. And you expect a man to solve problems that have been piling up for 20 years in 100 days, and there's a lot of trouble, believe me, because I'm coming from that system. Many of these problems have arisen for the past eight years. And here in the short time I have, let me just look back on some things and some legacy that this man has to deal with. First of all, why isn't there any money? Because it was spent irrationally, it didn't go well. Croatian national educational standard does anyone remember him more? How much money was spent on this, on a project that definitely did not live in the school, which did not give the desired results, which did not bring into the educational process what we expected from this programme, not to mention the introduction of a bologna that was done too quickly, often and lacking, and what students, professors and all those respected employees in the ministry and employees that the ministry pays, which you mentioned first of all on your skin. And I know that as a teacher and as a teaching practitioner, because I've been told, from today on, you're working on HNOS. And what is HNOS? Nobody knows that. Perhaps a minister of the time, but no one but him. You left us with the situation as it is, and as far as sports are concerned, as far as football is concerned, the Republic of Croatia singles out significant assets in sport. And I believe that where taxpayers' money is spent there, the public has the right to know what's going on with them. Good things are not happening, and I therefore welcome Mr Jovanovic's insistence to change that and to draw the public's attention to that. And finally, the educational component is important and it's not in school, but that's the problem of a deeper problem in society, and I think it's unfair to expect a minister to solve such a problem. It's a problem that we all have to deal with but first of all from our own families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7363	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a response to the replica. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7364	Thank you fellow, I've really been in the education system for 33 years and I appreciate that the minister is just a man under what I believe you've realized is not alone and can't do a lot of things alone. The minister has very good associates who I believe will do something together, but you can't do it here is not a thing to measure as much as it was done at this point in four months, because if we went to measure it, it would be a different debate. But I want to warn you you said and alone in 20 years is a lot we learn, 22 years is the becoming of this country. So brand-new programs, a whole new system. I'm 22 years old in 33 years and 34 apologize to my internship really went through a phase from a teacher like you, a teacher or a teacher, but we're the education director, the head of social activities to the man who's here in this situation talking to the other point of view of the law and law enforcement in the ministry. And I can tell you that we worked in different and turbulent times. You can't say it didn't happen much. Big reforms have been made. Big reforms, and this is to discuss individually whether I've dealt with myself or you've dealt with HNOS or not how someone's spent on the ground or in schools this problem is individual from school to school. But from the reform of vocational education, which the minister spoke of to the new law on education, I will cut short because I am running out of time, much has happened. But there's something I need to tell you from 2003 to 2012 with the union agreement 61% was supposed to increase the education worker's salary. Well, then let's not say that even the educators didn't take care of them. Yeah, until 2012. I'm not saying everything was ideal. In the education of colleagues and colleagues, everything will never be ideal, is it a very, very complex area.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7365	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. The next one for a ten-minute debate was registered by the respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7366	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You are presented with respected colleagues and colleagues with a proposal by HDZ to launch a trust issue to Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In response to the Government's response, he wrote a proposal to raise the issue of trust, Dr. Željko Jovanovic, Dr. Med., Mr.oec., Minister of Education and Science. So, in response to the government, I all believe in the effort and work of the minister-deserved title of Minister Jovanovic. That's two, three things, Mr. Minister. He says that you are an academic citizen of the Republic of Croatia, that you are a doctor of science, I said in response to the replica of my colleague and longtime representative in the Parliament and that you are today Minister of Government. Your speeches and performances in the Croatian Parliament in opposition left an echo in public. You have had a strong dictionary, you have fiercely criticised the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the last 2.5 years of the term of office, and we have seen and assessed that as a representative you are fighting for your party to come to power in Croatia. You've been warning me about your problems, and we've been listening to you as agents. It is one thing to speak in the Parliament, and another to speak as minister of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have proposed this proposal on the basis of the trust of voters who gave the vote to HDZ. We're here at Club HDZ 47. Despite problems in Croatia and problems in the party, HDZ has not disappeared from the political scene. I believe that we are still the leading opposition party in Croatia and that after the internal elections, we will become a stronger and more modern European party and no one can stop it. What we object to you, Mr. Minister, is that your performance, your energetic speech, your messages are not good. In our proposal, we have listed several thesis that we consider not good for you as a person, as a minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. At least we expected your apology and what you said today in part would be fair. We know we don't have enough hands or voices in the House to relieve you from the post of minister. You have not received the trust of HDZ but have received the trust of your Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, your Government and your constituents. But let HDZ as a party that created this country, as a party that introduced Croatia into the EU, say what it thinks about your work. We are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, it is our duty and obligation, so we are paid, chosen to speak what we think. Is that what anyone likes or doesn't like about it? That's what we're different. You got the votes of your voters, we got the votes of our voters. There are many of them and there may be many who today would change their political stance if the elections were today or tomorrow. That's what our citizens and those who chose us judge. Our work books are not in the employment office, our work books are in the hands of voters, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We think, Mr. Minister, that at least in a few steps, you've sent messages to the public, to Croatian youth, to people who follow football, who go to games, who cheer for Dinamo, for Hajduk, for Osijek, for Rijeka, for your city, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that our youngsters are a little lost. The fact of violence, the fact of alcohol, the fact of drugs, the fact of fights, the fact of national misunderstandings at games, the fact that young people are a little bit and a half years old, but also by the society in which we live, is a bad message for you at least. You've announced that you're going to run the government differently, your portfolio that you're going to be solving problems in football and that's why you've been given a mandate. And we support you to solve the problem in football, but we do not support you sending a wrong message to any young man in Croatia and it would be fair and fair if you admitted it. And we're aware that we won't get most of you in this home to be replaced. We gave you a warning as a person, we gave you if you wanted to and on political importance, and they were other ministers and vice-presidents of the government that we could talk about working badly, we decided on you this time because you were often speaking publicly, and by us, you were wrongly sending messages to HDZ. I think that if at some games it's on the verge of an incident and it beats that you as a minister can't say that anyone spits so it can be misunderstood, your call can be called to hit someone, to hurt someone, and that the young man misunderstood what the minister in the government is saying, and that's bad for us. And you can say that we made a mistake, and we objectively believe that we didn't. As government minister at your SDP meeting in Poreč, you spoke of the Croatian Parliament. The fact is that you said here that the House is a henhouse, that it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure, that it is necessary to treat the correct allegations differently, that the replicas should be treated differently, but I believe that this should be said by Mr. Šprem, Mr. Leko or someone from your coalition who behaves in office in the Croatian Parliament. You're the executive authority. The Minister who was elected in the Croatian Parliament, the highest representative body in Croatia, we are the legislative authority and your government and you have come from this House and I believe that someone from the Croatian Parliament should have said that. You have the right to do so, you can say that you are not satisfied with the way it has been spoken in the Parliament over the past 20 years in Croatia about the Rules of Procedure, replicas, the corrections of the incorrect allegations, but we are a parliamentary country. From our home here we make laws and here we decide on the Rules of Procedure and the way the Croatian Parliament will work and we all participated in this together, both HDZ and SDP and HNS and HDSSB and HSP, all of them. That's why we have to do this together, that's what a representative of the legislative authority should say. We have warned as a party, we have expressed concern when we have discussed the state budget, that we do not have enough resources and that we are afraid there will not be enough money for employees' salaries in science and education, higher education. You've denied us today, but by the end of the year we're all still here, we're gonna follow what you're doing. We have only as a party, as politicians and as a person, some of my fellow MPs and former ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia warned that it is not enough, which does not necessarily mean that you, Mr. Minister, have today, in your response, told the lie. We'll see about that by the end of the year. We fear that some projects in science are disappearing, that there are fewer scientists, scientific recruits and young people who need to build Croatia's future through science. We are aware of our past, and we are aware of the present, but also of the future. We are HDZ and we will fight as a party for Croatia's future and we have the right to do so. We are representatives of the Croatian Parliament and we must talk about what we believe is not bad in your government. We are now an opposition, but with our attitude and speech we can either improve or make your work worse. We believe that the messages, moves and the way in which you have done wrong these 100 days of your government and our mission as a representative of the HDZ is to warn us and we have, in accordance with the law, the Rules of Procedure and all applicable rules in the Croatian Parliament, submitted this proposal and it is logical that you disagree. But for you colleagues and colleagues, it is much easier from the past of the Croatian state in 17 years to extract individuals who have not done well and who have done evil to Croatia above all, and also to our foreigners and we have given up these people publicly and we have sent a message that HDZ does not support either crime or corruption or anything bordering the law. And these people are in prisons or courtrooms today. But we are representatives of HDZ still in the Parliament. And our party may lose the election, but pride and cheek will never and we will fight for HDZ. You're ministers like, so everything's allowed today in the Parliament of colleagues and colleagues. You may like what I'm saying or not, but I'll talk. I listened carefully to all of you, and I was in your discussions and on committees when we were working together. And you, Mr. Minister, were in charge of the Corruption Council. And that's where we used to argue about fighting corruption, and that's where we used to argue. But one attitude is Croatia is on a good path thanks to the work of our government and the president of our government and the party of Mrs Kosor we have introduced Croatia into the European Union and that is a fact. We have had a difficult situation in the last days of Parliament's work. We passed a number of laws where you colleagues and colleagues left the assembly. At some key moments at the last end of the term of office, you were not in the Assembly, and these laws have enabled the conclusion of Croatia's negotiations and entry into the European Union. These are the facts that our party is proud of no matter what. And we have called you ministers to account for the way you express yourself, your actions that we consider not to be good. And we won't replace you. We warned and invited the prime minister to come forward and come to the Parliament. We've also asked you to resign, and now we've also invited representatives to discuss your work. We find that fair. That is what we consider our duty and we believe that HDZ is right. And this morning, colleagues and colleagues went wrong. I got on my speech to shut up, to shut up. I've never told any of your MPs. And when someone talks when we make fun of a man, when we think he's a fool, that he's talking nonsense, then we're not worth being an advocate because we don't have to think the same thing. That is why Croatia is a parliamentary country and that is why we have changed Croatia. And that is our treasure, and it should remain for those who will come after us to this assembly of Parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7367	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single correction of an incorrect quote and two replicas reported. The first correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7368	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Honorable representative Salapic made an incorrect allegation that he characterised his debate as constructive this morning, and what followed as negative. Dear Mr. Salapic insulted all Croatian defenders from the Kukuriku coalition sitting here in this House this morning, insulted all mothers who voted for the Kukurik coalition, who left their sons at Croatian battlefields. As usual, he tries to manipulate the Croatian public with claims that HDZ created a Croatian state which is a notorious lie. The Croatian state was created by Croatian citizens, by all those victims who died in the Homeland War, by all workers who worked honestly in the logistics of the Croatian Army, by all farmers who worked fields to feed citizens in the Homeland War Let me finish another 10 seconds. [[Intruder Leko: Thank you very much, esteemed representative.]] Croatia was defended while they created billionaires from the conductors. [[You've already been half a minute. Here you go.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7369	Thank you, too. The replica was applied for by a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic for the presentation of counterpart Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Salapic, let me use the words of a great philosopher Walter who said, "I may disagree with what you say but I will fight to death for your right to say it." I think this debate itself is proof that HDZ can and is its democratic right and that it should be, as it is the job of the opposition to present and warn about the problems it sees in the controversial in Croatia, so be it ministers or some deeper problems so that I don't see that problem. I'm also glad you're quoting the late SDP president, Ivica Racan, when you say elections can be lost, but cheeks don't. But allow me a few more words about the messages of young people, because I'm not sure how much one minister can actually send a message to young people, and if he can, then I'm curious about what these messages are to the young people of "we'll get rid of the cousin", "little vitre", "they won't impose our opposition", Fimi Media, black funds, etc. I think it's much worse messages to young people than this claim that in football there's something rotten, which is evident to everyone that it is. And believe me, all the young people didn't take it negatively, but they said there's a man who finally wants to bring order to that football. As for science and scientists, young people, I'm glad you noticed. But remember the current clock so at the beginning of this session when my question was precisely about this Minister sitting here with us today, Mr Jovanovic. He said what the ministry is planning to do with it, so I wouldn't owe it. And finally, my colleagues, if the situation were in HDZ, and the HDZ was really the way you described it, so maybe I'd consider being a member. But it's not like that. Unfortunately, you haven't gotten rid of all the corrupt elements in your circles and that's what's controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7371	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7372	I agree with my colleague, Honorable Hajdukovic. We come from the same city that I said well what I said at the beginning of what you looked at, and you agree with me that here is the talk of the Minister of Croatia and this Government, that it is said about the person who, taking this resort, is responsible for young people, for primary, secondary and higher education. And every public message from the minister comes to young people, and this is all that you've listed, and I told you, it's much easier for you to get people who are no longer in this House or in HDZ but are where they should be. And I'm today, I'm going to thank the colleagues who told you about what I said. I'll say thank you to my colleagues. You are Mr. Representative Hajdukovic we must fight for a different Croatia. If you're going to get something out of the past and call the future HDZ for something that has nothing to do with us, then you're wrong, and that you're thinking about being a member of the HDZ, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7373	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7374	It is good that some colleagues are recognized in some statements. It's okay, and you're thinking that HDZ can think about it and you've chosen your option and stick to it. We in Slavonia have enough good personnel and HDZ is a strong party there and it will remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7375	Thank you, too. Next replica on your basic exhibition, respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7376	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Apparently, counterpart Salapic saw it from previous discussions that it was not important Minister Jovanovic, but that the government, the coalition government, was trying to attack that it did not crack or cut a Gordian knot within three months, which someone had bound for 17 years. First of all, I stand for tolerance and tolerance. While we insult each other, we will have a very small reputation among the citizens of Croatia. It's a first. But the problem is, you don't recognize when you insult. For example, this morning, I have to go back to it, it is an countless times to get out of your benches, and I am the fifth term in the Parliament, and I have heard a lot of it, the countless times insinuating, planting and lying in the worst possible way and burning the worst possible passions by telling us that we are de facto people who are questionable about Croatia's interests. Or to be simpler by you we are suspicious Croats, we are against Croatia. That was what you said this morning. And the reaction tied up was that the dictionary could be inappropriate, but it's humanly understandable. And what you did when you claimed it was a billion times harder than anything that MP Jovanovic said in this House. Or as a minister. And you insulted the majority of Croatian citizens, i.e. The part that voted for this coalition. You don't notice it, there's a problem that you don't see it when you do it. And to tell you the dictionary so I know I asked about it in the famous Split Square and that affair, it didn't answer my question, but my relatives were finely offended in the 100th generation, so I don't remember any of you standing up and saying, Mr. Sanader, my President, don't insult a man, answer him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7377	Time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7378	Unfortunately, if it wasn't you, but from your ranks, and it was our truth, the reality I mean that should be changed. It's been a while, but I'm appealing to it, I think you just look in the mirror and see yourself. That's why you look in the mirror, nothing else. Like me and anyone else. And Mr. Jovanovic used to apologize when he needed to apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7379	Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7380	Yes, it is. Then you didn't read the interviews on the paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7381	Please allow the Rules of Procedure and the Chairman to act in the Assembly. I'll give you my word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, sign up the board as scheduled. So, a reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7382	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague extended one minute, and then I could, and he's not exactly in the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Jurjevic, I taught 7 years at the Faculty of Law history of Croatian law and state and the fact is that on June 25th, '91. The year SDP left the assembly. And I didn't mean to offend anyone today, and least of all you MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but your speeches today were speeches that offended and spoke that mocked us who spoke. I said it out of my political stance without insulting you, especially Mr. Jurjevic, who are the five mandates in the Parliament. That was my last intention. And I didn't insult anyone personally, and you shut it yourself. We believe that as an opposition, we cannot applaud what you did not announce in the campaign when you fought to win the election. We can't clap the VAT increase to 25%, we can't clap the daily collection of electricity, fuel, gas, we can't clap if Croatian citizens don't live better and you said it would be better. We can't clap what's not right. And we believe that as HDZ, we have the right. You said we weren't good, and your moves you didn't announce to voters say something quite the opposite about your program, and I'm sure you won't last your term until the end if you keep doing so. That message must be clear to everyone. I didn't insult anyone. And sometimes you, when you speak, sometimes all of you, when you speak, take out people who are not worthy to be mentioned more in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7383	Thank you, too. I would say such respected representatives and respected MPs you all know that you cannot answer the words spoken in the Croatian Parliament, but the criminal responsibility should not be the one who ricks the speech in the Croatian Parliament but the honesty, conscience and responsibility to the citizens and responsibility to a colleague in the Croatian Parliament who has the right to represent his views and views of those who chose him. To be clear, allow everyone to express their position without the need to discredit others, insults because they have offended themselves and their constituents who sent him to the Croatian Parliament. Stay away from insults, represent policies and represent citizens. Thank you very much. We're going to discuss it further than 10 minutes. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. There you go, dear MPs. ... Tomic's next at my place complex. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, no. Here you go, we respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7384	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Proposers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to this even though I did not intend to replicate any HDZ MPs, but I must refer to some statements specifically from colleagues Salapic and colleagues, Roksandic. In fact, counterpart Salapic said HDZ was a party that created the state and introduced it into the EU. A colleague has already said it is not true, but as far as EU entry HDZ has indeed had a historic chance in the 1990s to introduce Croatia into the EU before Bulgaria and Romania. It's a shame! Furthermore, I don't know why you've been making all this point about the fact that you're the leading opposition party? Who do you assure us or you? I don't get that either. As for her colleague, Roksandić, she was a little more honest in her debate, so she pointed out one important thing that I absolutely agree with, which is the educational component and the return of the educational component to the education system that has really been missing for the past 20 years. Why is that? Exactly because HDZ killed the autonomy of teachers in chambers. So much for replicas. Now, as far as your proposal is concerned, the truth pains us to agree. The problem is when that truth becomes and becomes vindictive. It is your case now directed against Minister Jovanovic. It's hypocritical, hypocrisy is nothing new when it comes to HDZ. That's what we're used to during these 20 years of your actions. But I mean personally I'd forgive hypocrisy, but what I can't possibly forgive is your actions over the past 20 years. It's conversion and privatisation, the HDZ model. A colleague of Jadranka Kosor who now wants to correct the incorrect allegations does not allow me to say why this is important. It is very important because, apart from the conversion and privatisation and the black funds that they cannot accept, these are the things called on Minister Jovanovic as a representative in this House and said he called HDZ the name most citizens and considered HDZ. There's no future HDZ, Mr. Salapic. There's no such thing. There's only the current HDZ. Unfortunately, the only thing you left for us in Slavonia is a reformed HDZ in the form of a 5-letter party, unfortunately. And in the end, I don't want to be any longer because I said I'd be brief. I'm going to ask just one question, how is it possible that if the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being prosecuted cannot work in the civil service how is it possible that the party against whom the proceedings are being conducted may be participated in the authorities, especially if this criminal case ends with a charge? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7385	Thank you, Your Honor. The honourable representative and vice president of the House of Jadranka Kosor reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we can hear what's going on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7386	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here are all the articles of the Rules of Procedure that talk about holding a session. In fact, you let Agent Tomic not talk about the subject. The topic is a request for the replacement of Minister Jovanovic, and the topic is not HDZ. And you also hurt the Rules of Procedure because you did not reprove him, because you did not point out that he could not insinuate and question the survival of HDZ because it is very dangerous that his colleague Tomic said in the end. Maybe he's not aware, probably not. But what he finally said in other words was translated into that we should be banned from speaking. That's very dangerous, Mr. Vice President. I ask you to direct the course of the debate to the essence of the request for the replacement of Minister Jovanovic, because he does not do his job well or properly in that function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7387	Thank you, too, Your Honor. But I don't accept your position on the breach of the Rules of Procedure for two reasons. First of all, counterpart Tomic spoke about the applicant and the elements that should be contained in the applicant. I don't think he's gone far from the subject. Secondly, I have truly been willing to allow you to speak without calling on the provisions of the businessmen who have been injured. So I didn't think formality was important but essential, so I let you speak. So I don't accept that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are going to continue the debate, and a respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman, came forward. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7388	Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, in fact, is the correction of one or two incorrect allegations, where Mr. MP said Croatia should have been admitted to the EU in the 1990s before Bulgaria. First, Bulgaria was admitted in 2005, not in the 1990s. On the other hand, the thesis that Croatia could have been accepted in the 1990s simply does not stand because, according to EU, EU or European Community leaders, it did not have an enlargement project to Southeast Europe at the time. Let me know a little bit more about that, though, if that's what I've been doing and studying and taking part in it if you want. So the level at which this Assembly discusses certain things is really beneath some elemental level that you can find at any college or study year dealing with these problems. As well as the thesis there is no saying that HDZ is responsible for the creation of the Croatian state but is responsible only for the negativity and everyone else is responsible for the creation. What does that mean? We will then, by the same pattern, by the same methodology, say everything that will be the merit of this government will not be the merit of this government but of someone long. Therefore, at least a dose of such intellectual decency would be necessary in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7389	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replicate reply, respected representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7390	I did not say that Croatia could have been admitted to the EU in the 1990s but rather before Bulgaria and Romania why HDZ should have created the conditions but it was not possible because the whole of Europe was aware of the facts that were happening in Croatia. Robbery. The best example of HDZ rule in the past 8 years, which is returning to this topic but let me just add one fact that we're not talking about in public at all, and I'm sure the minister can confirm that. Your government, your Ministry of Education, paid 4 years in the previous term for renting a ministry building, 1 million kuna per month, which makes up 50 million kuna in your term of office of 4 years. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7391	Thank you very much. The next replica of your presentation is the esteemed representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7392	Dear colleague, that's enough for a smart guy. You called for an individual discussion and you're talking about something that I and Mrs. Roksandić spoke about, and you had article 209. The Rules of Procedure right to correct the incorrect allegations, you were entitled to replication. If you had raised your line... I would have answered you. This is how in your debate, not speaking at all about a single word, you have not commented on the HDZ's position in our proposal or on the government's response to our proposal, but insulted the HDZ. I invite you to do the least you can as a new representative to read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7393	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7394	Here should simply be a correction of the incorrect quote but not a reply to the replica. So it's not even true that I didn't look back on the subject because the topic is banal. Your demand for mistrust to Minister Jovanovic can only be summed up in one word, venet, nothing else. It bothers you that he told the truth at the very end of the term of office of the previous Assembly, the truth that all citizens know. So give the people a little serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7395	Thank you very much. Let's go with the debate forward. Now the next one is... I have no notice at the record desk that you've lifted the board, so I can't even give you a correction to the incorrect quote. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First lift? Is that an honorable word? It's a deal. It's an honorary word. ... /The noise in the hall./... It's not a public show to be offended, we honor the word of honor. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, but I really did have an correction, and that was the first thing I picked up a bunch of colleagues because it bothers me that he said one big inaccuracies or I'd replicate it. HDZ killed a teacher's autonomy in the classroom. I don't know what kind of school you're working at. That's not true. So after 45 years of the 1990s, a new Croatian school gave freedom to a teacher, so why the Croatian national educational standard, why the program for you to enter a part of yourself and your autonomy. How the HDZ abolished autonomy for the Croatian teacher. That doesn't... No, incorrectly, that's what I said was incorrect. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't enter personality into the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7397	Thank you very much. You used the right to correct an incorrect quote Please, please. [[Intruder Ivanka Roksandić: Thank you, Mr Vice President.]] The next debate of 10 minutes is a respected representative, Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here we are here today to discuss the confidence of Mr. Jovanovic and not for no reason but for very many reasons, as we heard in the introduction. In fact, the fact is that this government and so does Minister Jovanovic, very often and every little time, an awkward situation happens and then he inappropriately offends people with his status as minister of education and sports. Today we had on the Committee on Gender Equality and the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities. The same and what we're going to talk about in that report is that it came out of the Ministry of Science, which is Mr. Scansi's statement that we need to valorise the Paralympics differently from the Olympics. Mr Jovanovic now shows some newspaper inscriptions when he did it not willingly but because he was forced into their party. After that, the kids, we have a report from the attorney general for the kids. Mr. Jovanovic, what kind of message do you give to children and those young children when they listen to you along with their parents, unfortunately next to the Dnevnik and when you talk about mirrors to spit in. Is everyone here so you can put that mirror next to you, in front of you and honestly say what you mean. You can't, Mr. Jovanovic. It's not good. It's not good for the health of the nation and for the health of children, what you do. You're talking about a vernacular that needs to be put in the first hour or the last hour. Believe me, in this Croatian religion it is one who wants this people Croatian, Catholic. In the Ombudsman's report for children, Mr. Jovanovic, if you have read only two remarks on religious science, in schools where no substitutes were solved at the time that children could not come. You're full of the mouths of being here if you could assume that you would learn and move, but you won't be able to because you simply won't have an argument. I know you'd like to throw something else. But Mr. Jovanovic, in your presentation, you said several times that you are now offering a new education, a new knowledge country. Well, you see, young people who have completed colleges taught these little over 100 days have realized that unfortunately all their diplomas are falling into the water, dropping in front of SDPs or HNS books. In Plan 21, you didn't win the election because you told the truth, but because you blurted it. Through this Plan 21, you've placed 21 friends, several best friends, several wives, several friends and friends at the leading posts of all state companies. You didn't really care if they were under investigation. I think it's Secretary Holly's statement that that's a mistake and then a statement of confusion because she didn't see a reference to two signed lists. Unfortunately, she is likely to suffer for this, and she has been ordered to write a document that should have been given that someone is not being punished. Mr. Jovanovic, it's hard to run the ministries, be a deputy minister, assistant or secretary of state, it can't be done anymore, you've named so much so I don't know what you're called anymore, and when you see here, you don't have the expertise, you have no competence. I don't know, for me, the Ministry of Science needs to run a minister who's really famous in circles of science, who's known for his publications, who knows what that means. I know it's very difficult for you because, besides politics and congratulations, you've ended up, of course, a difficult medical school, but you've done more or less pharmaceuticals. But it's not you. It's not you. It's not my God's fault. There are more or less ministers and ministerial assistants and you are also your deputy who says that all employees of the Ministry and workers of the lazy sacred cow that you do not respond to, and then you see she did not have 24 hours of work at that school in front of the children and did something to teach them. And that's why we're also Mr. Jovanovic in HDZ, but trust me, not what you said 49% that supports HDZ, which means that only 16% of SDPs support you, I'd imagine if I were you. Believe me, 100% of the HDZ, but most of the SDPs, I think 14%, 49% of your people want you to watch what you're saying, that you respect the place where you are because you're not in your own company, so you can talk or, say, don't sit in the House like you've proven to talk to each other, but be careful. Otherwise, we are rightfully seeking your shift and your responsibility because as Minister of Science through you I do not see this Croatia as a land of knowledge and a country of future for young people. I've never heard of you and I've seen you congratulated young scientists, high school students who brought with them countless medals. I didn't hear that. But I heard you call the athletes, I heard how you treated yourself, how you called our academics old, and they should leave. So do you think that's okay? It is. Then really nothing else if I had one here I'd give you a mirror.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7399	Thank you very much, Đurjica Sumrak. We have one reported replica on your exhibit, two. Okay. First is Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7400	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, I often disagreed with you in your presentations, and this time something a little more than usual. Namely, you spoke well of this I would say an ugly saying and a little bit as I had already said before in a correction of an incorrect quote about one of the mirror's educational components and spit in the mirror. It's just like the ones who looked in the mirror when they said and Jovanovic and who was it? There may be some difference in access. Namely, as far as your statistics are concerned, 49% of HDZ is your statistical error. So it's a sample, not what you thought, wrongly said it was only 16% of the SDPs. So it's a matter of statistics that you didn't understand well. But the late Ivica Racan, so the prime minister, ten years ago, produced a syntagma that spoke and read like this: "From college to work". But this former government of yours, and this one has continued equally this Jovanovic or the SDPs, does not matter. So, today still goes from college to desk, and this other one goes from work to grave. And it hasn't changed anything from you in this new or this new power. Or, not from college to desk, but from an internship of 1600 kuna. And that goes for today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7401	Thank you very much, honourable representative Boris Grubisic. The replica has a respected representative, Gjurdzica Sumrak, replying to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, what you're just saying is you're talking about HDZ. But look, you're talking from college. Isn't it simple for me not to tell you, I'm going to be very courteous that all public tenders have been suspended. So, today's the day someone graduates from college, so there's no way he's answering the contest. Why would it come to you when you can't get a job through a contest? And you see, we didn't cancel these public tenders, and that same child could complain, and there was the possibility of a complaint at the Administrative Court, and there was an opportunity, but unfortunately, today, there's neither a possibility nor an opportunity. Because professional people and educated people aren't necessary here. There's something else you need here. So, we needed a book, and we thought we got rid of it. Unfortunately, yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7403	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7404	Here you go, Your Honor. Mr. Vice President, I've been thinking all along about whether or not he's answering, but when I've been listening to the discussion of my colleagues from HDZ today, I kind of feel like we've been living in the same country for the last 20 years. You talk all the time here about the Kukuriku coalition program and the so-called "Kukuriku" programme. some delusions that the Kukuriku coalition has dropped in its pre-election promises, etc. and God, I don't remember in 2007 when HDZ won the second term of office under the "Let's move on" paragraph that you in your pre-election programme said that the tunnels in Croatia would paint twice, that expensive BMWs would be bought, that the head of customs would run around Croatia with bags and collect money for HDZ and piles of such things. You're talking about leading positions in state-owned companies. Well, you head of state companies here now after four months in those front positions are getting 400,000 kuna severances. You're talking about competitions. So what do you forget about how it was employed in Croatia by writing to Barba Luka and other HDZ leaders? Personal butchers ended up in the Parliament selling buildings to the state. I don't know how you really have the nerve to talk here today in this way. And when you call, you keep coming back to Racan's government in 2003. Well, my colleague Salapic here says this is some new HDZ. Well, there's a new SDP here, so here we are 12 representatives under 35 who weren't the same in 2003 in power even though I think that power was right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7405	Thank you, too. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was again reported by the respected representative Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7406	Mr. Vice President, I refer to Article 213. [[/Intruder Leko: colleagues and colleagues, a little attention. Please.]] Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament I ask you to warn Mr. MPs because he cannot call HDZ representatives and ask the question of how we have cheeks. Indeed, we who are here and we who today speak and defend the interests of both parties and states certainly have Mr. Representative of the cheeks to speak. Yes, Mr. Representative, absolutely. I have both the cheek and the strength and the courage to stand before you and speak of what I think should be spoken of in defense of the integrity of this House, the dignity of each of us. And I won't let you and your colleagues insult us. Mr. Vice President, please warn the SDP representatives that any representative who speaks here probably has a face to say it. And please stop the insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7407	Dear MPs, I would be happy to do so if you would listen to all MPs with the same attention and respond to all MPs with the same attention. Since you seem to be showing me double criteria. I've been listening very carefully to your colleague, Gyurjitsu twilight, so if we have the same meter, then we use that meter all the time. I use it. Thank you very much. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're going forward with the debate. Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a young colleague, just a colleague, Kosor, said that we who stand here are more of us who have a face to look at and speak and point out. Because we haven't tarnished our hands in anything. It was the government of Mrs. Kosor that opened the way for those who did and she said herself a thousand times no names and last names, no friends, no political party. Everyone's supposed to be gossiping. But a young colleague and you need to know and be aware of what you're talking about. You're insulting us. If I say so now and mention it, and I have to do that because you simply insulted all of us, and Mr. Cacic and some other ministers he knows about, you know that they also embezzled not five companies but six of them who shared beans and sausages in front of the hotel yesterday that you built to get the CONIG hotel to get the money from Croatia that you think you're selling. Do you think if you're such an honest SDP guy not to talk about it? You need to talk, buddy. Then we'll know that as a young man, you'll have a clean cheek and sit here and talk to someone else. That's one thing. And it's very ugly to generalize everything, especially those people who are honorable, who sit honorably and do their jobs with honor. If you think it's right that all this government has done to Zoran Milanovic, I'm surprised at you, I'm very sorry. I know it is nice for you to sit here and that you have no objections and that you will defend him for sure, but the actions that Mr. Cacic does, Mr. Milanovic who does nothing and the team who is there in this way, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7409	Thank you very much. We've also heard a replica in this form. We're going to have a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7410	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here it turns out that I'm the last person in the debate, I don't think I'm going to say anything new, there's a lot of it I wouldn't want to repeat myself, but I want to make it clear that I'm not to spit, of course I'm not to spit in my face or in my mirror. It's not even a civilization achievement, and the other thing is Dr. Jovanovic is neither healthy nor hygienically correct because a lot of microbes with such a procedure are spreading. We all know that. But I'm not even into what happened back then. We Democrats, Christians, have a sacrament of confession so that we confess, promise, and do not sin. If you do not value this system please have a nice press conference so call a press conference and say "I Željko Jovanovic Minister of Education and Sports said harsh words, and I am the minister of those young people who copy and simply accept it in some way," and in that part, surely your responsibility as head man in that position is great and you are certainly aware of it. Well, I think that's a good time. But what moved me to perhaps report to the debate was yesterday's session of the Health Committee where we discussed the Attorney General's Report of Persons with Disabilities. Of course, we all immediately come across that law, and here it is, with us is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Welfare, and we all have in some way agreed on how difficult it is for these people to be disabled and how difficult it is to change. And you know what's going on? What happens to those people with disabilities, which is the largest number of objections? It's a social issue. The social problem, dear gentlemen, is because, under all the circumstances that pose severe social problems, but do not doubt that these circumstances, the increase in VAT, the increase in the price of heating, electricity, will certainly not make the position of these people more difficult. And that's why it should be in that part, no matter how it's being measured now, don't share some medals in these or those colors. If it wasn't for the press conference again and loud and clear, "Here I didn't say it, I didn't do it." The third thing I want to say is that it's the principle of justice for everyone. So it's very easy to say in the mouth of the minister that the first hour, the last hour, religion is not important. It's important, it's very important to every young man, a colleague and colleague who gets a good message, the message of love is certainly welcome. And in that part, no one should be belittled or betrothed. At the same time, you keep trying to change textbooks that talk about World War II, etc. And the last thing I'm saying is that here I am, and as a future, I have to always think about my local environment. In some ways, no matter what you say, Mr. Minister about various financial achievements, etc. The fact is, there's less resources. And we are worried about the Koprivnica-Crysing County that the first year of study of the economy is not enrolled in Koprivnica this year. And the other thing, we have serious intentions, and very good intentions with a campus that we want to achieve in our midst. So in that part we put, and the same part on the soul that however you want to improve higher education that this move doesn't feel good to us. Well, in that sense, I want to warn you and give you these tips, of course, on the health side, so spit is not health hygiene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7411	Thank you, too. The esteemed representative for your presentation has reported the replica to the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's an esteemed colleague of mine, I would just like to rephrase that you forgot to say that in response to the government of the Republic of Croatia's response to this interpretation and demand for Mr. Jovanovic's shift, the government has made it clear that Minister Jovanovic rarely uses the picturesque style of expression that this Parliament and this assembly calls a chicken hen and it is accidentally taken out of context. By this segment you forgot to speak and speak, and so and then whether or not someone liked the MPs and MPs sitting in this House to be called a chicken man should like it or not, and it doesn't matter what it is, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia stands behind its minister. Given that some rhetoric by Minister Jovanovic or not in relation to the heads or officials of the Croatian National Guards who have achieved extraordinary results in promoting Croatian sport in the world, even today as we have heard that the 8th players I want to say that the mirror sent to the team of leaders who have dedicated their lives to the development of sports, Croatia cannot be offered a mirror, and then everything else that followed this mirror. Since you have talked about all the negatives in the financial indicators given in this interpretation we can certainly say that there is no school building, no investment in the hall, no everything we have offered to this government and we have come to the conclusion that it could be built by providing land, building permits, the documentation in question and all that has preceded to improve the education system in all segments from primary to regional schools to secondary schools, halls and higher schools. That is why there is no budget, and that is why all the above is certainly true and affirmative, saying that Minister Jovanovic certainly deserves to seek such interpretation and his shift since he used harsh words. Regardless of today's apology that he admits that he was wrong in dealing with parliamentary deputies as well as with HNS leaders, we see that neither this government's response is good nor was he on track to reconcile what is not good... /The speakers speak in the same voice, not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7413	Reply to the replica, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I believe a colleague that each of us has its own style and maybe I have some way. I've been told on the opposite side a lot that gesticulation is my strong suit, but here's the gesture as part of the oratoric skill. So in that part, I am never but certainly Minister of Education and Sports, Minister of Young People, Minister of People who are exposed among other things to all the risks of drugs and all other moments that are certainly one harsh word mainly from the mouth of the minister certainly cannot be received well. But I was more encouraged by this other part of you, so maybe let's say ignoring our rural area, building sports halls, building schools. Because we too dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and in rural areas and our children want to playYou and football and sport and be advanced and effective and they need to be provided with conditions and therefore you are the one who has to provide the means to make everything available to them too. Because other than that, they have to travel to a school 50km, lose their so-called psychophysical voltage during that time. So I appeal to that part also to take care of both our most important and rural environments. I'm sure it's been ignored many times. Not all life in big cities. We too have our needs and desires in the country, but of course we have opportunities. Because that famous French philosopher Jean Paul Sartre said good things came from the province. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7415	Thank you, Your Honor. The word came from the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7417	Excuse me, please. We didn't get a tip on the presidential desk about the replica. Unfortunately, we can't accept every time. We're breaking the rule. Dear Ministers, please go to the pay phone. It's important for us to notice and there are various ways to do it at the table of presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I thank everyone for all the debates that happened today. No matter what you think of me, I'm still a man of dialogue. So I urge you to actively engage in the debate on the upcoming seven laws prepared by my ministry. I'm proud of that to my associates. Seven laws soon arrive in the parliamentary procedure. Give the quality amendments and I guarantee if they're good and qualitative we'll put them in our proposals. And I must correct one untrue Mrs. Sumrak www.mzos.hr see how many congratulations I have sent to all students, all students who have won awards at the most diverse state and world competitions. As a witness, I call on former Minister Ljulja Vokic, whose student won the world's first place in the biology competition, and whom I personally congratulated. My colleagues and colleagues this debate has been a long one we may have spent more quality, but here I will stick to some postulates, and based on what I heard today, the minister must never lie, cheat, steal, spend public money on party and personal needs, not fill in party black funds, not design projects like Fimi Media, which is abused by budget money, and when talking to citizens, the minister must try to send a message so that those to whom the message is intended understand what he tells them. Madam Vice-President Kosor I thank you for your opportunity today to show that I am a minister such as HDZ never had or will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7419	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7420	Mr. Minister is talking about projects on schools what Mr. Milinkovic was saying earlier. However, you forget or I correct you so much that I have submitted amendments to my amendments to the Republic of Croatia for the construction of 4 or 5 schools and sports halls. You refused with reason to build a private-public partnership. I don't know how it was done in Varazdin County. It's a correction. And as for only when Mr. Leco hasn't already let me speak, although everyone here has seen that it was a replica of both Christian and agnostic and atheistic is to say sorry for the spoken word that is not appropriate. I don't think it's appropriate to say the least. And Mr. Milanovic, your head of government, when he collected electricity and gas, said sory can't help it. Even this sory may have made people dry in their pockets a little bit, feeling dry in their pockets. But what I'm saying is I'm shaking or things like that, and we haven't heard about the henhouse here. It really doesn't make sense. Well, here you go, both atheistic and agnostic and Christian, say it wasn't right, and we'll forgive you then.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7421	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Oh, yeah, no one checked in. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7422	It is in the name of the promoter of course as usual at the end of the debate usually in the Croatian Assembly that, in the name of the promoter, someone can say something, so here I will say it. I don't know, Mr. Vice President, why the minister kept talking to me. In fact, it wasn't just me who asked for Minister Jovanovic's shift, but it was the representatives and representatives of the HDZ club that asked for not only me, but I was very pleased to sign the request first. As far as this message is concerned, which we have received from the minister again, I believe that many of you will agree that this is not an appropriate way for the minister to end in the end. It's that style, and it's clear today how it's going to work. So the minister speaks of the minister having to work well, not to lie, not to steal, absolutely agree with it, and it would be good for Minister Jovanovic to look around in his government. Namely, there are some ministers and vice presidents of the government who have written books of the entire book on their malfeasances. There are a number of criminal charges, and of course there are government decisions for which Minister Jovanovic raised his hand, government decisions to refer people with powerful indictments to the head of some important bodies, to put people with first degree malfeasance sentences in order to outdo extremely important public enterprises, etc. Minister Jovanovic should also take a look at it when he talks about others. As far as his findings are concerned, that HDZ would not have such a minister exactly, we would not, because we would always choose a minister who is at least able to speak politely, communicate politely with the public and communicate politely with representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, this debate led by the ruling majority has made it clear that it supports the way and style of Minister Jovanovic. It's clearly summed up in one word: Shut up. So it is clearly summed up in the words and statements and the message of one of your representatives to which you support and that we are a hen, you support all other insults, and that we should look at ourselves in the mirror and the message of spit and so on, and so on. The ruling majority's message in the parliament is to shut up, the message is to shut up and the message is to just continue Minister Jovanovic with insult and disdain. We have not heard almost one word of condemnation from all that we have stated in our proposal to replace Minister Jovanovic. The most important reason is that the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is the budget that stands on glass feet. And they asked my colleagues well, where is Mr. Minister, and I can ask you questions because I am a representative in the Croatian Parliament, where is the Law on fiscal responsibility, and how have you fulfilled the obligations of the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. In fact, the law passed by the government, or the ruling majority, when we led a country that the ruling majority today refused to vote for and refused to cast their vote. The fiscal responsibility law states that each official must resign and be removed if he has presented to the Croatian Parliament an unreal budget and that is what ladies and gentlemen are about. And I don't think there's any need for ministers to communicate politely with the public anymore. I ask and ask the ruling majority to in the future if it is possible to condemn any kind of insolence and any kind of violence because insulting other people is ladies and gentlemen as pure as tears of violence. From spitting in a mirror on your own character to banging your head with a thong is just one small step. The Minister of Science, Education and Sports cannot insult anyone in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, since you've said a lot of words but no one is about this play, about this request, no one about the reasons why we're looking for a minister's shift but you're talking about HDZ and the former HDZ governments. But we will not allow you, I guarantee, to destroy and undo all the achievements that HDZ has made, that is, Croatia headed with HDZ. And joining NATO and joining the EU. With your current behaviour and ignoring Chapter 23, although Croatia is under monitoring, playing the judiciary, the Croatian judiciary you are questioning Croatia's entry into the EU on July 1st next year and I want the ruling coalition to bear in mind, as well as the fact that we can speak freely. Who's June 25, '91? In the meeting here in the Croatian Parliament, he voted for independent, independent and democratic Croatia and who did not vote for the decision. We have a right to talk about it and we will not agree to your historic silence. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7423	Thank you, too. In this House, while the Government of the Rules of Procedure, everyone will have the right to talk about topics that are on the agenda, whether they are from the opposition or from the position. I believe that this is significantly new compared to so far's behaviour in the Parliament. We are for the rule of law and also in the Croatian Parliament. By doing so, we have exhausted all those applied for discussions under the proposal for trust in Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. We will vote on the proposal once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7424	We move on to a statement on the proposal to launch a trust issue for Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. The proposal is proposed by 33 members of the HDZ Club of Representatives. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal to show no confidence in Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. I stress that Article 116, paragraph 5. The Republic of Croatia's constitution for a vote of confidence requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, so 76 votes. I ask once again who is for the proposal on distrusting Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports, to raise his hand. Who's against it? Restraint? I would like to point out that the Minister of Science, Education and Sports voted 24 MPs, with six abstentions, and against it was 80, and I find that the proposal did not receive the necessary majority and that Minister of Science, Education and Sports Željko Jovanovic still has the trust of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7425	Now we're going on the agenda. The next item is - Internal Affairs Minister's report on police affairs in 2011. The report was submitted by the Minister of the Interior pursuant to Article 4. Police law. You received the proposal by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from those committees at the session. Does the applicant want to give an introductory explanation? Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored ladies and gentlemen, MPs and parliamentary representatives. Pursuant to Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union, and in the Official Journal of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 thereof, The law on the Interior Minister's Police at least once a year provides a report on police operations for the previous year, but also answers in a situation where the Parliament requests and reports on police affairs in any other situation. So if Mr. Vice President would allow me just before I start with the 2011 report, I would also file a report on the police treatment that was today, in accordance with your request at this morning's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7427	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7428	The trade court in Split requested, in its conclusion 12 ST46/12 of 13.4.2012, the assistance of police officers for the day 18 April 2012 to introduce a bankruptcy manager to Jadrankamen, and the same assistance was postponed. The above-mentioned aid was again scheduled for the day of 3 May 2012 at 10 o'clock, which was implemented by the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration Plan, led by the Head of the Department of Public Order and Peace of the Police Department, whose execution was attended by 73 police officers, of which 50 members of the Police Intervention Unit and 23 members of the Brač Police Station. During the appointment of police officers at 5.45 hours, Mr. N.O.S. was arrested without the use of funds. Born in 1957 for the crime of alienating someone else's mobile cause for criminal research. When the bankruptcy manager was introduced into the management building of that company, 10 Adriatic workers resisted in a way that put them in front of the entrance to the specified building, making over eight people use the means of coercion, physical force. One person was detained without the use of funds of coercion and a physical strength and means of binding was used on M.E.S. born in 1984. These persons were detained at 10:15 p.m. in the police premises for criminal research. This study found that 9 persons detained were marked by the infringements referred to in Article 6 and Article 23. The law on violations against public order and peace, and at 13:45, they were released from the police premises. They are followed by the indictment of the competent court of law. Also, it has been established that M.E.S. Born in '84. Achieved the characteristics of the criminal offence referred to in Article 317. The KZ of the Republic of Croatia prevents an official from performing his official duties, which will be against him on a regular basis, and was released from the police premises at 14.00 hours. Police assistance ended at 12.30 p.m. when the bankrupt ferry manager left Brac and security guards remained in the plants. It's about the event itself, and what I think is very important to you Parliamentarians is the sewing that anyone has approved of the police assistance. That may be the most important question for the police. I must say that it has been approved by the Parliament's representatives, not by a specific call, but by those who passed the 2009 Police Power Act, which reads, quote Article 7: "Police are expected to grant resistance in the course of the action." And that's what was done on the basis of a court order. The police have assisted in accordance with the law. And I would ask that it be respected, to defend the rule of law and when the police act according to the law to protect it. If I can go on now Article 4 is replaced by the following: I'm filing a report on police work in 2011. [[Leko: Here are the ministers, you've got the word.]] Of course, no one should be warned or said that it was a report from a period during which I was not the Minister of the Interior. But esteeming the Croatian Parliament is precisely not to have what has actually happened to us for years, which is that although the ministers are not required to file a report, they do not provide an opportunity for the Croatian Parliament to discuss criminality, something that is very important for a community. I am of the opinion that it is precisely an opportunity for you and the head man of the ministry to be able to discuss this very important topic in accordance with these legal provisions. I hope that the report that you have received with complete statistical data but also the text part of the basis for the debate in which I think it is most important that trends are discussed, that we do not come up with a situation to make data, that we come up with a variant that we are not ready to use statistics as necessary, which is to be a guideline for those jobs and actions that we need to make to make the situation different. Police are a public administrative service within the interior ministry that seeks to ensure such conditions in a society where citizens will feel free, secure, protected from any form of violence. The purpose of the police is to protect life, personal integrity and property, and its function is to maintain the state of public security at the highest possible level with the permanent goal of reducing the risk of criminal behaviour. To fulfill this particular mission, reducing the risk of criminal behaviour, the entire activity in 2011 was aimed at 4 specific objectives. Improve prevention and prevention of criminal behaviour, improve crime prevention, increase road safety and strengthen safety at the state border, air traffic and navigation. In the area of police, all violations of the Law on Public Order and Peace, but also a large number of violations under other laws are a total of 65 other laws to which the police have been assigned jurisdiction to determine them. The largest number of violations by police determines through police and police activities, and in emergency interventions when notified of public order and peace violations. During 2011, a total of 9217 violations of all police department laws were recorded, which is 4.3% higher than the previous year. In this group of offenses, the most significant offenses against public order and peace are 27.7%, which is the most common fight, shouting, fighting, impudence, demeaning or insulting of police officers, and make up 80.7% of the stakes in this group of violations. 74.8% of them happened on the streets, squares and catering facilities. A total of 15015 or 16.3% of the share in the total number of violations followed by violations of the Law on Protection against Family Violence. I will, of course, pay attention to only part of the report in this introductory section because it would be very difficult for everything that is written inside, but I believe that in the debate we will safely and in the answers that I will give you, we will have a quality assessment of the situation. As regards the right to a public gathering of citizens who are a constitutional category and way of applying that right, it is governed by the Law on Public Meetings. We consider this important because peaceful gatherings, public protests, public events and other forms of gathering and can only be restricted by law. In 2011, 18519 of them were held at 118 public gatherings of which there were violations of public order and peace. Among all the public gatherings is the highest number of sports competitions, 9045 of which were cheerleading incidents at 52. I would point out that 765 persons have been filed precisely for the purpose of illegal behaviour in sport competitions and 91 effective safeguards have been banned from the presence of certain sports competitions. In countering crime, which is the most dangerous form of punitive conduct and permanently arouses the public's interest, the vast majority of crime occurs, of course, outside the observation of police officers so that they cannot directly contain it. The knowledge of crime is obtained by the police through reports of citizens or legal persons, and one part reveals its own operational activity. A significant part of crime in every society is not revealed for many reasons, and society suffers adverse consequences. And that undiscovered crime is hidden in a dark number, in a dark zone it's just a valid practice, which is that we're always satisfied with the drop in the number of crimes we have to change. A variant in which a 20% drop in the area of the dark zone, which is crime, drugs, economic crime, corruption, domestic violence, can best measure how effective police are and worrying about trends if you have a decline in the number of crimes in that area, a decline in the number of reported. On the contrary, effective police are if it grows, if we've done better and more perpetrators discover it. It has been noted that only one-fifth of the population is enlightened in total crime. About 120,000 crimes are recorded annually in the Republic of Croatia. I must point out that out of these 120,000 crimes for 75 thousand 620, proceedings are being initiated under official duty, and for 12 thousand 513 crimes, the proceedings have not been initiated because of the absence of the proposal, and for 25 thousand 247 crimes, the case has been initiated or initiated by a private suit. In 2011, police paid great attention to the most serious crimes. Only about 1% of all crimes arouses the public's interest. Police are now expected to act decisively and successfully by revealing and resolving this very type of crime because it increases the sense of security in society and strengthens citizens' confidence in the security system. The crime rate of all recorded crimes per 100,000 inhabitants in Croatia is 2 thousand 642 crimes, and the crime crime rate for which police have initiated a criminal offence under official duty is 1,762 crimes. Of the 75,000 620 crimes, as stated by the police on official duty, the procedure was resolved 61.2%. In 2011, the perpetrators of 1,616 crimes reported earlier years were found and the resolution coefficient was increased to 63.3%. Compared to 2010 all reported crimes are higher by 5%, and the crimes for which the procedure was initiated under official duty are more than 3.1%. In the criminality structure, the highest percentage with 76.7%, drug crime with 10.3%, an economy with 9.7%, an organised 0.9% and 1.1% refers to criminality of special security importance, terrorism 0.1%, 0.03% of war crimes and crime in traffic 1 061 crime or 1.3%. In the criminal justice system of the Republic of Croatia, there are over 300 normised types of criminal offences, of which only 18 account for 87% of the total crime recorded in 2011. The general review that we provided during 2011 continued with the trend of reducing the number of accidents with the most severe injuries occurring over the past two years, and I can say that the same trend in even better results continued in 2012. For the last time at this level, the trend was recorded in 1964 when 433 were killed on Croatian roads. Security at the state border in air traffic for each sovereign and independent state is a matter of security, protection and control of the state border is a first-class issue. And this has its own set of special features, especially Croatia, which has a 1003km state border with BiH alone. Preventing illegal crossings as well as all forms of cross-border crime across the state border is a very demanding task. I must point out that this is a first-rate issue both for Croatia and for its position in the EU when very nearly these borders become the borders of a much larger community and with criteria that are necessarily different than we had so far. This will require a series of complex adjustments relating to compliance with European standards in the field of governance of state borders. In this connection, in 2011, the Croatian Parliament adopted a basis, a new Law on Foreigners and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border, which created a legislative framework to fully comply with the EU acquis in this area. In the 2011 fires, there were more than 98.6%, burned area 6 times higher, material damage 2.5 times higher. In the fires 49 people were killed, which is one more time than in 2010 when they were 24. The injured are more than 7.6% in the fires. The number of explosions is lower by 9.1% and the material damage is lower by 31.8%. In accidents and suicides followed by police as a consequence of unfortunate circumstances, and not criminal acts of such behaviour are more by 4.7% - 213 people were killed as little as 5.8% compared to 2010. Suicides are lower by 0.3% compared to 2010. What is important for the Croatian Parliament and what I believe is that we especially need to look back, and this is also about today's topic, and you have received it long ago on the table as parliamentary representatives and this is the application of police powers and the use of coercion funds. In order to successfully carry out their duties, police officers have the right and the duty to take special measures and actions for which they are authorised. These are police powers and that is when the legal conditions for their application are met. By applying police powers, fundamental human rights, freedoms of the citizens, and because of the danger of abuse, police have been subjected to triple surveillance. The work of the police is supervised by administrative supervision within the Ministry, parliamentary supervision of the Croatian Parliament and its Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the civil oversight that exists in the relevant civil surveillance bodies. In 2011, the interior control of the ministry processed 1,862 representations of citizens referring to the dubious actions of police officers. That's 19.2% less than 2010. Of the total number of performances solved, 3.6% were found to be founded, 6.7% partly founded, and 89.7% unconfirmed or unfounded. The use of coercion funds by the police is the most intense breach of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and this authority is under the special supervision of the public authorities. In 2011, police used the means of coercion 4 251 times, which is 13.4% more than the previous year. Body strength was administered in 53% of cases, commitment funds in 46% of cases, and all other assets in 1% of cases. By using firearms 13 times in 2010. When using the funds, 588 citizens are injured, 15 citizens are more likely to get hurt. Out of the total number of cases of use of coercion funds, only in 6 cases, it was found that this use was unwarranted. The attacks on police officers during 2011 were 214, 12% more than a year earlier. In 169 cases, it was a physical attack, in 24 cases with cold weapons, 21 cases of other means of attack were used, and in these attacks 180 police officers were injured more easily while one police officer was seriously injured. And when we talk about police success in 2011, of course it has to be measured and can be measured in several ways. This is the first time in a report delivered to the Croatian Parliament to measure the success of police done in two ways. This is the coefficient of resolution on the detection activity and also the coefficient of inefficiency. The 2011 crime resolution coefficient represents a drop of 5.2% at the same time the efficiency coefficient represents a 65-year increase. This is the result of a stronger police involvement in the detection and resolution of crimes from the USKOK area. We have an increase of 103.6% compared to 2010 with a decrease in the labour performance and capacity of the Criminal Police by 4.5%. This result confirms the efficiency coefficient as the most credible measure of police success. In the report itself, I will ask you in view of all these situations to pay particular attention to what is very important to the Master. This is page 10 in the statistical section that means in this second part you will see that in Croatia we have 48 murders in 2011. In 2010, there were 56. I have to say this time that the looking period behind the '99 war of 118 murders, in 2000 101, falls towards 81, 73, 67 the same 67, 63 so that the figure of 48 in 2011 and the trend we keep in this year is very significant and one good indicator that we do not have such the most severe forms of punitive behavior. I also ask you to take a good look at this part of the police's success for 2011 on page 68 of the text section, and I think that there is a very correct indication that there is no laxative data, that it wants to be pointed out what we have so far and that this way of determining the police's success must become a criterion and what I believe will all be interested in the gross amount of one place in the police is 187 thousand kuna. That's what it costs for a gross amount when you get paid, when you take all the maintenance costs, the building. That's what we also listed in here. Of course, all the biggest criminal trials that were carried out during 2011 were written and, of course, believing that this could be very useful to you Assembly representatives, you also received comparative data for 10 years back in a way that you can concentrate on seeing what trends in the Croatian police are, or specifically, according to the number of crimes. Here I would, Mr. Vice President, believe I could add a lot more information, but I think that's enough for an introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7429	Thank you very much, Minister. And the report and the presentation was extensive, encouraging. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. First for the word on behalf of the IDS Club, respected representative Giovanni Sponza. Just one notice. 3rd session of the Defence Committee will be held tomorrow on Friday 4 May 2012 at 9 pm in the Chamber Ivan Kukuljevic Club of Representatives. I ask the board members to consider that. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7430	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The IDS MPs' club wants to accept the Home Secretary's report for last year 2011. The intention of this address is to point to the problem and to try to contribute to the overall understanding of the problem that is present in the Istrian County area and this is already a longer period of time. The first page of the report after paragraph 3 reads "Keeping public security at the highest possible level has special value for citizens and is assumed to be a successful development of society in all areas". Namely, in police stations and in Istrian County for many years, which according to systematisation and standards requires a number of police officers, and I do not put the accent on the administration but on police officers on the ground. Croatia is a very attractive tourist destination, state and country. Croatia today depends heavily on the success of the tourist season and the success of the tourist season depends on the country's financial stability. Istria contributes with about 30% of the total tourism traffic achieved during the nights and more than a third of the total financial traffic achieved in Croatian tourism. It is certain that natural beauty, clean sea, urban planning and cleanliness of the place, cultural and fun inventory are some of the reasons why tourists come to Croatia and thus also to Istria. But for the sake of their choice, if it may not be the most important then, one of the most important is the element of security. But the element of security is primarily important for all of us living in Croatia. During the tourist season, when in Istria with locals and tourists arriving, the number triples the existing number of police employees is certainly not objectively able to implement all necessary measures in all areas that are expected of them. The problem, as I said earlier, was not since yesterday, but what was defeated he was noticeable and expressed not only in the local population but also in the guests themselves. On this point, and on this issue, what is at least known to me will be two initiatives. One that's taken from the local level, and one that's being taken from the state level. As far as the local example of solving this problem is concerned, I will mention the example that is best known to me, which is the town of Rovinj, and we have tried to compensate for the insufficient number of police officers during several tourist seasons, of course with the necessary agreement of the ministry, because that is the procedure and regulation, and in a way that the Rovinj Police Station received a number of reinforcements from police stations from the interior of Croatia and that local self-government, with great help and support from the tourist economy, covered the total cost of staying, accommodation and food for police employees. In addition to the numerical impression, the physical presence of police officers who came to help did not really have any effective effect, nor did it benefit them. I believe that the reason and answer is very simple, and for me it is acceptable and understandable, which is that the police station chiefs who sent reinforcements from their police stations sent those certainly not the best and not the best police officers. What the ministry has been constantly trying to do for a few years back, and it is indeed an active role to contribute to reducing the problem is that police officers are being moved from other parts of Croatia to Istria. On the same day, however, when these officers arrive in Istria, they immediately write a request, with a high percentage of 90% that they want to be transferred from Istria. Indeed, both as a man and as a mayor and as a parliamentary representative, I have absolute understanding of their attitude and their desire to move and for several reasons. Because they are separated from their family members, because no one in society provides them with conditions for accommodation and because what is bad, the cost of life is much higher in Istria than in the interior of Croatia, and thus their cost of life becomes more expensive. Accordingly, with this debate today, I do not only want to point out the problem but I also want to make a contribution to its potential solution. That is why I want to be free to propose to you, Mr. Minister, because I personally hold and believe that it is necessary to find a solution for all police stations and all places and not only in Istria, but in all places in Croatia, and where police stations are located, which do not have sufficient numbers of police officers with a proposal of two models. One is the decentralisation of power. What is a good example and which has obtained results is the establishment of a traffic order, effects and effects are seen on the ground, and a concrete proposal in decentralisation of powers which absolutely would not violate the Ministry of the Interior system from examples of good practice for us neighbouring European countries is the introduction of municipal police in the authority of local self-government units. Another proposal, which concerns one of the basic life issues of each of us, and so are the police, is to resolve the housing issue, but I will not propose a model of the famous POS construction not because cities should give their land, but because in the areas of the municipalities and cities of the state they own, there is untapped potential, whether in the building land that is unused, whether in buildings, whether in buildings, which are back two decades and failing. I am sure that if there was any good will that the competent state authorities would certainly not only be in charge, but the initiative could come from a resolute minister, that state institutions, state bodies would find a legally sustainable model of housing for police employees who would of course not be free but with much more favourable and sustainable conditions that would allow them to resolve for themselves and their family one of the fundamental issues of life, because I want to believe that this would make a police officer more effective because it would be a place and a city in which he lives and his family lives, and not just a city, which practice officially determines and serves only one narrow period of time. I am deeply convinced that the problem of insufficient police officers at police stations in Istrian cities, but in other places throughout Croatia should also be seriously and timelyly considered because I am convinced that it will be even more expressed by Croatia's entry into the EU. Croatia's entry into the EU will certainly open up a lot of opportunities. All of us will face numerous challenges with a possible positive outcome, but also with negative consequences, and the outcome depends on all of us. It is necessary and it is enough just to look at all the negative experiences of our neighbouring countries, and it is about the rate of increase in crime at the moment of opening the labour market. I believe that we should not close our eyes before this, but in time we must start preparing and implementing measures. Security and stability are important in all areas of life for the people of Istria, and therefore here I will be free to repeat again. Decentralisation of powers through example of the introduction of municipal police and the placing of land and state-owned buildings into operation in order to resolve the housing issue for all those who already work at police stations or who will work at police stations tomorrow and not only in the area of Istria but throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7431	Thank you, counsel. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the vice-president of the parliament, the respected representative Nenad Stazic, will speak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7432	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honored ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, let me say that the SDP club will accept this report. Secondly, I would like to thank the minister for his report on police behaviour today at Brač. That's what we started working today. We understand from this report this afternoon that the police acted this morning at the request of the court and others, that they acted in accordance with the law. That's unusually important to us. HDZ lawmakers whose law was passed mostly today ask whose order the police acted on. It's obvious by theirs. The SDP club, however, will not be satisfied with the fact that the rule of law only comes true when it treats workers who have been cheated, robbed and disproved. The SDP is demanding that the rule of law prove powerful even when it treats robbers, according to those who have robbed them for years, according to Bruno Oresar, to be very specific. According to those who allowed Bruno Oresar to be an entrepreneur like the entrepreneur, because he played tennis and lost tennis matches. For eight years, it kept quiet and let Bruno Oresar do whatever he wanted. Eight years of the state hasn't done anything, but that's why those who haven't done anything this morning are calling over the fate of the workers, the same ones that allowed these workers to be robbed. They don't just have political responsibility, so to speak as they said in the afternoon, we've lost the election and we've been punished, and now we can talk again and do what we want. At least there's moral responsibility. For eight years, there was silence over Oresar’s robbery, and today it is called the fate of the workers. So much for this report of events today in the Pugs. Let's move on to this Home Office report. Here, the little situation is strange, in fact, that a new minister is reporting on the work of the Ministry of the Interior for the period of the previous minister. But we appreciate that this report is well drawn up, good quality, that it's content, that it's methodologically well done and that's why we're going to vote for its adoption. It is interesting that this information is presented on page 19, we do not arrive here on behalf of the club to go through the entire report as the minister did by introducing us into the topic but we will only mention the most important points. In the criminal justice system of the Republic of Croatia, there are over 300 nominal types of criminal offences, and 87% of the total criminality accounts for only 18 crimes. So 18 crimes are dominant in our society. Obviously, we need to concentrate on those 18 crimes in particular. When it comes to crime and corruption, let's look at what it says about the most significant criminal research. It's not all research. They're just the most important. First in March 2011 a criminal investigation of responsible persons was completed at CROSCO d.o.o. and the manager of the remont project of all platforms for receiving bribes from the owner and responsible person in TD Metal color and TD... who were interested in business cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Criminal research has resulted in criminal charges for criminal acts of counterfeiting, bribery, bribery in economic business, and material damage amounts to 3 million and 700,000 kuna. Second most significant or significant criminal research. In March 2011, a criminal investigation of responsible persons in Croatian highways d.o.o. was completed. due to the convenience of the TD Building Fund in the conclusion of the contract on the construction of the building on the Ploca – Karamatici. Criminal research has resulted in criminal charges for crimes of abuse of position and authority, and material damage amounts to 50 million kuna. Third, in April 2011, a criminal investigation was completed against the responsible persons of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund who joined together with the responsible persons of BBS, Retable d.o.o. and warehouse of raw materials d.o.o. In order to obtain for themselves and others a substantial property benefit in such a way as to abuse their authority and to display false information about the redeemed PET packaging as true. Based on such false data, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has damaged 103 million kunas. Fourth major research. In May 2011, a criminal investigation of the responsible persons of Autocesta Rijeka – Zagreb d.o.o. was completed. and responsible persons The Fund of Construction groups who abused their position and powers in such a way that by signing an annex to the contract on the change in the way of payment of the works carried out, by negotiating payment through a fixed price even though they knew that the amended way the Construction Fund would pay them a financial amount greater than the value of the really executed works damaged the company Autoceste Rijeka – Zagreb for the amount of 12 million 334 thousand kuna. The handwriting is the same. Four public companies in which those who called the Home Secretary this morning set up executives today tell us all day that we're setting up people without a competition to rob these four companies. These aren't all criminal research, as we know from the press these are some, these are the most significant. They all have the same signature, they all wear HDZ signatures. So much for this guy and that handwriting and that we're talking about today, so don't salt our minds, have at least so much decency that you don't teach us or Minister Jovanovic or any of our representatives behavior. Those who have acted like this have no right to call anyone in line. Now let's go to some other areas. Crime, drugs. For the purpose of drug possession, this is Article 173(1). 5269 criminal offences or 67.8% were reported and 8 or 0.1% were reported for association for the purposes of the initiation of the same article. The police therefore dealt with those who owned and did not deal with those who joined criminal organizations to distribute drugs, produce and unload. The use of drugs by a child or a minor has been reported to be 107 crimes or 1.4% of the total number of crimes in the area of drug abuse. That's what we've been honking for years, years, years. For reports like this. Police are dealing with drugs, dealing with drug abuse, but 67.8% of those they own, and 0.1% of those who do evil. And for years, we've been asking who our enemy is. Whether our enemies are drug addicts or our enemies are drug dealers. Because if drug addicts are our enemies, then great, then we're chasing junkies and we're going to be very effective. And if our dealers are a problem, then let's treat the junkies and put these guys in jail. But then the efficiency of the police must not be 0.1% on that, but it must be 70% on the discovery of those who have joined in committing this crime. So, these statistics show that for years we've been right when we're looking for a different position of these crimes both in the Criminal Law and in the Criminal Law, that we're right, that we want to be more efficient in fighting this evil, and that those who actually treat it irresponsiblely and populistly hard drugs are drugs, which I care if they own or organize, all the same, actually encourage drug spread. Because the police are engaged in completely irrelevant tasks. Next, criminal justice for youth and family. He looks forward to 33.8% less than 2010 from the domain of criminal legal protection of children and minors. That's good, that's good trend. That's a good trend, that makes us happy. We're worried about fires, the fires are more like 98.6%. Burned surfaces are 6 times higher. The material damage is 2.5 times larger. Which means we need to concentrate more on fire protection because our entire country is going to burn down so if it's going to be an increase of 6 times the number of burned surfaces every year then we're not going to have a good time. Which means we encourage both ministers and the government to concentrate on fire protection. At the end of this debate, only one look at the last table on the management of the Ministry of Interior from 1998 to 2011. and the coefficient of success of the ministerial mandate. During the Racan government period, this success was 43.4%. That's at a time when the minister was Shime Lucin. The following is Minister Mlinaric 50.6% and Kirin is already down 31.4% and Rončević 22.9% and Karamarko 18.4% coefficient of performance of Minister Karamark, 18.4%. He was even more a failure than Kirin, the famous youbito minister. Even from him, that's what needs to be done. That really takes a talent show. So this table is talking about how it was at the Ministry of the Interior in the country. The way some ministers did. We don't have names here, but we have years, so we know when the minister was. We know when the minister was, so we know how effective he was. So here, with these observations, we accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7433	Thank you, Your Honor. A correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Josip Djakic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it is incorrect that Mr. Vice President Stazic is responsible for the non-processing of these in the Adriatic, former HDZ government. That's absolutely incorrect. The government doesn't pursue persecution, the government doesn't make investigations. There's a state's attorney's office, there's a BOLO, there's a police investigation that's doing, and it's the ones who haven't done their part of the job at the time. The government has created environments and political frameworks through laws so that instruments and levers can be used to combat crime. Just as in Jadrankamen and KIA Keramika Orahovica, where a full police report has arrived at the State's Attorney's Office, nothing has happened, it has been rejected. Where the apparent robbery, thieving, and everything else described on a comprehensive document that arrived at the State's Attorney's Office and no answer, there's no culprit. Is it the former government's fault?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7435	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. For the HNS club, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll start by saying that the HNS Club will accept this report. My presentation on behalf of the CNS on this report will be somewhat shorter because I must note that my colleague, Vice-President of the Assembly, Stazić and I, almost identically, were getting into the eyes of what was written in this report. What do you say? Police work, the success of police work is of paramount importance to every society that wants to be safe, which wants to ensure peace for its citizens, which also wants to provide basic preconditions for achieving prosperity. How important this is for a country that today is not only trying but also today relys most on tourism activity, I guess it is unnecessary to stress it. What is clear to all of us is that public security is one of the fundamental imperatives of every society and for this reason everything I will say in this comment I hope will be properly interpreted and well recorded. As well as colleagues Stazić, i.e. in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, I would like to apostrophe the general results of violations of the law in the Republic of Croatia that show an increase of 4.3% more compared to the previous year and that is what motivates us in any case, and of course the MUP, or police administration, should motivate them to intensify all activities compared to the previous ones. I do not doubt that in the police ranks most professionals do their best in the given circumstances and that people try to draw the maximum in their daily work, but I will be free as a local official who has certain experience and who is responsible and follow certain trends in their midst to notice certain things and also be free as a parliamentary representative to give specific suggestions. Police work is divided into two basic variants, it's an act on the spot and it's an action after committing a crime or police processing as it's being called popularly. What happens and what happens and works after committing a crime in any case has its weight and importance, however, from the experience of my city, which has always been known as a quiet city, Sibenik has been experiencing this for decades, I need to absorb the need to intensify prevention especially when young people are concerned. In Sibenik, we have experienced several cases in which minors have been attacked and brutally beaten in the last few years. One of them young Sibenik student is my colleague with a sea fishing student's game and is now rehabilitating in spas after a serious loss. Believe it or not, he was beaten up at one of the most popular youth gatherings during the evening outing on the obvious hundreds of visitors to the nightclub. No one in today's time, I suppose, has found this state of society fitting to protect this young man from brutal beating. Even late and very reduced were the reactions that were paid and legally mandatory to preserve order and peace in such clubs, that by any chance there was prevention and that the members of the police force were aware that such things had been at such a place at the moment of maximum visitation during the weekend at such a checkpoint, that young man would be at his university today, bringing the studies to an end. His family wouldn't have experienced the tragedy either. There were other similar cases that could also be prevented from being adequate. Therefore, not only on my own behalf and on behalf of the CNS, but on behalf of all parents, all mothers and fathers in the Republic of Croatia, I appeal to Mr. Minister of the Interior that during the weekend of the dates that have become part of the culture of young people to take additional precautions and prevention measures. In this report, reading this chapter on particularly serious criminal acts of economic crime, I noticed the same thing as my colleague Stazic, but there is no need to repeat ourselves or comment on these things, one thing is actually a subtitle to my eyes, which is a new trend in the use of abuse and illegal use of incentives of state incentives. And I think that not only in this assembly, but also in the Croatian public, it is not news and that we all know and that unfortunately those people whose incentives belong to the law and not by God's justice found a lot of bad guys often under political patronage who pulled incentives in millions of kunas, cut out the state budget and thus denied Croatian farmers for what they belong and for what they need. From some personal experience, and what the public knows about, I will ask one question, in 2005, then the Minister of Agriculture, current fellow Parliamentarian Cobanković, representatives of fishermen and farmers, began to address the question of justification of the use of blue diesel, the records that were carried out in green and blue books. During our meeting, the agreement was to withdraw all the blue and green books of Croatian fishermen and farmers and to see and for what reason, and how so much consumption of blue diesel is. It was done, and after about two months we came up with frantic data. The refinery dropped 180 thousand tons of blue diesel on the market, and when everything was controlled and it turned out that Croatian farmers and Croatian fishermen pulled 100,000 tons of blue diesel. 80,000 tonnes or 80 million liters of times some 3,4 kunas then compared to the price of oil contributions, taxes, excise duties, tolls. It is not difficult to calculate the state budget was damaged in that fiscal year for some 300 million kuna. That's a lot of writing, that's what's been talked about in public. However, both these and the following years, we regularly witnessed the disproportionateness between what was dropped from the refineries to the market and what was carried out through the books. I ask an open question, will that secret ever be enlightened? Where have many thousands of tons gone, and who is driving today an expensive convertible at the expense of that work? What is certainly commendable is the detail of this report. It is not only quite good but it is quite precisely worked out both in charts and in tables and text. It would be good if all the reports coming to the Croatian Parliament were at this level, as regards the technique of presentation and details of data processing. So what we expect is that the Croatian police forces are on the road and on the street more intensely but especially to be present among young people, to protect their safety and especially try to suppress the distribution of alcohol among young people because we also witness this monster among young people today. I think it's clear to all of us that protecting that category is the youngest priority of any society and that it must be above all. What I will finally also thank Mr. Minister for giving us an explanation and a report of an event that is not dear to anyone, which no one has looked forward to in any case, we all had a dumpling in our throat today because of the fact that the police were forced to intervene in order to implement the decision of the Croatian court and to ensure the respect of Croatian laws. But in every country that wants order and prosperity to govern it and to protect the rights of all citizens and these Adriatic workers, ladies and gentlemen must rule the law. And as difficult as it was for us today, we must be aware that the forces of the Croatian police had no choice today. What as a man and a parliamentary representative, I will take advantage of here are the last moments of this exhibition, but as a man who once represented a particular interest group and a certain group in Croatian society I appeal to all workers who suffer injustice, however difficult it is for them, as much as they are deceived, disappointed, suspended, robbed, they must trust legal institutions and rely on their rights to fight against the rule of law and the institutions of the rule of law. There's no other way or way. The protest is yes, but a protest that is in line with the law, which is rational and which will then allow all institutions in Croatian society to do their job properly, protect their interests and state property. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7437	Thank you. The esteemed Boro Grubisic has applied to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Correction refers to two things. Namely, at the end of what Mr. Columbo was saying, so trust in the legal institutions so in our police department at the time and intervention of our Intervention or Special Police, whatever you want. It used to be called the Special Police Unit. I believe that a speaker, like the minister today, will not say that he does not believe but when he says so, the minister said, I read in the press or in the media by electronic means, that he did so by order, by order of the judiciary or by someone. So in some ways, I'm not going to say goodbye to one, but something like that. That's one thing. But the second refers to a clean name, the official name of the Ministry of the Interior...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7439	Please, which is incorrect in the presentation of colleagues of Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7440	It's incorrect, the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7441	Is that incorrect in exposing my colleague Baranovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7442	That's right. It's the Home Office as well as the Department of Internal Diseases in all hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7443	Okay, thank you. You're right. The Croatian Labourists' attitudes will bring us closer to our esteemed colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for coming to the Parliament this afternoon and answering some of the questions raised this morning about the police's actions in Brač. It's the only thing that's useful, which I've heard from you that you've explained that you've arranged, assisted at the court's request. Of course, that legal authority and even the obligations of the police exist, that by order of the court such or similar interventions and assists in... I said this morning, training strictness and proving compliance with the law, but you and I also know that in such interventions the police are also doing evaluations before they act, and I'm sure you've had good judgments about the possible reaction of both the population and the workers. That's why so many cops were hired. I didn't accuse you of acting against the law, but I asked why the police intervened only when the resistance of the workers was to be broken, and it didn't respond when the applications were to be read. And secondly, I don't understand whether the task, the goal of today's intervention, or whether you've returned from Brač is fulfilled. So is the task of intervention fulfilled, if the court asked for something to do if it was carried out. If it isn't, then the question is, why did all of this have to happen today? If the bankruptcy is not installed in the factory then the task is not completed. Since he's been discussing a report that isn't yours, but your predecessor's report to comment, criticise or dispute or be angry with something in this report, it wouldn't be correct for you. However, what I will certainly do, which is to refer to you an appeal, a request, a suggestion or a request. From the police work report, I took only that part of the report on economic crime. This is page 27 of the report where one display of the number of applications in 2010, 2011 and solved cases. You could discuss street violence, domestic violence, drugs, and I'd only stay on economic crime. On page 27, the table shows that police had 6 cases in 2011 because of the abuse of bankruptcy. In the past calendar year, Mr. Minister, 758 bankruptcy procedures have been opened. Each procedure only from newspapers when we read and follow after opening a bankruptcy procedure is opened by Pandora's boxes and the media is a series of facts, events in these companies where the bankruptcy process was opened a year, two or three earlier. So if 700, 800 bankruptcy proceedings were opened in one year in the country, and only 6 cases were handled by the police, and later a series of these proceedings became major affairs, and the President of the Parliament said a few days ago about Kamenski that there was everything and everything, then I would ask that the future of this area of bankruptcy abuse in reporting was given in more detail than your predecessor in the text section that the most significant criminal research managed to come to a single page and 4 examples. CROSCO, Fund of Construction, BBC and Highway Rijeka-Zagreb. These are the four largest cases in the 2011 economic crime area handled by police. What are the crimes of doubt and the investigations that seem to be committed in the abuse of bankruptcy proceedings? In addition to the figures for us MPs, it is also very important to see which part of the legislation should be amended, facilitate work for you, as well as the State's Attorney's Office in the faster detection and sanctioning of the perpetrators. Next thing I know, it's tax evasion and other donations. There were 63 cases like that. According to data made by Minister Linic about 2 months ago in the Parliament last year, tax and contribution payments worth 5 billion kuna were recorded. I repeat five billion kunas. The structure of these evasions at altitudes, the size of companies and the manner of evasion is useful to us not because of politicisation, not because of competition, but because of the adoption of legislation. And I remind you that this Parliament also has an anti-corruption national council and that it can be useful in that part. So, if you don't give us such facts then besides statistics, figures and these four items that are listed as quotes of the most significant criminal research, we won't know anything because it turns out that in the abuse of bankruptcy there was nothing significant, that there was nothing more significant about tax evasion than unconscious economic business. There were 36 objects here. Structure. What, how, where? And the last item that got my attention was the last one. According to the Company Act, Articles 624 to 629. I took that law, too, and I looked at those provisions to see what they were, the crimes that fall within this domain, and they were 52. I'll just say 52. Because in a country where the tax debt of contributions and concessions is exactly 50% of the budget, so over 50 billion, where at the moment 1393 bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted in companies where 20,000 workers were fired, in companies where, as dead capital with suspicious business, there is about 10 and a half billion value of assets. I'm afraid these articles are 624 to 629 with only 52 items and I haven't found any information as to whether these are items that the police themselves have initiated or acted upon at the request of the State's Attorney's Office. There's probably one and the other, but the distinction and giving of that information is extremely important that the police found out about it and handed it over to the State's Attorney's office, and the principle of the State's Attorney's Office and gave it to the police for criminal processing. But since the report already quotes articles 624 to 629. I would then ask that you, in future, process the offences referred to in Articles 282 and 283 in particular. Penalty law, 626. The Act on Commercial Companies and Articles 4 and 39. It's a bankruptcy code. I want to believe that you will accept these suggestions and that your report, your first report, will contain these data, and that in the most significant criminal research there will be no 4-year-old affair. And I'll finish the next one. It's not your fault that the bankruptcy judge who was due to be installed today in Jadrankamen is conducting 5 bankruptcy proceedings at the same time, only 5. There are those who are far more capable than he is, so they're being led by 17 at the same time. It would be interesting, and it's not your fault that the public can't see and know the property cards of bankruptcy judges because it's classified information, and bankruptcy managers don't have to give away property cards. They're not required by law to account for their property, perhaps only you. And I end up with the question of whether the police should today edit that, in the building of Planinska in Zagreb, by which case it was not empty, but the workers are working there, it is the latest affair, whether the police would then, following a court request by law, go to install a bankruptcy manager without answering a fundamental question. In the process, one suspect was that he sold the building to the government for 30 million dollars. But between him and the government there was a middleman. He happens to be called Hypo Leasing, Hypo Bank. And the one who sold it is under investigation, the one who negotiated and bought suspiciously on behalf of the government. But I didn't hear that this middleman who's paid 30 million more for the building, knowing in advance who's going to be the buyer, and at what cost that buyer is going to buy it that he's committed any crime or at least a misdemeanour. Somehow, the middle of the middle of the middle of the brokerage when the banks are on the run, they're disappearing from the investigation, and that's what I used as an example for Mr. Minister's request in economic crime indicators. Not financial, economic. I'd like special information on banks in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7445	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, his associate. Indeed, from this Internal Affairs Minister's report in 2011 to read a lot and draw a lot of conclusions. But before I go into the analysis in particular, in terms of these numerous and very clear tables that are written here, I would like to talk about what we did this morning when you were not completely clear about the reason we spoke about today's Adriaticmen and ask for an end to the session of the Croatian Labour Club, and then, afterwards, the HDSSB club. We later read your statement where, somehow, as I have already said, it turns out that you're kind of reluctant in fact, and by order we've applied our intervention police, so it kind of looks like the introduction of a bankruptcy manager like I'd say no one gets angry without any ugly thought of introducing a priest and priest of Peter's Order to the Franciscan province of Hercegovina into some Franciscan parish in our country. So when citizens like here and workers just wanted something else. But about that after. I hope that regardless of what the police have intervened, which can forcely execute the order to introduce a bankruptcy manager because the force is a force, the force of God does not beg, that this event will leave a mark on both those who issue a warrant to the police and those who should think a little deeper about what brings the use of force in such cases. Well, no matter what the law says or what the law says. We don't often follow very strict laws or even the Ministry of the Interior, sometimes for the greater good. I'm not saying that in a negative sense, in a negative connotation, but sometimes for the greater good. Sometimes it's a good warning without punishment, so it has its own effect. Now, about these tables that are really showing the state in the police, but also in what the police, the MUP, were doing and doing last year. So is a good comparison with done in 2010, and then a comparison by individual counties, which is also important. Here I will start from the end of this report on, there are no marked tables, but it says above – Police officers on 100,000 inhabitants. Maybe it's interesting information to see that the number of police officers is on average in the Republic of Croatia at 100,000 inhabitants of 619 let's round up, not 18.8 because you can't divide into tenths. But when we look at the number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants, but by county, we see some disproportionateness. So, bounce from this Croatian average of 619 police officers. Well, here, for example. It is interesting that the Brod-Posavia County should say there are 618 police officers on the 100 thousand inhabitants just as much as the Croatian average. Our Vukovar-Srijem or Slavonian County has 1036 police officers. But that's understandable because we have a border police force that, given the border and the so-called border. Republika Srpska, or BiH, then with Vojvodina or today, Serbia has a long border between Sava and Danube, and then the number of border police officers is 460 which is clearly signifying and therefore brings a total number of 1036 police officers to 100,000 residents. But here's another example where Lika-Senj County has 1070 police officers on 100,000 inhabitants. But only 200 were employed in border police compared to Vukovar-Srijemska, which has 460 employees. What does that mean? If we see that, for example. In the basic police of Lika-Senj County, 400 police officers were hired to say, and in Brod-Posavia, which by the number of inhabitants was significantly employed by 118 police officers in the basic police force. From reading something else, there was also a certain employment disorder in the last year. So it's not the year of your ministry, but there was a certain order to say mess or if he was bringing it up then it brings this discrepancy to the number of county employees. That's one plate. Especially me on the page. 63. intrigued the table down at the bottom that speaks of the number of suicides and attempted suicides in the Republic of Croatia and the comparison between 2010 and 2011, and then the age of the perpetrator where we see that up to 14 years of life the number of those who tried to commit suicide has risen from 9 to 22. The worse it is between 26 and 35 years of age, so at the beginning of the life of a man formed, the number of suicides, or attempted suicides, increased from 2010 from 126 to 183. What's he saying? So from these tables, which the Ministry of the Interior has written very neatly, others are being read, so other things from the lives of our citizens and our countries. We talked today about a large number of unemployed. A lot of college graduates are out of work. It's this generation of 25 and beyond. The number of suicides increased by 45% and attempted suicide. I can't argue because I haven't explored or here there is therefore it's not even possible to analyze or write it individually for every reason, but let's think about it ourselves, we're smart enough to figure out some things ourselves. The crime against dominant groups compared to 2010, which is why in 2011, we see an increase in that crime from 73 thousand 328 2010 to 5 thousand 620 2011 in all segments of burglary in heavy thefts and property crime, also with a maximum of 39,40 thousand to 43,000. When we look also at the table on war crimes, then I have to be here as Minister of Public Affairs because in Djakov at a charity meeting, I was asked here to ask from the Parliament's pay phone what it was with criminal charges and to have any investigations into the women of Vukovar who now have their own association, and sued a known and unknown perpetrator for rape in the time of the Homeland War. They do not have any information about whether the actions they would expose and which would lead to the processing of those who did so, and those who despite everything they were going through and what they were going through had the courage to report it. I think that's part of war crimes, too, and it's a serious war crime. As far as I can tell here, it says for 2011, zero, so it's an empty section of war crimes. So the minister will have the opportunity to tell me whether an investigation has been done on this matter and some kind of action taken in order to be signed by Mr Djakic, based on the testimony of those women who courageously stepped up and founded their association and gave their statements, signed by their name and last name, so here is Mr Djakic, also has a book. Thank you very much. What do the facts say about the increase in crime in the number of thefts mainly in some segments? What about bicycles is already an old story, we saw it through our electronic media and television, etc. whether the situation of the material, economic situation, as our family's fiscal or financial situation is said, leads our citizens to a rise in this crime from year to year. More 2011 than 2010. Do some people no matter what I believe in the honesty of many to yet do some kind of crime like she did in Slavonski Brod broke into the kiosk to secure milk for her children, because she had no money to buy milk to feed her children. Well, there's one crime. So along with these numerous tables here I have watched the number of crimes of the number of murders by police administrations in 2011 and I am happy and pleased to see that in the Brod-Posavina County which was in 2010 not to say county or city case with 6 murders, here 2011 ended without killings, and 2010. Zagreb had 12 and Brod-Posavia County 6 although it was 6 times smaller than the population. So here's one of my most dear facts. So the total murder in the Republic of Croatia for last year is 48. And not to bother a few colleagues, I'm going to have a few more tables to comment on. It's hard to comment on them all because they really had something to read one day and night and then draw even more detailed conclusions from it, but here's a drive under the influence of alcohol. An interesting table that handles this matter under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating drugs where 38 thousand 248 cases were recorded in 2010 and 2011. 41 thousand 750. So either an increase of more than three thousand or almost 10%. It is difficult to say whether control measures were more stringent or monitoring and the frequency of blood alcohol and drug control was more frequent and precise, resulting from an increased incidence You got it. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] Or it's really about increasing the number of people who consume alcohol and drugs. And that would be one possibility that would require a more detailed analysis. All in all, the club's report will accept HDSSB because it's really written professionally and taught, I could even say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7447	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a distinguished colleague, Gordana Sobol, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Well, I'm actually going to start my debate, I didn't think about it, but my colleague Grubisic encouraged me about the issues of raped women during the wartime, or destruction. I think this is how we should actually ask a question and ask for information. Namely, all those women over whom war crimes were committed on their deaths gave statements long before 2011 or 2012, so they gave statements in various police stations and in front of various state lawyers during their deployments throughout Croatia. What I'm interested in is maybe in that direction, not maybe, but definitely something to do, where those statements ended. We are witnessing the names and last names of people who have been interrogating and taking statements from these women. In whose drawers these statements ended, whether or not they were destroyed and why it was done. So that's the question. Today, these women, after all these years, are giving their testimony again, and as far as I know, it seems to me that the state's attorney's office has initiated certain procedures, but I think it's too scary for the Croatian state to now, some and a half times, have to give a fourth statement about what they were going through during that period. That is, I would say, to the shame of both the Croatian state and the then, those competent institutions that were in charge of collecting this documentation and doing something about it. But I would ask Mr. Minister, this is the 2011 report, the report shows the work of the former government or the former minister, but my debate will go in the direction of what I said and on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and I would ask that all the remarks I will make be respected and that in the future when new reports are being made that they are without the disadvantages that we now have in this report. First and basic, general remarks, in Croatia, all state institutions and ministries must conduct gender statistics. We don't even know from this report how many police officers we have, officers, how many deputies we have, so how many women we have in total in the interior ministry structure. So that's one general. Secondly, the only birth data you have in this report for the past year, but that was actually all the reports you've reported so far, is that you have the only data on how many women and how many men have tried or committed suicide. Of course, the question is, why do we have no record of how many women have caused an alcohol accident or how many women have committed the robbery of some mail, exchanges, bookshops, etc. How many women committed serious crimes of some other kind or murder or something. So that data in this report is gone and I would really pray as we have succeeded after many years to achieve that from the Ministry of Defense we get exactly that sort of classified data. I know you said that such information exists in the ministry. No matter what this report is going to be, something a little bit more specific, but in the end, there can be a summary of the report as many other institutions do, but I think this way we're going to fix something. At the end of the line, the ministry will also act according to the law as is required, even under the Law on Gender Equality. What I would also like to emphasise and ask Mr. Minister, to try to do something that I think you've already said yourself at the board's session, does not require any legislative changes, but it is necessary to make a certain intervention, I don't know if it's called the Internal Affairs Regulation, so that finally after all these years of underage delinquency, we can single out a department that deals with violence against women, or domestic violence. Why am I talking or something? Because of the data, I took the prosecutor's data on gender equality for the past year, out of the total number of murders that occurred in Croatia last year 40% of all murders were among family members, and out of those 19, respectively, 11 were women or 23% of the victims of all killings in Croatia were women. And when we take only domestic violence, then almost 58% of the victims of the murder within the family are women. When looking at the number of crimes committed in the family during the last year, 910 people were damaged, of which 747 are female subjects, which means that they account for 82% in the total number of damaged persons. So I think that we have inside that department and now already experts and experts dealing in particular with the problem of domestic violence and if it does not, and it seems to me that there should be no excessive effort or financial means to finally receive reports that will not be part of the report of criminal child and minors. The more it is when it comes to this type of crime, then domestic bullying when it comes to adults makes almost 20% of the total. And what I would especially like to point out, the lawyer's report is talking about something else, and I think we need to be so honest about it and say to the Ministry of the Interior or police officers and public perception officers, is that somehow when it comes to curbing domestic violence, then we first think about the police. They go out on the ground, so they move on with actions, with the determination of proposals towards misdemeanor courts, etc., etc. There is a protocol on the handling of cases of domestic violence and there are, whether I want to admit it or not, differences in behaviour or in the application of the protocol by police officers when it comes to different parts of Croatia. We can say that perhaps in the city of Zagreb we are satisfied with the way the protocol is implemented, but in some other parts of Croatia, believe in the data obtained, there are difficulties in implementing and acting under this protocol. So I would like to ask that here, and as a ministry, I believe that you will also respect the counsel's recommendations to continue to educate police officers and professionals on domestic violence, and on the implementation of the principle of gender equality, and all in order to say is to remove the lack of treatment when it comes to domestic violence. And there's another initiative. I hope that if, therefore, they open up and form your departments, and I believe that there should be no greater difficulty in the proposal after all these years, that a new job of officials or officials should be introduced into police administrations and police stations to combat domestic violence and against women. I would say, unfortunately, the figures that talk about domestic bullying show that we need this very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7449	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, as the most important police task, the citizens must consider the discovery and resolution of crime. When you look at the report that was the objectives of the activity in 2011 it is seen that these are improvements, strengthening any segments that are listed, which means that it is seeking improvement. So, of course, I accept this report. I hope that the next one will be even better than this, that it will go towards its main role, which is towards the safety of our citizens. In the discussion, I will look only at two areas of the report, which is the crime, drugs and crime of minor children, i.e. violence and the role of police in these two segments. According to those data we've already heard from the vice presidents from the fact that 67.8% of crimes are related to possession, and only 0.1% to organised groups or dispersion would actually be said to be ineffective in the fight against drugs, i.e. that it's misdirected. Namely, Croatia can be characterised by its geological position as one transit area, an area between manufacturers and consumer countries. That is why it is also expected that the increased supply of drugs, that drugs are more diverse, is that it is located on the border that the availability of drugs is increased. However, I must emphasise something that is positive from the report, which is given data on drug crime prevention, the trend of successful international co-operation is visible, and a number of commendable actions, seized by international character. Further statistics show that the trend in the representation of club drugs, or psycho-stimulating drugs such as cocaine, anaphethamines, is relative to heroin. But, of course, these drugs are very destructive to the brain and the organism and are difficult to detect during testing, but they are according to the most popular data. I must stress here the Dubrovnik-Neretva County Police Administration, which has achieved significant results in the prevention of drug abuse since 2009 and this is particularly difficult forms of purchasing abuse in order to resell. Therefore, during this period in the city of Dubrovnik, significant drug traffickers were hit, and this trend continued as seen in the 2011 report when a number of significant groups dealing with the supply of large quantities of intoxicated drugs were actually broken. I am issuing an operational action "Suton" that has entered the five most significant treatments on drug abuse in the Internal Affairs Minister's report on police work we have in this report as well. In addition to these very significant repressive measures, employees of our police administration are also implementing continuous preventive measures in which students of eight primary schools and first grade secondary schools give education on the consequences of not only drug consumption but also alcohol and tobacco. I must point out that there's an employee in the police department who's just dealing with prevention at the police department. Another area I'd like to talk about right now is the criminality of minors and children. According to the report, children who are not responsible for criminal offences have committed 745 crimes, of which 20.7% are violent crimes. The total number of crimes is the same as in previous years, but the number of violent crimes is up by 2.7%. Similarly, among the criminal acts of minors, 14.7% are crimes of violence, and also from the Family Protection Act, violence has been reported as being increased by 6% or 2%. I wonder if these data are accurate, but it's often seen from practice that it's a worse number than it is visible here. In fact, violence often does not appear if it occurs in a school or in a public place and it is difficult to get into the neighborhood and organized fights that are arranged very often through a facebook, etc. However, what encourages me is that the police have begun to catch minors who are out of 23 hours even though this figure that's about 2,000 per cent of me is still a small figure in terms of the experiences that police officers have and it's basically enough to go out on weekends outside, so let's see what's going on in cities, parks, various benches, etc. There's something else very interesting. It's an interesting piece of information from the police report that violations against public order and peace are about 80% of all violations of violence again. This concludes that the apparent violence still prevails as a pattern of behavior in our society. Looking at statistics on minors is also a visible increase in violence, which confirms the actual adoption of this pattern among the young population. In this regard, I think priority number one is to contain violence. These are essentially preventions, i.e. prevention programs that must be brought back to life in every environment and through a system of education and education, and much more in fact run campaigns through the media, talk about the harmfulness of violence, take a negative view of violent behavior, i.e. publicly speaking to us as politicians. When we talk about violence, we wonder what violent acts these are, these are unfortunately very often and severe bodily injuries, severe bodily injury from the haven, attacks on the official person, etc. However, it should be mentioned that there is also mental and emotional violence in peer-to-peer violence, as well as cyber-bulling, i.e. abuse via the Internet of a mobile, but these forms of violence are rarely reported or subject to criminal legal responsibility, and unfortunately they represent a growing and wider form of violence. I here must say, Mr. Minister, and point out the importance of the Crime Prevention Council is not here in a report of the same, but the Crime Prevention Council we in Dubrovnik founded it on the initiative of the police administration and I can say that we are working very intensively to prevent violence and various forms of violence in fact. We do various lectures, and during the course of the lecture, we actually show phenomenal forms of abuse, i.e. we point to not only children but children and parents, and we give guidance on what to do in case the victims are victims of some form of violence as well as ways to protect them. We were also doing a major media campaign in which we wanted the public to know about this problem and to animate the wider social community that in fact it responds to violence and condemnation and reporting to competent services. Since I am, why am I stressing this Council on Crime Prevention? It's precisely because I believe that building public security is not only the work of a police organisation but also the networking of other institutions of society. Therefore, the police in the public security system play a key role and are expected to do so, and it is precisely the first steps to connect all social entities, which they have made an initiative by actually creating a Council on Crime Prevention, but I think that in this way we can actually act more systematically because, in particular, as regards the prevention in these two areas that I have discussed, because very often local self-government decisions can be very helpful in solving them. Here I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will honor my suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7451	Right in a second, thank you very much. The next one came to the floor with a distinguished representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. When he spoke on behalf of the club about this report he first mentioned this last page and indeed the last page should first read and look at this chart of the last pages to know what the content is and what the success of the action of the head person in the Ministry of Interior is already 13 years old. I'm 13 years old. That's where you'll see the shifts, the coming of each other and the going of each other. By 2000, you have this state, even before some 2000, the success has increased, there has been this trend, it is being maintained and it is growing slowly until the end of 2003, and then you have an ambis, you have a break-in. And the biggest break-in you have when comes a savior who will save after then a replacement in the then government of Eve Sanader who brings people, brings people to deal with crime because all of Croatia has been amazed and shocked by the murders that took place. It's all obvious. And the more money it was, the bigger the range. Why did it happen like that? That's no wonder at all. It was interrupted then and sometime before, but then every relationship between the police and the state's attorney's office and everything that's going on in front of the courts today wasn't done in cooperation with the police but by keeping it secret. And that's a shame! In whose service and in which ministry the Ministry of Interior was placed, and thank God that there has been a change of government and that at this moment Minister Rajko Ostojic, who is headed by this ministry, draws up an objective report so that we can see what this was about. And that the public might be aware of what was done and how it was done. After all, it is inaugural, therefore, to their predecessors, Kirin, who loudly and clearly says that he was working on Sanader's orders. Imagine when the police, or the head person, are working on a warrant. And especially when they're good warrants, and imagine what kind of warrants they were. At the end of the day it was publicly spoken, then the prime minister said I gave the order to the police, issued a warrant to the police. And there was no public opinion that one prime minister was doing it. And even if it were all in line, if it were in favour of the law and in favour of detecting the perpetrators of criminal offences, it would not be acceptable. Therefore, the relationship with the state attorney's office, which was necessary before under the Criminal Procedure Act, and in particular by inauguration of a new Criminal Procedure Act, in which the investigation becomes a public prosecutor and where, when a public prosecutor, i.e. a public attorney, takes over the conduct of the proceedings, begins by opening an investigation or making certain advances, then the police must act on their order. And that was then the current Minister Ranko Ostojić as an opposition representative and who was headed by the National Committee was quite clear and acceptable. Let us be honest everywhere in the world in much more democratic countries, always the police in some way try to impose another branch of government, the judicial branch of power. And therefore there must be good legal mechanisms that will enable and prevent such behaviour. The police have great powers above all in prevention I think it's the greatest task of police prevention. He also acts on his own when he finds out about the unsub and secures clues, and in particular he has to do so in a prescribed manner when the State's Attorney's Office asks him to do so when he acts on their orders. If we take a closer look at the State's Attorney's office's report, then we'll see how long it took the State's Attorney's office to meet certain warrants. So what are we talking about? And then there's everything there is clear. Last year, it was marked by an effort by the MUP to impose on the state's attorney's office because they were concerned about how many rejections there have been. And what kind of criminal charges they were against and who they were against and how they ended up being known to the public. It was a political fight with political inexperiences. And that happens in Croatia if she intends to make progress must never happen again. When the state puts itself through the MUP in such an account, then we can't talk about anything else but state terrorism. Police are there to protect citizens, not because of their political ambitions and promotions to file false criminal charges, and when they fail to engage them in anonymous criminal charges and to ask what is wrong with those anonymous reports. So much for their logic. Of course, it did work out, but it may not be because the State's Attorney's Office and of course we did, too, oppose that support to control the rejection or conduct of the State's Attorney's Office on the application. In particular, I will look back at what the most burdens our repressive apparatus, i.e. both the police themselves and the State's Attorney's Office and the trial especially in his criminal branch, and that's what many colleagues have also been talking about, and that's what a repressive apparatus that's always expensive is about? Children who are victims of the most dangerous crime, drug dealers, drug lords. And when we see in the structure of crime, how much drug abuse is especially the most banal part of it, which is possession of drugs, takes over and burdens the work of both the police and the State's Attorney's office later, even the Supreme Court itself. The whole profession has risen against it and is demanding the abolition of this crime so that it can deal with serious matters. 720 has easier and more serious forms of criminal incrimination in the Penal Code, and we have given them in such a way is a complicated law, a gradually wrong criminal policy that has been implemented since 2004, and that has then resulted in what we have done in the penal system that simply those rooms that were once for recreation, for education, for pre-school they only serve dormitory where they sleep with the healthy, tough criminals with random minors or underage persons, and then we have no talk about any resocialization as much as these people there are trying and are interested in providing such a single protection. So, it's good to have such news from Minister Rank Ostojić himself. Also from Justice Minister Orsad Miljanic, who will do so in the same way as we did in 2003, transferred the breaking legislation, mandatory treatment measures, and, as a rule, use the young people as witnesses who will then testify to the discovery of that chain and pyramid so that they can reach those people that things are fully protected because these young people do not want to discover who gave them drugs so that they would not be dragged into the chain first and then still be responsible for organised crime. They simply admit, shut up, never give up those persons and the simplest police and the State's Attorney's office and later the courts are powerless to deal with the most dangerous type of crime. So I think that if we do this ourselves, it will already be an additional one, and we will release these forces to turn most of their energy towards corruption, according to economic crime that was not only happening in Zagreb. Today we just have a picture of Fimi Media has no place and the smallest one that doesn't have its own Fimi Media. It's just waiting for us and it's a matter of first and foremost the local police, but it's also the local state's attorney's office. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7453	The replica was reported by a distinguished representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Antičević here I really agree in one part of your presentation. It's not good when there's a commanding officer who manipulates anyone from the Ministry and so on from the Ministry or someone else. But here's my question, and I expect you to answer me. Who, in your opinion, was the official who had to issue a certificate of impunity ordered by Minister Holy to state as well as that information has from lawyers that it was a closed case, and then the Minister of Justice declares that it was an employee's mistake because two papers were merged and the paper below was not seen? I hope that you, as you have now warned your minister of justice, as well as that of Minister Holy and everyone else, can not be the employer to issue any confirmation, solution or anything else, that it is not under investigation. It doesn't mean at all if someone's under investigation that he's guilty, but it can't happen because we've all had a job and this isn't our professional career, we've worked somewhere. A few times we searched for such confirmations and received them and checks were made and no one thought that if they were on criminal charges to get such a thing, it did not occur to them that they could get it through a relationship so that someone could impose it. And that's why I'm asking you to answer me what your opinion of that employer is, just about one that's certainly not unique and it won't be. If we had a little bit more time, we'd see that there's more. But I agree with you on drug control and other crime, especially in young people, and I'd like to make the next report...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7455	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7456	Here, let me just say to my colleague, surely the same as you, let's see how this law is implemented in reality. I'd say removing young people under 16 and up to 16 without a parent's escort would be very important to know because it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7457	But colleagues of the twilight. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7458	My colleague, that would be disturbing if that were the case, but you would want it to be so and I believe it not because it's happening but that you would have some material to attack power. After all, you don't have to listen and you don't have to trust Mrs. Holly, but I'm surprised you don't believe the report and this brief little investigation that was in that case in the court itself, and it's all appropriate. I won't say how they got there, they came during HDZ rule. And another single line to make it clear to all of us, I think it's going to be useful for you now in the upcoming elections, all of this, all of this has to do with it. All that was happening and what model you had in power and rule, I'm not saying that you were all involved, something more knew, someone was involved more or less, but it couldn't have happened if you hadn't conquered the media and the judiciary and the path to lawlessness was open. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7459	Please don't throw it out of the bench. It's the Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7460	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The second in the number of violations in the 2011 Internal Affairs Minister's report are those in the Family Protection Act, a total of 15015 or 16.3% in the total number of violations. During 2011, 11 women were killed by a male family member. Unfortunately, we did not learn this information from this report, but from the prosecutor's report on gender equality. Let us add that 305 women aged 22 to 47 have been killed in Croatia in the last 10 years. Very often the murderers were their current or ex-husbands or partners. Also, police each year receive between 11.5 and 17.5 thousand applications for domestic violence. In as many as 64 or even some years, up to 71% of the victims were women. In the last 10 years, the Croatian police have received 6625 reports related to the crime of sexual violence. Most often, they are fornicating 34%, rape in 15% of cases, and satisfaction in front of a child or young person in as many as 14% of cases. 21% of women in Croatia experienced physical violence by their partner. It is estimated that among the women who are victims of violence, we are now reaching the most important one, only 5% reported it to the police. So much of this data so far is scarier. In the 11th chapter of this report that we are discussing today, police success in 2011, with a general definition of crime, we learn that world practice has shown that the best systems of preventive measures to prevent crime can affect the reduction of crime of 1% to 2% at the annual level if they are applied in the long term and consistently. At the level of constraint to the exclusive police prevention of domestic violence, especially violence against women can be realistic, but for more extensive and long-term both intervention and prevention of such forms of violence is crucial multi-sectoral cooperation of different institutions that would act on preventing and combating domestic violence, which in this daily work and conduct face directly or indirectly with the problem of violence, which is police, social care centre, healthcare professionals, representatives of regional self-government, judiciary, employees in educational institutions and others. Intersectoral connection and communication between participants who work daily on this issue.../Specials disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7461	Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7462	It is necessary for reasons not to create problems for victims of violence by providing them with conflicting information, by not providing counselling and by focusing on the necessary assistance. So the law determines which acts are considered violent, who is a bully, who is a victim, and what are and what are sanctions. The police are aimed at preventing the re-launching, hence the re-enactment of domestic violence. By sanctioning acts of violence, it partly affects the prevention of violence against women, and this is the topic of my debate, but to effectively reduce the number of violence against women and prevent violence, it is necessary to involve all members of society. It would therefore be good to see more prevention and concrete inter-resor cooperation in the next report for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7463	Thank you. Dear colleague Boris Blazekovic. He's not in the hall, so he's losing his right to discuss this. I call on my colleague Branko Vuksic to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7464	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. That's what it looks like when the police write a report, and that's what it looks like when the police intervene. This photo was taken this morning on Brač. Today afternoon, my colleagues on the board of the ruling coalition taught me that the Parliament is a political stage, and then professional matters can be discussed. If that were true, I was confirmed by Mr. Minister when he arrived and when he answered the question of who ordered it today, who sent the police to Brač. At that time he said exactly one thing, the parliamentary deputies allowed me to intervene with the legal solution seemed to me to be brought in 2009 and that is correct and there is no objection. However, the same law, the same other laws, have authorised police to act on those who steal the same as they did if not more harshly than they did today to the workers who kept what was stolen and what was to be stolen in the future, and will be stolen because numerous examples of bankruptcy in Croatia prove precisely that bankruptcy is being led so long as everything is not robbed and there is no more to be shared. To talk today, on the day of the execution of a kind of destination on Brač, on the day the police arrested the workers who were telling the thieves and the Jadrankamen kept from the robbers, talking at this time for democracy a bad time about statistics, about a clean record and phrases is a complete failure. The 2011 Internal Affairs Minister's report on police affairs, which is a proposal report by the former government, states in the introduction that police affairs are preventing and curbing criminal behaviour. And what is almost most important to us in Croatia with personal security to find illegally acquired property. Looks like the intervention police found billions robbed in Brac. And where on Bratch? At the Jadrankamen worker's. That's why it's to bring back the robbed billions surrounded the houses of workers and trade unions. We'll probably get a lot better tomorrow. After the arrested workers return billions, they will drive the streets of honey and milk. Is that right? Of course not. Everyone understood the irony. In dozens of billions of robbed euros, the immeasurable value of illegally acquired assets is enjoyed by so-called. The pillars of society, not the workers. These pillars of society are mentioned very rarely in this Report. Their companies are mentioned very rarely. These pillars of society are, by all accounts, protected by the police. But that's why he doesn't protect the workers, because they seem to be a danger to the functioning of the rule of law. Those who point to robbers are arrested, not those who have robbed thousands of Adriatics. However, there is virtually nothing in that report. If the police task is to prevent and combat criminal conduct, and to find illegally acquired assets, how is it that the police do not seek this illegally acquired property at the right addresses and do not report it wide and long. I'm sure it wouldn't be enough of those three books to get the police to do the job right. Apparently, the Bratch police arrested the wrong people. While the shopkeepers and their unionists have been in custody for questioning, while different people experience torture and imagine this hypocrite in the name of justice and the conduct of legality Bruno Oresar is being cochopted in front of cameras and giving moral lessons and how he is a genius entrepreneur. But behold, it was destroyed by the workers and the unionists. The workers of course did not destroy anything in Croatia. Croatia is being destroyed by incompetent tycoons and incompetent managers, thieves, and authorities protecting incompetent and dishonest even police. We also have in Zagreb our own Jadrankamen Croatian Radiotelevision on which both Denis Latin and Aleksandr Stankovic and the representatives of the trade union and representatives of the Press Society and the chairman of the Supervisory Board are being stolen. I've talked to some police people wondering what's really going on on HRT. They told me every time we came up with a lead, when we discovered something, they ordered us to get away from HRT. Up to the floor like that? How long will the theft be tolerated, and the work will be punished? By the time the fingertips in the thieving are punished, and the theft is viewed as a natural process. How many times have the media resisted illegally acquired property – a thousand times. And how did the police react to that? So those who do not have cover for even a thousandth of their property continue to enjoy the benefits of the robbery. It would be quite grotesque today on the day of the landing of the strong forces of the MUP on Brač to talk about dry statistics which can ultimately be as statistics often are a complete lie. After reading the Report, there is an impression that in Croatia, both persons and property are under control. Well, it's actually under control, but it's controlled by the watch, it's lurking to the wrong people, and the real ones are often left to the chicans. Of course, Bratch is not a lonely case. Such examples are of an exaggeration. They're small, they're individual, they're even more brutal sometimes and they don't go public, and that's why we don't know about them. Will the corresponding destination of Brač be arrested and the protagonists of Zagreb's Adriatic? Will the police put only some other person's warrant behind the bars of Latin, Stankovic, Maju North, Elizabeth Gojan and Sanja Mikleušević just in case they don't mind, not pointing fingers at those who destroy the Prisavia Jadrankamen. Yeah, and this unreal virtual report still reveals what it doesn't want to reveal. The report says special police intervene in high-risk situations such as abductions, hostage situations, dangerous search, dangerous arrests, demonstrations. Who was that dangerous on Bratsch? Who threatened the Adriatic? Oresar and bankruptcy manager, gravedigger of many companies or Tonci Drpic a loud union leader. Yes, exactly, this situation in Brač is a high-risk situation but for the government, not for the people, not for the workers. That's why the police intervened. She's trying to push the people out, and she'll probably push herself out. They'll push the government that deals with the capitalists, and arrest the workers. This is what we heard already today is the intervention of the rule of law that sees the devil sleeping when to intervene against robbers. That's why every discussion is repeated on the day of the right-wing on a married worker is outstanding... It's a piece of [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reality overshadowed statistics, figures and bureaucratic sentences. Besides, what's the report on police work gonna look like by the year. At that time, a current minister who is certainly not responsible for what the report says will do. What's going to happen is I'm very interested in arresting the workers. What will be written will likely be an imminent bankruptcy of those who have caused hundreds of millions of kuna losses in the Adriatic. And finally. Who controls these actions? Who is responsible for the use of force against workers and the tattooing of stealing pillars of society? Yes, today Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic should answer to us parliamentary representatives for everything that happened in Brac. Without his knowledge of intervention, there wouldn't be. Because on a handful of workers, 75 officers were sent. If, however, the police only intervened at the court's request without the knowledge of the minister and prime minister and 75 police officers were sent to Brac, then we all need to ask ourselves whether we are next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7465	Dear Representative Veljko Kajtazi, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7466	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7467	You want to turn the microphone on, please let us hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7468	... And colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I am speaking to you today to comment on the statements of highly-positioned persons in the Ministry of the Interior that have triggered a wave of similar embarrassing statements for the Roma, and then discriminatory behaviour in the Croatian public, which relate to members of the Roma national minority. After a statement in which the Roma are linked to the high rate of property delicacies in the county that I must stress, there is one of the lowest crime rates in the country, which means that the rate of such delicacies is generally lower than the statement of the Chief of Police of Osijek-Baranja in which he views the mildest language as a problem for our society and sees the solution in the banning of the Roma group from that area. I think that statement has violated the efforts so far to establish positive relations between the entire population living in the area of the county. It is the easiest thing to accuse the Roma, and it is not to provide any concrete evidence. I note to all that future issues should be discussed before the conclusion is reached with elected Roma representatives from the county who will point to the overall situation and difficulties the Roma face. After that, the following day, of course again on the front page of newspapers and portals is a very visible title – Protests by locals Škabrnje. It is a group of people of Skabrnja who built high wire fences between their land and the land of their real neighbours of Roma. All to protect themselves from them even though Roma are the ones who should protect themselves from these aggressive people. I would also like to say that the headlines similar to those in which Roma are mentioned in a negative context are mostly on the front pages and headlines while news of Roma contributions and their important events are mentioned only at the same time and sometimes. The report that we are discussing today shows that a significant part of crime in every society is not revealed for many reasons. It is certain that the Roma are the first to be hit by police officers. And I'm saying that because I've been listening for years, and today I've been listening to Roma who are often, in most cases, unjustly brought in for questioning and suspected of something they haven't done. Their nationality here is indicative. I think the Ministry of the Interior should work seriously on hiring members of Roma nationalities in the police, and I hope that this will come within the framework of the Action Plan for the Employment of National Minorities in State Services. Besides, other projects that concern these issues. Today, I would like to convey to you the concerns of members of the Roma national minority, as well as their own because of the alarming events that have become very common. Such statements and behaviour not only offend Roma but, as our pro-Roma attorney said, lead to their systematic discrimination in all areas of social life, from education to employment is the fact that many Roma do not want to plead as Roma enough to talk about it. Discrimination of minorities, permanent division of us and them does not lead to good and equal relations and tolerance. As long as the Roma are the others who are almost always mentioned in a negative context. I also remind you of every report submitted by the European Commission prior to Croatia's accession to the Union, where in a part dedicated to national minorities, there is always a special distinction between the Serb and Roma minorities as those who can be cast out of enemy behavior. In the end, I would also like to remind you of a case of Roma girls that one store owner in Varazdin did not accept in practice, which is legally sanctioned. This is proof that discriminatory behaviours are not tolerated but that we should not rely solely on legal protection but rather advance discriminatory behaviour by raising and education that will promote mutual respect and friendly behaviour as norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7469	Thank you. The next one will come to us from a distinguished colleague, Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7470	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Police of the Republic of Croatia point out the need and intention of serving citizens to respect the fundamental rights of man, in particular to act legally, professionally, loyally, confidentially, justly and toleranceally. Well, unfortunately, we couldn't see this tolerantly or professionally in recent media headlines such as the terrifying homophobic outburst of a belovar police officer or the shocking testimony of a police officer protecting men who beat women. So this is about the existence of certain prejudices, it's obviously discrimination, it's obviously human rights violations. And it is the police, as the minister was saying at the outset, who plays a key role in protecting the rule of law and protecting human rights. And whenever police do their job either to investigate crimes, they execute court orders or when they come in contact with citizens every day the way they do or how they behave symbolise and the way they respect and protect human rights. And that is exactly how the police carry out their duties shows the degree of development of democracy and the degree of respect for human rights. Police officers are employed from wide layers of society and can vary greatly in knowledge and prejudice about different minorities or groups. Some prejudices can be shared and publicly expressed or hidden. In any form, they may influence police behaviour against certain groups or minorities. Therefore, there may always be a risk that police officers treat certain groups in different ways either directly or indirectly unless active measures or preconditions are taken to prevent such behaviour. Politics in this process plays a key role and we must make it clear that any discrimination on any basis is unacceptable. The state should ensure professional standards that impose equal treatment and prohibit any kind of discrimination when applying the law by anyone, especially the police, because it is the police that should actively protect human rights. Police should therefore be given education and other forms of professional support necessary to understand and respond adequately to the sensitivity of all groups of citizens. Police in democratic countries of the world have their professionalism and reputation, except for the effective resolution of criminal offences, which is linked to education. The training and education of police is also the key to the security of all groups of citizens regardless of which sex or religion or whatever lifestyle they choose. Modernising and improving police training directly contributes to more efficient police procedures, making it clear and better relations with the community. It is necessary to provide such training that officers need to be able to think about their own opinions and prejudices as well as how they will be sure that they do not influence their work. In my opinion, in the programme of education for the profession of police officers at the Police Academy, it is necessary to strengthen the programme and increase the captainship of human rights courses and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and police ethics. The curricula and the programme is based on the decision of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and I hope that the ministry will also consider, when making such decisions in the coming period, that as much as possible of those topics dealing with human rights and police ethics as possible be included in the curriculum and programme for the acquisition of professional training for the interest of a police officer. to consider the need to increase the captainship of such or such items. On the other hand, our officers face great difficulties and prejudices about their daily work daily in their work. Demeaning and demeaning police officers destroys the dignity of the Croatian state because police officers are its foundation and the first defence wall. And I therefore welcome the initiative of Interior Minister Rajko Ostojic, who founded the Commission for Criminal and Legal Protection of Police Officers in the ministry. Criminal and legal protection of police officers is extremely important because only legally protected police officers can be determined, legal, professional and uncompromising protectors of Croatian citizens. And that's why I think it's a good thing that the Ministry recently called on all police officers to describe their experiences and situations they met in their work on legal protection and to present their proposals to improve that protection. Based on these proposals of experience, the ministry plans, and I hope soon to make and propose legal changes that would facilitate and ensure the safer and more effective work of our police, thereby increasing its reputation. I hope that these changes will be sent to the legal procedure as soon as possible and found on our benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7471	Thank you. The last debate of 10 minutes will be those of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7472	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a little absurd about this situation, namely the current minister is signing a report that someone else has set up as such, and on the other hand, I'm very, very glad today, and I hope that the current minister who signed this report will be very well read by him and by listening to what we said tonight and what we said next year is certainly going to be where and where more competent and richer for at least some knowledge. I sign here is everything that my colleague Dunja Špoljar said and what Sonja said about human rights and discrimination and especially non-compliance with the Law on Gender Equality. I would take advantage of the Minister's opportunity once again to tell you that last year's conclusion of the Assembly Committee has put the MUP in charge of respecting the provisions of Article 17 in all its future reports. The law on gender equality which prescribes that all statistics and information on persons to be collected, recorded and processed by the authorities and bodies of units of local and regional self-government, legal and physical persons carrying out activities in accordance with the regulation must be shown by sex. Here I would really underline it for the reasons that you and such statistics do not serve only you in the police department but serve an awful lot of other institutions, an awful lot of associations dealing with certain problems. I know it wouldn't take you any extra time and extra costs because when you come out, you're already taking data on both the date of birth and the sex and everything else, so that the data as such certainly exists in your database, but here again I would ask you to present them as such and to the general public not only for us here in the Assembly but for many others who have to do some special research on certain samples. I'll drive back to my colleague Sponz who talked about the lack of police officers in Istrian County especially during the summer months. He told you everything I would tell you, and I'll add something else and try to ask you. You said the gross amount of one employee's annual policeman is 187,000 kuna. I've been paying attention to you that I've known for a long time at the Istra Police Administration that you know that, but I'd like to ask that it be finally settled in the leading places parallel to two jobs, two executives work parallelly. Next thing you know, I'd like to ask you, or I'd like to say, "What exactly is with the cops in the community?" Why doesn't that work? We have on the website contact, we have on the websites even a photo of a cop in the community, but we don't see him anywhere. And according to this statistical data, what concerns me particularly is the crimes of children, even minors but children, especially where we read from abuse of intoxicating drugs to fornications, to heavy thefts, muggings, confiscation of other people's moving things, extortion, endangerment of life and property, illicit possession of weapons. I have now listed only what the increase in 2011 is compared to 2010 in a very large percentage. That cop in the community, I think, would have made his role as such because we've already heard here tonight in a few exposures that these underage boys and those kids are gathering out there because they have nowhere else to go. As a result, abuse of intoxicating drugs has been increased, alcohol abuse of minors and children is evident. All this is happening somewhere in front of our eyes, and I think that this cop in the community, if nothing else, might have had one preventive action, and then, in the inability to find quality space, there might be fewer situations like this. The last question, I won't go any further, the last question I'd ask you to answer, concerns Jadrankamen and Bratch. You said in the beginning that the Parliament gave authority to react today, and we have already determined that it is true. In the report on page 8 I quote: of the 4704 requested assistance, 4499 aid were granted, while 205 were rejected. The most requests for assistance were rejected because the applicants did not justify the justification for the expectations of resistance. I'd just like to ask you a question, if you can and can tell me, if it's not a secret that the public should not know, what did it say today at the court's request sent to the Ministry of the Interior as a request for assistance, which was listed as a justification for the expected resistance you've responded to as a ministry. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7473	Thank you. We will now hear the closing address of the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7474	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. I thank you first of all for your contribution and for all the things of course we will take advantage of and that there will be an indication of how to draw up a better report. Unlike others, perhaps ministers, I have acted in a way that I said at first that I was interested in sharing positive guidelines with this assembly, that we expect you to have a positive direction on how to do better, and I think that this is the right way and for this reason I try regularly and come to the Croatian Assembly on all committees. I have listened very carefully to all your remarks and I am pleased that you have recognized and positive things in this segment What you have told us as criticism and said that it should be repaired I can tell you that without special comments we will take, repair, especially the part that referred to gender equality. I also confirmed this on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security when that remark was made, but the report was already in your hands, so it didn't make sense to change it all of a sudden, but I accept these things. Here's the deal, I think it's time for me to answer to the MPs about the remarks they were, and hopefully I'll be able to cover everything that's been said here so we can lose some more time in the Parliament, but I don't think that's going to be spent badly because this topic is extremely important, and that's how we treat it. First of all, we had Mr. Goran Volarevic with us today who is the head of the Department of Strategic Planning, Analysis and Development at the Ministry of Interior for this very reason, which is that a man who has been in the system for more than three decades will be there by hand and listen to all these things because these are the people who are making these very reports for you and I think it was useful. Since you've welcomed him many times as an associate minister, I believe he's also heard praises about making that report itself. About the number of police officers in Istria, which was immediately at the beginning, is a problem that has lasted for 30 years. So neither just for the Croatian period of interest in entering the police in Istria County is weak. It is true that people enter the MUP even accept contracts that bind them to the Istrian County but immediately go for a transfer and at times when a certain time goes by, in fact, those who made the trade, which means after completing schooling when they leave Istria alone. That's right. Secondly, the projects we are planning to do include the elements of everything mentioned and the decentralisation of power around the municipal police project is in the works, on the issue of housing. I can't talk about all the details right now because it would be inconclusive to say that it's settled, but I believe we're going to find a way to at least stimulate those police officers who would be interested and with that motive to have their police career in Istria. It is not only Istria but other tourist areas and this means that Dubrovnik-Neretva County is in a similar problem. So we have two counties where there's a particular problem, especially in view of these commitments that come around the border. Some of the actions that are already taking place, which is that our own rationalization of the reduction of people in operational duty is about how we better organise ourselves, we get employees who could do more in operations. Also, the reduction in the number of people in a leading position and inciting that a man who does quality and orderly work can have a decent salary, that he can live neatly from it and that he does not necessarily have to become head of the department to retire with normal incomes. That's our goal, but I think a much more important topic today is just a report. As for crime by entering the European Union, of course it has already started to reflect on the Republic of Croatia. Part of this is in this report as statistics, and we are preparing for a complete project that only one piece of information is that we have 100 percent more asylum requirements, that we have over 100 percent actually illegal border crossings. You could see this from statistics and that Croatia becomes a country destination not only transits anymore. A special part is peer violence, hate crimes. Of course it's a theme that every parliamentary representative believes has in particular focus and interest. And so the police in my segment have to point out the positive trends that have been made both in prevention and among other things, I would remind you of something that is related to hate crime and peer violence. It was a parliamentary issue, a parliamentary representative's question on the topical clock specifically around the Serbian Orthodox School. We solved the case the next day. I'm glad that's how we reacted because it's very important that such data are very positive and that means that we can quickly solve these forms and that, for example, in Vukovar, we haven't had data or the situation of conflicting peers in years. And I think that these are positive trends and I come to exactly what was mentioned, and these are the Prevention Councils for which I have to mention that they are one of the quality forms and extensions of exactly the situation you mentioned, which is a police project in the community. It's true that this project was neglected. I believe that we will soon come into a situation that will bring him back to full function as he was at his beginning, which is in 2003 that it is a quality form and that he will be recognized again by the police as a quality method of prevention. As far as drugs are concerned, I wouldn't repeat street drug reduction of all data if it were true that the police were focused primarily on the situation that, of course, whoever was in possession or consummation in that street reduction was not a priority, but that's actually losing a huge amount of energy. And our way, or organization in the police, makes it impossible for large fish, or those who actually organize all of this together, and should be a priority and a focus of police work. I believe that, for example, the Croatian police are very good at international operations and have very successful results, I believe that these days we will also hear quality, the situation that in the same way we in Croatia can increase the quality of our successes or cooperation with the DORH and the realization of common guidelines that we have found that we can do more especially with regard to these envisaged legislative changes in that we will never talk about the fact that drug possession or drug use is something that comes into the area where we need to speak carefully. It is said that he is going into a felony, not a criminal offence, not with the intention to encourage himself, but that is why the focus is turned towards the most difficult forms and the real criminals, or those who are willing to deal drugs. I must stress that a 25% rejection is something I believe is an unacceptable situation for everyone. Each fourth police report, unfortunately filed under official duty, was rejected. Together with the DORH, we were just working on that, in line with these new legal solutions, better cooperation, to make that number smaller because I think it's a serious and serious situation in which trust is really a question. Because if in every fourth police report you doubt whether she's true, of course, whether she's justified or proven it's a great uncertainty for the citizens. And we're gonna try to make the most of it to change that. As for the county, schedules for the counties of Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska. It is true that we have a certain legacy of one wrong way of hiring people especially because not all circumstances have been respected, but I believe that the issue of schedules and ways of organization along with our proposals that we intend to do, which is with greater mobility of police officers and concentration on criminality, rather than the question of the number of inhabitants themselves, will be the right way. The suicides of minors social conditions I mention this for the reasons that it's important to say that the police won't be able to solve it alone as a cop in the community is not the only one who can replace everything but can be one of the segments. I believe that just about all the efforts and what has been asked for is quality among the restoring cooperation, quality police work together with all those responsible for bringing better results. I'm inclined to say that it's better to tell the right information than to lie. That's how we tried to present today and talk to you with the MPs. The women of Vukovar are very familiar with this case. I must say, at this point, there are 1580 persons on the force or wanted for various war crimes, the judicial verdicts that occurred during the war. Along with DORH, of course, cases are handled. I know it's extremely difficult to repeat all these traumatic experiences about these statements all we can answer will be prepared in the police and we're trying to help because we've changed tactics. We believe that, above all, the victims need help, and even the women who are in this situation, we try to do so with the least trauma for them. As far as the Department of Juvenile Delinquency and the Department of Family Violence is concerned, as soon as we are in a situation where we change our profession, they will say that as far as the Head of Police is concerned, which is the most appropriate form of accepting these initiatives that were related to a better or better work on violence among young people and family violence. It's a protocol of conduct. Exactly that there are differences in Croatia, it is true that it is not working equally everywhere and that education and everything you said that I do not repeat about the Police Academy, for education is otherwise absolutely standing. We have one situation that the police are capable of being there. I think there is room to be with all their efforts and their desire to be educated, but also from our side the Ministry of Interior through its projects to enable them to, if they don't know anything, be able to overcome it through education that we have conditions, I believe, and experts but also help the International Community. We won't stop at that, we're absolutely interested. I have yet to say about the Crime Prevention Council I also thank Mr. Keatazi's parliamentary representative for pointing out exactly these positive examples of how many councils he can do, but I must also say how many statements no matter how much you come to discuss prevention, etc., this is a very sensitive area. And I think every sentence, every word can be turned around. It can happen, the truth is that the media here are ruthless and they're ready to get out of context. I hope that that case we had was somehow useful because we at least reacted immediately, showed what it was really about, which direction. The interior ministry is absolutely looking for a partner in the Roma community. My intensity when I came to Međimurje was to look not only for Roma police officers but for those involved but for them to be the head of the contact center, to ensure joint work. Later on, all the events and sensitivity of a homophobic police officer in Bjelovar were spotless as far as police administration was concerned. The same thing was with the text that applied to the colleagues. We have a system inside the police at this point and that's what you can be sure of, and that's that if we're wrong, we're willing to say that we're wrong, we're quick to sanction, we're not going to lie that we're interested in creating a fake image just for the sake of the reputation of the police. And that's something we're trying to make our part of the deal maximum. I support all efforts, and I believe that together on the action plan, I express my willingness immediately to, together with you and all those who are there, not to heat the atmosphere, but to be jointly engaged in realisation and national not only waiting for the councils in the middle to do it, or even worse, to have someone on the side of us interpreting how we should do it. So use this message of mine because we are absolutely interested in doing it together. About tolerance, about human rights and everything else, and the report itself, I believe that you will have confidence and that this is a fundamental strategic intensity, which is that intruding into human rights fundamental things in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is something we want to respect as police. The bankruptcy proceedings are covered by the situation and the criminal acts carried out on the basis of the request of the DORH. The situation was different later, and for this reason last year there were six cases. As many as we get, we do it. That kind of report goes to the police. It is true that more can be done, I believe that in that part is acceptable and new representatives of whom I see most of you are actually new with due respect to those who are already here, but for years I have advocated to be in front of you of the State's Attorney's Office Report of the Republic of Croatia and the Home Affairs Minister's report on police affairs. It would be much easier to look at the complete picture and the situation in which the police were then seen, how much of it was done, and then some of the affairs that were given in the text section might be easier and processed. To the question about Planinska there can only answer that one company and 4 persons that have been reported are therefore to be, so it is true that all intermediaries have been reported for 30 million. All other things will likely be found in the report next year. There will be plenty of them, I'm sure that this start that the police have already made in these first months shows that such a direction and the determination of damage will be on the trail of what is, of course, consistent with certain statements that we've heard here today about someone protecting someone, that someone is answering someone, that I don't know now I'm not going to use those words, but let me look back at this last part of the messages that were. The first respected fellow MPs were correct that police last year had 4 499 requests for assistance. Probably none of them caused this much means media pumps and preparations for this same thing. That's what the court asked in 139, and the court asked the police to assist. Therefore, this intervention, which was based on Article 7, took place last year in 1399 cases. Is the application filed? Yeah, I read that, by the court. Was resistance expected? It was clear that for the reason that the first intervention that had failed. So my colleague Lesar asked me if she was successful? Today, yes, and before that scheduled 18.04, because a bankruptcy manager was prevented from entering the room was not successful. And that's why it was supposed to be given the expected resistance, and since we used a little bit of pictures here, then I'll do the same thing, and that's just one sentence. The blood will fall! I think that's enough. So much for whether the resistance is announced or not. I don't think it's good to send a message when the police are working under the law. I've deliberately skipped a lot of things, and lattices and stones and everything else that's happened today in order not to raise tensions. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7475	I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić. We'll stop working now. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 A report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2010. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-03-0.u7476	Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2011. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report by the Minister of Interior on police affairs in 2011. Who's to such a conclusion please raise your hand. ... The report is the Minister of Interior for 2011 [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That's what you're gonna vote for, just like us. Who's against it? ... You might have a different opinion, I don't know. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Abstained? I find that the conclusion was accepted by a majority of 105 votes to three against and two abstentions.
