ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5166	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am truly pleased that by presenting the Final Proposal of the Law on Social Welfare, a fundamental law which determines the activities of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, I can take this opportunity to present to you all and in fact the ministry that has, for the first time, the entire social policy, all social services and activities, and in one place, united all social services users. Unlike previous experiences, when social care, or social policy, was mainly part of another ministry and, in some ways, an addition to a large part of the activity, and the result was that over the past years, the important system of social care and care for socially sensitive groups has often been negligible. With this final proposal of the Social Care Act, we also want to present in some way the specifics that we have set for ourselves in the ministry as the direction of our future work. The social care system in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by the Social Care Act applicable from 2 June 2011. It was adopted on the grounds that a way to achieve rights and services under the Social Care Act should be brought into line with the reforms already launched in the social care system as well as changes in social policy, thus offering different solutions to meet the needs of users. And although it has always been pointed out at the declarative level that social care is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia, the welfare system has been unfairly neglected for a number of years at national and local level, and the units of local self-government have systematically approached the resolution of certain problems or problems depending on the means they have, which were generally not enough, or in general have always been insufficient. As a result of such access to the social care system, the derelict of the system is present at all levels, irregularities and inefficiencies of the system, overlapping of individual rights at national and local level, lack of information and networking within the system and with other systems, inequality in handling, lack of professional and other staff as well as an uneven allocation of existing personnel according to real burden. The Social Care Act, which has therefore been applicable since 2 June 2011, should have provided conditions for the regulation and arrangement of the system which unfortunately did not happen. According to information collected from experts within the social care system as well as from users themselves, the current Social Care Act did not just justify the expectations of the profession, the public and the citizens as needed, but its application led to additional chaos due to the inability to implement it in a large part of the provisions. In the hasty procedure of passing laws, the Resort Ministry excluded experts and experts who directly applied the law, which pointed to the situation in practice and the inability to implement such a pretentious law which was known in advance not to be enforceable under the existing conditions. The application of the law should always assume its as simple as possible implementation in a way that is acceptable and understandable to the users of social care services, as well as to experts who apply it in their daily work. This law was passed without prior consultation with the base, without an analysis of the situation and without a new regulation on space, equipment and necessary professional and other workers of the social care centre. Further difficulties in everyday work, especially in social care centres, have led to the application of the law in the conditions of early reform of the social care system that was implemented at a rapid pace without the previous preparation of professional workers, without clear arguments for the selection of the labour model, and in the subsequent study of the impact of the introduction of a new organisation of work in the pilot project has proved very questionable. It is also important to point out that the experts of the Social Care Centre pointed out the need to create a prerequisite before the adoption of a new law that included some new rights and social services in the social care system and provided for a much more complex procedure which is not professionally justified under the existing conditions. The minimum conditions should be to adopt rules on space, equipment and professional and other centre workers and to complete the system information and networking process. An important law was established by the 21st Department of Social Care in the County, or the City of Zagreb, with the aim of rationalising a single administrative place, and the existing centres for social care became branches, noting that part of the former social care centres lost their branch status in such a way that they became the headquarters of the Social Care Institute, so the law was not consistently implemented. The complexity of the rules governing social care rights is caused by a complex process of exercise of rights, which, of course, affects users of certain socially sensitive groups whose personal resources are also insufficient information, education and many others making access to rights more difficult. Due to the lack of an integrated information system and the automatic exchange of data control and verification, a large part of the administrative work is done by professional workers, which requires a lot of time and makes it difficult to work quality professionally with users. The development of the social care system resulting from the cooperation of the RES and the World Bank was followed in response to the need for systematic changes in this area, in which the welfare system is aligned with the criteria and standards in force in the countries of the European Union. The law did not ensure the implementation of the expected effects and the adoption of this Law makes the first step in creating a new, rational and more effective social care system, aimed at socially endangered citizens. It is important to note that the project of development of the social care system is only part of the necessary reforms to achieve the project's objectives and to make the effects of the project visible to the user, to the social care system and to the experts in the system. The user should get a system in which the application will be simpler and faster, in which help will be better directed towards those who really need it, and better control will avoid duplication or I will say multiple rights and help. It is also necessary to develop a greater range of services in the community and to improve the conditions for the stay of users in social care institutions and other service providers and to increase the quality of services and to reduce the time spent by users receiving these services. The removal of the instructions introduced by the applicable law will simplify the process of exercise of rights, and the introduction of an information system will reduce administration and professional workers will spend more time working directly with the user and family. The wider reform of the social care system, which is a project for the development of the social care system, only one small part involves gradual decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation as our main provisions, for which solutions are proposed in this law a necessary prerequisite. The establishment of the Department of Social Care at County level is prescribed by the applicable social care law, which has been in force since 2 June 2011, led to the centralisation of the system even though the planned objectives of reforming the social care system should have gone towards a gradual decentralisation of the system. The implementation required additional financial resources to implement the status changes and connect the new structure with the ministry, although the procedure for the adoption of the applicable law stated that no financial resources were needed for its need. Such centralisation of requests and additional financial resources for the pooling of jobs, data exchange, information, reports and centralised the system in terms of human resources management, which distances the service that should be in the role of citizens in the local community where the rights and services of the social care system live. Such a structure is further contrary to the principle of availability of information and services to the user and to the long-term objectives of the Republic of Croatia in strategic documents aimed at the gradual decentralisation of public services and financial resources. During the brief application of around eight months of law, additional problems have been identified, which are one of the essential reasons for the adoption of the new Law, primarily with regard to the organisation of the work of the Department of Social Care and Branches. The existing organisation has, in accordance with the established competences of the branch of the social care centre and of the social care services, become inaccessible or significantly more expensive. In most of the institutions, there are no preconditions for payment of cash compensation in a way that meets the needs of the user in view of the established structure and dislocated nature of the branch, the slowed communication of branches with the institution with regard to the competences relating to employment and other labour relations of all workers of the office has been made difficult. It is also difficult to operate regularly with regard to the material costs needed for regular operation, which is a waste of time, speed and timeliness in user tours. The application of the applicable law lacked the continuity of systemic action in order to further implement the social care system, given that concrete centralisation took place instead of decentralisation. And public service has become ineffective and inaccessible to citizens. The law also set out the objective of creating a new, more rational and more effective social care system, aimed at socially most vulnerable citizens and socially sensitive groups in line with the criteria and standards in force in the European Union countries. As funding for social care activities is provided mainly from the state budget, it is extremely important to take care of the amount and purpose of spending on the state budget provided for that purpose. The reason for the adoption of the new Social Care Act is primarily based on the need to establish a more effective system that will lead to decentralisation including fiscal decentralisation in the best possible way to apply fair and accessible to the user, with individualising the needs of users. This Legislative Proposal governing the activities of social care is based mainly on the same provisions on which the system has been regulated until the adoption of the applicable Law, with significant improvements in respect of new knowledge and methods of working with the user. This legislative proposal better regulated principles in the social care system are more clearly governed by the rights of users and the procedure for their recognition, including the right to improved services, improved procedures for the provision of services, a reorganised way of conducting administrative and inspection supervision in accordance with the provisions of the State Administration System Act. The proposed Law in a more high-quality manner provides an area of social services in such a way that social service providers are selected on the basis of a public tender for filling the social services network rather than through concessions as governed by the applicable law in view of the complexity of the concession procedure. The licensing procedure prescribed by the applicable Act as a condition for the start of the service provider’s work is currently simply not applicable and its introduction will be related to the completion of the introduction of the standard of quality of social services in the efficiency of social care. Finally, we are convinced that this law will ensure the minimum standard of living precisely for the most vulnerable part of the population and the proper meeting of the personal and family needs of socially sensitive groups with particular emphasis on EU social inclusion guidelines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5167	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5168	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I will quote the Honorable Deputy Minister at the beginning of my presentation: "The existing law has been passed hastily without prior consultation with the base". Which is not true. We who were here in the previous assembly were able to monitor the adoption of this law. He was at a public hearing published on websites. It included about 30 different institutions, and a hundred proposals were adopted that certainly improved the basic proposal shown by the ministry in law-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5169	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Ms. Bilina Borzan, on behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5170	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Health and Social Care discussed this bill at its 3rd session held on 7 March 2012. The proposer's representative pointed out that this existing law, instead of rationalising costs and decentralisation, actually took place centralisation of the system and cost increases, and did not ensure the implementation of the expected effects. In order to create a new and more rational, more effective social care system, which should primarily be directed towards socially endangered citizens, was in fact discussed in the debate. The complexity of the rules so far and the complex process of exercise of law have made it difficult to access rights and hinder the efficiency and availability of the service. As a result, the services were inaccessible or significantly more expensive. The provisions of the new law, in the opinion of most members, have created preconditions for further reforming the social care system according to EU criteria and standards and system development project. The planned introduction of the information system will reduce administration and ensure a better and more efficient performance of system professionals. As the proposed law highlights, the existing social care system better regulates and simplifies what will contribute to the deinstitutionalisation process and improve the quality of life of socially sensitive groups. After the discussion, the members of the board voted mostly 5 for, 2 against, 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Social Care Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5171	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that we support the urgent procedure of passing this law. We consider it justifiable, not just justified, we consider it a necessary and only logical solution. The attempt to reform the social care system in June last year was an absolute failure. It has caused chaos on the ground that has cost us as we have heard and cost, and we consider the changes to this law to be kind of fire measures that are trying to make things as much back to normal as possible. The social care system is without a doubt and we will agree on this extremely important system and it seems to me especially in these for many difficult times, times of poverty activity is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this is a portfolio so neglected and neglected in the past period that I am almost certain that it is impossible to find someone who believes that the welfare system rests on good health grounds that it works well to provide citizens with a quality level of social care and that the system should remain as it is. Besides hardworking people working in the welfare system and trying to bridge or compensate for the problems of bad laws, we don't really have anything right now. The result of the wrong approach to the welfare system is very much, and I would say at all levels. Today we can say that the social care system is in ruins, that it is ineffective, that the dispute, that it is bureaucratic, that it is rigid, that we have overlapping of certain rights at national and local level, that the information is insufficient or that the process of informing the system is not done to the end. So both the system and the people in it with the wrong policy I would say the former government has really led to the limits of endurance. One word requires a fundamental change in the social care system. We need a modern system completely different from this, we need a system that is able to spotly respond to the needs of citizens. Many problems in the social care system also point to the necessity of reform that should contribute to the effectiveness of the social care system and modernisation of its and democratisation, etc. As we had the opportunity to hear the current Social Care Act, not only did it not justify expectations of neither the profession nor the public, but even fewer citizens who were in need, but its application led to additional chaos as if we were not enough with the one we already had in the system. When we realistically look at things and events in the past 7, 8 years, we have to realize that today's catastrophic situation in the social care system actually couldn't have been different. Don't worry about this resistor, the care that lasts so long is reflected in several facts. The first is certain that even three ministries were responsible for this resort. It's kind of like no one wanted a welfare system. And of course the expectations are great precisely from the fact that now finally the first time the welfare system has a separate ministry. We put a lot of hope and faith into that very fact. Secondly, for reforming the welfare system, I would remind you that we get a loan from the World Bank. Not a small loan of 31m euros, and the Swedish International Development and Cooperation Agency has approved a 1.6m-euro gift. It would be quite justified to ask a question, although I must admit I don't know who at this time, where did the gentlemen go with that money? In what is spent, what has been spent on the millions of euros we have received for reforming the social care system. Because we certainly didn't spend it on reform. And the third final situation we have is expected because that's how it always happens when you don't respect the profession, when you don't listen to what the profession has to say. And as we have heard from Mr. Deputy, this law has been passed without prior consultation with the base, and in that sense, your colleague, Roksandić, disagrees absolutely. Because if it were what you say today on the ground, we wouldn't have the situation we have. Even less, an analysis of the situation was carried out, not to mention that the law was passed without a new regulation, with regard to space, equipment, the necessary professional and other workers of the social care centre. So, during the debate on the proposal for a former government law, we warned of the great damage that seems to the welfare system. We were saying then that we were discussing an illogical, conceptually wrong, unarranged and finally unacceptable bill which he had aimed at is what was very harmful to the system, which was intended to further centralise the system. We considered this extremely dangerous and completely contrary to what we need and at the end of the day a system of social care rests in developed European countries, which is decentralisation and a different model of cooperation with local authorities. It must finally become clear to us that citizens meet all their social needs at the level of cities and municipalities. That's where their needs happen. This means, then, that these needs must be addressed and addressed at that very level and must be addressed and planned. Only then does it seem to me that we will become good public money masters, or the citizens' money will then be most rational and used. So, the June 2011 law, as we have heard, and as we know, has established county welfare institutions. This meant centralisation, as I said, and it is absolutely contrary to the long-term objectives of the functioning of the Republic of Croatia which has accepted and which plans to decentralisation services and funds. In addition, the establishment of the Institute of Social Care has led to something else that was not good, it was absolutely not necessary, and it is a drain of a insufficient number of expert staff from the welfare center anyway. The establishment of the institute may have made sense but only at the level of all of Croatia as an institution that will in some way unite, which will plan, create and improve the social policy of the state and bring standards into line in the system but also in direct connection with the base of social care activities, so to the centres. Experiences from 8 months of application of the law talk about a whole series of primarily organisational problems which are negatively reflected in the quality of professional work and the establishment of user rights. We've heard about some of these organisational problems from Mr. Deputy. However, I would mention several of which I find somewhat absurd and certainly unnecessary and useless institutions are set up in major cities which are also the headquarters of the county for which users were forced to travel in order to exercise their social welfare rights, and there is no need to ignore the fact that for some it was a huge problem such as persons with disabilities or persons with extremely small incomes. Not to mention that professional workers are additionally burdened with administration with a chronic lack of time to perform professional work with users. Cooperation, as we heard between branches and institutions, has proved to be very bad, even catastrophic. The head of the district centres have been turned into couriers, which certainly leaves them with less time for professional work. All decisions of the branch relating to monetary payments must be physically delivered to the Bureau on signature by the Director, which is illogical and does not make much sense. In practice, it happens that the branch office did not pay parking costs for the official car, and that criminal penalties must be paid. So these are all absurds, and perhaps one of the most illustrative ones, which is the one that says that for the payment of travel orders for official travel, employees of the branch centres must, for example, go to the office in Dubrovnik. In doing so, they must cross a distance of 80 km and cross the border twice. Is it fair to ask, does that make sense? The question arises as to the purpose of paying the travel order which can be less than the money spent to get to Dubrovnik. So, illogicality is very much. The profession has been brought into an unenviable position and we can therefore say that the law of June has done a lot of damage, which is the most important to a significant extent, has made it difficult and has bureaucratized the conditions of professional work. Therefore, the area of social care was needed, it was necessary to regulate it in a much simpler way as possible and we believe that the Social Care Act that we are discussing today is going in this very sense and that is why we in the SDP club absolutely support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5173	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First correction Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5174	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, co-worker Jerkovic made several incorrect allegations, mostly what she did earlier was somehow negatively characterized, but I noticed, I will concentrate on two allegations, she said the attempt to reform social care was a complete failure. That's incorrect. And secondly, the second allegation is the same which is incorrect that this resort was ignored and abandoned during past governments. That's absolutely incorrect because I'm going to remind you that no compensation for services has been abolished, has been reduced. The second thing, in difficult economic circumstances, did not decrease the budget, so it remained the same. And look at the wonders now in this budget 50 million kuna funds less. I want to warn you to make sure you don't be a mess because more and more needy people are picking up. So, the record of the unemployed, VAT has increased, and these 80 boards of directors and directors will certainly cost. I want to warn you, it's gonna take a lot of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5175	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5176	Dear and dear Mr. President, your grace and kindness and the current Rules of Procedure have enabled me to correct a colleague whom I congratulate on International Women's Day as well as all present women and all over Croatia. This is what I first said about these possible fines for a spoken word in the Parliament, so that's why I called you. So here, thanks to your grace and kindness, I am correcting an incorrect allegation of a distinguished representative. Perhaps the fact that the former law was passed without consulting the competent services and those working in welfare centres is, however, also the law enters the procedure because it is going through an emergency procedure and there is also no consultation with the entire base. Neither with users nor with those who work in the service nor with units of local and regional self-government. So here I thank the dear and kind president, his grace and kindness has made it possible for me without a fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5177	Thank you very much. What you just said, I'll comment when the time comes, and now is not the time and I don't know why you said it. Obviously, you took something out of context, but anything is possible. But it's not possible what you assumed was possible, at least not on my side. Let's move on to the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5178	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honored gentlemen and ladies from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Miserables do not need compassion, but righteousness. After all, poverty is the result of inequality. So poverty measured using a relative line is a method that is mentioned several times in this law can be reduced. Just by reducing income inequality. This law will not reduce inequality, but it is therefore trying to introduce the constitutional principle of solidarity and socialism in a quote: "applicable, fair and user-friendly manner." The new law should ensure a more rational and efficient welfare system focused on the socially vulnerable citizens and experts to apply this law. Antun Radic is the most famous prayer paraphrasingly adapted it to the poor. Give us today and tomorrow and the day after. The Law on Social Care should hopefully leave prayer in the original for spiritual food to those who feed spirituality in this way. In the discussion of social care, it is sarcastic to mention justice, especially new justice that sounds just as ironic as new democracy. The point of government is to be honest. In order to be fair, the Law on Social Care must provide a minimum of dignity to those whose powers are powerful, but not solidly often and insensitive society has taken away their dignity by deprived them of their fundamental rights and freedoms. First, the fundamental right to work is the right to help those who cannot do so to ensure their own and their families a existential minimum. These fellow citizens have more rights to help than the powers of extra profits. The law does not speak this Labour language, but on paper it provides a simpler way and way into the social care system. It secures, I repeat on paper, words that in these three months are the only tools of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Thus, the law creates assumptions for a simpler, faster and fairer exercise of citizens' rights with needs, and professionals' work with as little obstacles as possible. When reading these 100 pages of regulations and humanistic principles, it is difficult not to notice a good intention or even one for decentralisation. In Croatia never even touched. Each person must receive information on rights and services, information on the right to support and how it is easier and faster to achieve it. The law, hand to heart, is precise, detailed, which does not mean that any possible problem is impeccable. For example, Article 37 provides that when a single or family member does not have the right to support. It is said: "it will be denied their right if they own a registered car even if it is worth 300 euros." In last year's law, the value of a car should not be greater than 20 thousand kuna. Whether a car of several hundred euros is a luxury for which help should be denied for those who need help, I'm not sure. But social aid was received and won and won because the Law does not say anything about it, and those who drive BMWs or Jaguars, for these expensive tin pets are not registered to them but to aunts, grandmothers, cousins, and other relatives. The right to help will not be given to persons who own or co-ownership an apartment, house or other facility that does not serve it or a member of a family for a living. What could this facility be, a wasteful house in Žumberk, a strategist in the Dalmatian hinterland, why is the pretender to social aid not selling? The answer could be that there's a spending house on Žumberk or in Međimurje trying to sell Minister Opačić. Either let it be taken by the state or local self-government. A major obstacle to obtaining help will also be the size of the apartment, or house. The Proposer of the Law prescribes that one person may belong to 35 meters of square dwellings or houses which, with the rest of the space, an old man in the house in the Korduan village. In a house of 65 or 85 square meters worth more than 35 square meters of apartment in Zagreb. These criteria are worse than the criteria set out in the current Social Care Act, it is commendable that this law also views social care users as the necessary citizens of the social community. Which has been treated for years as current help users, but it is not good, even worse, the way in which this Law speaks to users of social care to older people, persons with special needs, persons with poorer education, and ultimately to Croatian citizens who speak and write mostly in Croatian. In fact, the bill of law is written by the so-called so-called meta with language or quasi scientific for wide circles unknown or poorly known language. Some foreign words are wrongly used and distort the right intention of the promoter. I don't understand why a mediator can't be a mediator, Article 86 and the presumption of conjecture, Article 177. In several articles, the word subsidiarity is used, and the subsidiary means secondary or second-rate, when subsidiarity would then mean support, help. Roman Catholics, by the term "subsidian", think of general norms, of course, of natural logical law. It is not clear to me, so I would ask the motionary representative to explain to me what subsidiarity means in the context of this Law, for example, in Article 6. Which is why article 80 must be inclusive and not, for example, Croatian included. Covered. Now a lot of people are gonna say what you're talking about? In the use of Croatian literary language in Croatian legislation more precisely in this by much even acceptable law, it is even more acceptable to use the Croatian language, which has been waiting almost two years for the government to have mercy or softness towards the opposition. And since I've already started the subject of language in the Social Care Act, I'm going to end up with Krleža's sentence on poverty. The Dalek Fritz says "I do" tends to one entirely different conjugation from the verb "I don't." In a country where only buying and renting space for state institutions is allowed to steal several hundred million kunas annually, there must not be those who sleep in parks on benches, those frozen from cold and from too many differences. We are opposed to the urgent adoption of a law that should be developed, improved and translated into Croatian. You transferred to your former government that she passed a law without debate, without consulting the base, and jumped into your mouth which this urgency confirms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5179	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5180	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, MPs and MPs, Happy Women's Day. First of all, I quote one to you and yours, to quote one detail on page 2 here it is said that funds to finance social care activities are provided mainly from the state budget, and about 96%, meaning 96% to the state budget while the other 4% are secured from income for special purposes in accordance with the law and the rules on the participation and manner of payment of users and other abstentions in the cost of accommodation outside their own family of the National Journal, etc. So the socialist can sort of agree with the dominant state of affairs. Not just the state, but let's say the dominant state. I am also convinced that it is not possible to change this overnight even though the true intensity of this bill is maximum correct in the part where it is wanted in due time as many jobs as possible in some way to leave or transfer to local self-government. I think if these jobs were to be dealt with in due course with a decentralization by local self-government so that the opportunities when we talk about social welfare might be better, I want to believe it. There was a war, too. We have almost reached the bottom of the economy, we see the recovery ourselves because of this environment around the Republic of Croatia, the opportunity in the country of heritage is indeed slow. We got there in 93rd one new territorial structure, we got a new system of local self-government, but all of us, well, not all of us don't have to agree with me the ideal could in some way form the local self-government that the 74 Constitution knew when up to 50% of the fiscal resources remained local self-government of the then municipalities. It is clear to me that this is not possible and that we will never be able to do it again, but then the municipalities were both engaged in social and development, then the state of Croatia or the SR Croatia was the fastest to develop whatever it was called. At the time she was in business or those municipalities were in tax collection, they were running a part of police, military affairs, and today, as we know, our local self-government de facto cannot even influence the behaviour of the matriarch. That's when the municipalities chose the judge. Well, that wasn't good and the independence of the Chief of Finance, the police, the people's defenses, and today here I said I couldn't even influence the behaviour of the matriarch. It is clear that today Croatia has developed significantly differently than it was in the 1990s. The war has done its part. Today, it is not the same to talk about the social and opportunities in the city of Zagreb, which because of the metropolisation has a far "best" position in the Republic of Croatia, and once I don't know Đakova, who was once and as an archbishop center was one of the possibly richest cities in these areas. It is not the same to talk today about opportunities in one Porec or in Drežnica. It is not the same to talk about opportunities in one Opatija or Imotski, it is not the same to talk about opportunities in Varazdin what I know and let's say once Sisak where this black industry almost stopped, it is not the same to speak in Zadar or Serbs, it is not the same to speak at an administrative centre like Rijeka and let's say Gareshnica. Our districts have been developed differently, our cities have been developed differently, our perspectives are different. It's not the same thing as getting money in the middle that deals with the dominant agriculture or where the dominant industry is. Where tourism is or where there is in Gorski Kotar where the wood industry is, it is not the same where the shipping industry is or where there is some larger administrative, financial, etc. Centers. What I also think, and I agree with my predecessor, is that social welfare should be invested far more in this segment. Yesterday we spoke precisely about renting for the needs of the states of this office space. The data suggests that in the last 4.5 years, only in the last 4.5 years that we got those lease plates paid between two maybe 2.5 billion kunas. If that money had invested "administrative centre" we could have gotten 7 buildings and la Hotel Leona in Rovinj or a la 7, 8 Hotel Diamond where there were gentlemen from the SDP who stayed a few days ago in Poreč. Well, it wouldn't be so luxurious, so 10 buildings like that could be built somewhere in Sava. Of course I'm not saying that money is being invested in some administrative centres but that money is being turned into a social standard for those who are going to use individual institutes proposed by this law, absolutely yes. Clearly, this is the Social Care Act, so here, among other things, it is said "to extend the reform of the social care system which is a project for the development of the social care system only one small part involves gradual decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation for which solutions are proposed in this law are a necessary prerequisite" and this should be absolutely welcomed. I agree also with these details, the good counties are today... they are poor, the county budgets are today almost fiction them should be strengthened but the powers should primarily as the intensity descend to local self-government means to our cities, municipalities. For a simple reason, because these municipalities and cities are closer to citizens, they can communicate more easily, have more money than the county, they are more accessible to the citizens and are probably more responsible because they are closer to the citizens themselves. All this understandably needs to be monitored and some fiscal decentralisation. This means that money for these new obligations should also be left to local self-government tomorrow. No, I'd say more appropriate things down there that social or social care is sort of a local community or self-government business. Clearly, she could do that if she had to have money. In the assessment of the financial resources in this bill, it is literally said, as the deputy minister said, no additional nor kuna should be provided except 1.8 million kuna for some wood. I don't think it stands and that it will certainly need at local level to implement this law to provide not a small amount of funding. It is clear that social care is one of the most important branches or segments of this community in such a divided society. It is clear and here I agree with everyone that social care is one of the most sensitive activities in this country right now. You'd even dare say that since '95. It hasn't been harder for years here. The unemployed are in the country as many as they were in 2003. The clear government in 2, 3 months as long as the government can't reverse all these trends and we need to be realistic, we can look for impossible but we still have to be firm on earth and admit that in 2, 3 months it's not possible to reverse trends. The environment of economic, social around Croatia is as difficult as it is in Croatia. Chances are I don't know how ungrateful they are, etc. All depends on whether this GDP GDP will grow by 0.8%, and if that doesn't happen then it will be extremely difficult. I also agree with my predecessor who said that no one needs compassion, just needs justice. But the society or opportunity in which Croatia today is our society is so divided that no one can ever correct it again. What was born "dirty" there in '90, '91, '92, I'm talking about these social differences, division, social property to the chosen ones just no one will fix it anymore. Society will be even more dared to speak in the years ahead of us segregate, and more will be shared, and more will be divided amongst ourselves. Returning to positions until the 1990s is clearly more impossible. The tax on property that is proposed I fear that in the context of this law it can further do or divide and create that difference. To do just as much as another wrong. Two old men, for example. They have a house, and they have no income because they can't, like, work the country. What's it gonna be? Are they rich or are they really only guarding what they have acquired or inherited by suffering? Or someone was in the 1990s the apartment he bought in '91. Or others for 10,000 marks then here in Ilica. This apartment has 100 m2 and has a modest or almost no income. Whether to help him, whether that help belongs to him, whether to deprive him of his apartment. For example, his children live in that apartment that's worth 3 grand or I don't know how many euros per square meter, they're out of work, they're parents, and their parents are in a home, etc. How do you treat them simply? There are many normal questions that will need to be discussed the next day when the bill comes on the agenda as well. Article 21 of this Legislative Proposal speaks of funds provided by the Republic of Croatia, which is said to be provided by Croatia in the state budget for the achievement of the right to financial assistance in the welfare system other than the right to assist the cost of housing, fulfils the rights to social services except in cases prescribed by this Act, the financing of the work of the Centre for Social Care, the financing of family centres, the financing of the work of social care homes, the founder of which is Croatia, the financing of expenditure for construction, construction, reconstruction of space, purchase of business facilities, expenditure for investment maintenance, emergency interventions, space equipment, and investment in information in social care institutions. Then Article 22 speaks of the means that provide units of local and regional self-government and the City of Zagreb as well as our county, meaning they are obliged to provide means to carry out social care activities in accordance with the law, in particular the regulation in accordance with the social plan, the social services network. The regional self-government units are obliged to provide funds for heating costs in their budget, then provide funds for the work of social care institutions whose founders are large cities. They are obliged to provide funds for food services in the kitchens, etc. in their budget. etc. I'm not talking about users of these funds, rights in the welfare system, which are the basics. We absolutely advocate at the club that this whole activity, it's not possible overnight, never quite clear, but the groovy part goes down to the level of local self-government, meaning cities and municipalities. But even when it's done to secure the funds so that it can work. All in all, we have received a comprehensive law, I dare say with some new principles. He'll obviously be going towards that decentralisation in years ahead of us. I said it's probably one of the most ungrateful jobs in this country right now. We got some new institutes. There will be a need for services to be introduced into business and perhaps it would be better if these deadlines for starting law enforcement were somewhat longer. Not immediately eight days after the publication of the law in the National Journal, but perhaps something longer so that all those in that segment who are or who will be obliged to implement the law can be trained. For the end of one sentence, I can see it's shining on me. Chances are ungrateful. I said business is delicate. This job can hardly be politically capitalized to understand one another. But regardless of everything in due time as much as possible and as large a segment from it lowers to local self-government. That's how much I support this bill, even though I'd prefer it if it was going to be a regular, rather than an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5181	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5182	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister of Social Welfare, esteemed colleagues, especially colleagues on this day and colleagues. The HDZ Club will not support this Act, and in particular it will not support some of the things in it starting with an emergency procedure. It is a fundamental law, and as we have heard from many predecessors, a law that is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, a law that takes care of those most sensitive, most vulnerable and most needed in our country. And that is why it is completely unclear why it insists on an emergency procedure, why it is quick to achieve something even good, if good is to be achieved, which is certainly not going to result in a improvement in a hasty procedure for those we should be concerned about. In fact, as we have heard, a law is again offered, which is said in advance clearly to be very short, that it will be a fire measure, and that we will have to have a better, more complete law, a more thorough law and a more correct law again in some way recently or not. So again, what has often been done in the past hastily brings about something that no one is happy with. At first, those who suggest him pretend to be happy. Afterwards we're all unhappy with him and then we change him for a short time. In support of what I was about to say, namely, what was said earlier was also said by the promoter and others who defended the law, in fact, were mostly critical of the former law. But they did not point out what this important new and important better would actually pass this bill. And I say again it was said immediately, and it will be a fire measure anyway, and it will be worth a short while. When we talk about it, we remind ourselves a little about how things were going with social care laws. So, in 1997, the last one was passed, let's say the last one, however you want the Social Care Act, and then he changed seven times. And precisely because seven times he changed on average every year or a year or a half he changed once he became confused, confused, and everyone was unhappy with him. And then last year, a law was passed in June. Now six months later, we say we're unhappy with him, but we need to make another law that we're not happy with as well. In the beginning, we say it's not a final solution, but we're going to make another solution very soon. Is that good and smart? I leave it to everyone else to evaluate. When it comes to the fact that there was no public debate about the past law, then it is very clear that this law has not passed any public debate under God’s grace. So he was posted on the Ministry's website for a very short time, no one was distracted here, none of the MPs had seen him before down yesterday and the day before when we got him. The suggestion of the profession and the fact that it was also criticised in the past that the profession was not involved, in this law the profession was not involved at all because it was neither familiar with it nor anyone else. So what was fundamentally predicated to the previous law here is that it is even more potent, and I dare say it did not even consider the opinion of the profession. Let's just say I know that the child's attorney has sent a whole series of serious objections that are of course not incorporated into this law. But we have several significant remarks, some of them I would say the general character, and some of them may be more specific. First of all, maybe the general character. Therefore, the first and very important thing to mention is that the EU documents on strengthening administrative decentralisation have also been proposed by domestic experts and foreign consultants when the past law worked to unite at the level of the county centres and then to carry out decentralisation from the state to the county. And that's why in the past law instead of 80 centres were founded 21 county offices with branches and in two years it was intended to decentralise from state to county. What's going on with this law? This law reintroduces 80 with the possibility and multiple centres, but it says off the record that it will be and will therefore be 100-year-old directors, 100 new administrations, means between 300 and 500 board members, and then it is claimed to be rationalisation. The rationalization that will bring a new cost of more than 3 to 5 million kunas in the system, only because of that, and we all swear that we are going to cut costs, that we want to cut costs, and this very simple act will increase costs, will increase the number of those who will participate throughout the story and it is quite certain why it is done. It's actually done to get caught at a local level somewhere between 300 and 500 board members. And let's not call it rationalization, because that's certainly not it. What's bizarre is that actually those who suggest it are on the other side, because we know who acts in the City of Zagreb, that it is centralized. There is also a centre in the City of Zagreb with 11 branches and it can work, and somewhere else, something totally opposite is proposed. It is therefore a considerable contradiction on which the same account should be taken. What should be said is that there is also a whole series of conceptually guilty things in this law. For example, in the provisions of Articles 125 and 138(3), this is not in line with the provision of Article 25 of the General Collective Agreement for officials and subsistences in public services, because for the establishment of a working relationship for all public service jobs, a public tender must be called for in order to meet the constitutional provision on equal availability of public services to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, whether it is on the trail of what is unfortunately happening without a major public reaction to my great astonishment, which is that giving up the practice that the government has introduced that members of various bodies are, in particular, the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises are choosing a contest, which means that the collapse of the public procurement system is actually a public tender system, which is already stuck to around the Brussels inspectors rather than going to the appointments, and this will only obviously fit well in. This is, for example, a clear return in 2000 when, immediately after the takeover of power, the then government led by the SDP gave that famous guideline by which all and even the least functions were to be appointed, according to the party key of course, and I remind the Kukurik coalition that the management of state-owned companies will be carried out according to the criteria of expertise. However, it is now seen by party belongings and similarities that again exist as equal criteria. Some of these solutions, as we know, have already caused public scandals when persons accused, and some even convicted of crimes, have been appointed. And that's certainly not good. Public tenders can, of course, always be played and, of course, it can be said that they can be scrutinised, but it is a principle that is more democratic and that provides the chance that functions are not reserved only for persons whose only qualification is a party's booklet and does not encourage clientelism and partytocracies that are actually encouraged by all of these. What I would say specifically about the provisions of some of this law is, let's say, that the instructions that existed in earlier services, as provided for in the former law, were abolished for all social services. Instead of the earlier solutions of administrative acts that users had to wait a long time for and the instructions are cheap, simplifying the work, it is now abolishing and returning to writing the solution again. You know what it means when a clerk needs to write a solution instead of a simple manual? That those in need will wait far longer and the process will be much more complicated. If you want to say it's because the system isn't informed, it's certainly not an excuse. I come from a health care system that has been using manuals for decades, they're beautifully written by hand, and it's certainly much simpler to write one sentence on the manual than to print out whole solutions that have to have their own form, it takes time, etc. Article 5 states that the Ministry of Social Welfare decides on the rights. I have to admit, I'm pretty freaked out about that. It's probably about the exercise of rights, so it's just wrongly written in law. I expect it to change because I live in the belief that the ministry does not decide on the rights in this country or the minister or some clerk, but that in this country, however, this House decides on the rights of those most needed, not some member of the ministry. It is stated that social concessions are abandoned and are abolished in this law. By the way someone's completely wrong of course said, I didn't react to it, but concessions were won by the basis of the competition too, no one gave them. So it's not a good thing. But what's a little bit strange for me is that it's in contradiction because in various other resolutions, it states that a private public partnership will be strengthened where concessions are just one of the models, so it doesn't make sense why we're now hitting concessions here and we're saying it's not good. In this proposal, the criteria for implementing a public tender for filling the social institutions network have been lifted, so we are going back to that old model that has always been claimed not to be good from 97. That's what I'm afraid he's about to challenge just as we've all spoken against, based on that 97-year law. In Article 30, the compensation for employment in the social care system is returned, which is completely illogical because it is the subject of employment, therefore, of employment services, rehabilitation funds or possibly of the Ministry of Labour where it is put. Article 32 provides that the social base is to be established by the Government, and the social basis is no longer linked to the budgetary base and the poverty line as it has been. Thus, the government now decides who is poor, who is not poor and who needs to get it and what is the social basis that is not good. In Article 38(3), there is a major inaccuracies which allow a wide range of interpretations of the social care centre to decide whether or not to exclude the burden or alienation of the property of the child. There's a whole series of other things that are actually inaccurate and that talk about not introducing a bigger order, but I'm just afraid of a bigger mess by adopting this law. For example, in Article 34, an exception from the old Law that has caused many doubts in the application that the director of the home social care can be a person with completed undergraduate studies, thus reducing the criterion that is certainly not good. It is not clear why the Social National Council, which previously appointed by the Parliament under the Law, is being abolished as a body that was to be recognised and to study social problems and to propose expert opinions, etc., from the profession, is now, unfortunately, in many other laws which are now under urgent procedure to push the profession out, there are no more national councils which, at the same time, have been appointed exclusively according to the professional criteria of this Parliament, were internationally and national recognised experts, if anyone is interested, none were then a member of the ruling HDZ party who worked on the guidelines of the former Social Care Act. There is therefore a whole series of remarks that we could say, and while we are already at the use of Latin and Croatian languages, I am also in favour of the Croatian language in this Act as well as the HDZ Club, which was said by the esteemed representative Vuksic, which I should also say that this Parliament should be guided by that Latin "rei public sei supremation lex" i.e. the good state be the highest law, and I am not convinced that this law fits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5183	Thank you very much. Deputy Secretary Mr. Darko Ledinsky, please be my guest. I have two notices, one is that according to the Rules of Procedure, the time has expired for a 10 minute hearing, and the second is that the President of the Mandate Commission, Mrs Gordana Sobol, called a meeting of the Committee for the day at half 1 in the hall "Stepan Radića 133". Here you go, Mr. Deputy Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5184	Thank you, Mr. President. In previous discussions, there has been a lot of mention of how this most important fundamental law should be passed to us. I'll read a passage here. At the very beginning, we express a great regret that the Ministry of Health and Social Care as a resolute ministry which is responsible for ensuring the rights and services of the social care system has decided in this way to propose a law which is essential for both the most vulnerable groups of the population of the Republic of Croatia and for employees in the social care system that this extremely important system carries with their work. I read only one small passage from a very broad opinion which on 7 April 2011 on a draft law which today was delivered by the union of employees in the activities of the social care of Croatia. Therefore, those who work in direct work who have expressed in a very broad opinion a whole series of their dissatisfactions with the way and procedure that this Law has been adopted, but here there is an indication of all the problems and remarks that have proved justified during the 8 months of application of the Law. When you were talking about how to pass us a fundamental law, the law that determines the work of the entire ministry and the whole activity and the attitude towards the users through urgency, then I must say the next time we have established the Ministry, the first thing we have met is our fundamental Law, the Social Care Act. At the same time, we called all the experts in the system and consulted them from the first day we took over the job, and very quickly it came to the conclusion that our basic law under which we are working is extremely inconclusive and very harmful to the huge consequences for the very people we're talking about all along, the most socially vulnerable, to those who need help right away, to those who need to react at the same time. We should have decided whether to act as legalists under the Law and to compromise the rights of those most socially endangered groups from children to powerless old people, or to act against the law. We have also made a professional and political decision to ensure, in the shortest possible time, that our basic law applies to people, those of which we are always talking about be enforceable law, and that it is a law that does not endanger their rights but that it is a law that enables people who need help today so that we can help them immediately and not call upon the letter of the Law and that we are not in a position to help them. There are a whole series of details that should be said but this is crucial, one of the basic reasons why the Law that is before us, which is now valid is not actually enforceable, consists of that there is no such thing as what you were talking about any quality databases, or database. It is often said that people in luxury cars come for social aid, that it is possible. What they're going to say as a moderate optimist is that out of 10 social kunas at least 3 kunas, they don't go to the right place but go to those who are the most resourceful, the most nimble, the most capable because there's no database and there's no unique database. It is particularly regrettable that this data collection has been done over the past 5 years in the project to develop and inform the social care system, that 40 million kuna has been spent for this project only for part of the information, the colleague has talked about all this, and that the result that we found was the demo version after 5 years and after 40 million kuna and that there is no database. What we have to do is because these groups of people, these socially most endangered people, don't have time to wait. We had to do everything, and we worked from day one every day to reach them as soon as possible a law that would not endanger them who would be expendable. What we need to do must create a database of data on all people and in order to make more efficient, fairer and fairer use of social kunas and not get by resourcefulness and nimbleness because often the most socially vulnerable are not resourceful, are not the ones who know how to reach different. So to those most in need of the most difficult to achieve these kunas, we must enable them to do so. And this, yes, the law we are proposing is our firm decision to ensure in this year that we know exactly which aid should go to, preferably, no social kuna goes to the wrong place in the most resourceful or most reputable, creating such databases, and that this year for the first time since 2002, 2003, when a partially decentralised social care system is going through homes for elderly and powerless persons who are today decentralised 46 in the Republic of Croatia and that this model is showing good even though it is not a complete decentralisation because that decentralisation should be continued and that it should be applied exactly the model of local social planning to the nearest user because it is fastest for the user and ultimately the most just for the user because it is much better known from the perspective of the municipality or the city than from the perspective of the metropolis, Zagreb or ministry. And what we want to do is make this law a prerequisite for true decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5185	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5186	I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption. I didn't say the previous law wasn't a debate. Unfortunately, some of the other colleagues who took it as an argument have said that. That's not true. It was precisely this proof that a months-long debate was being held about the previous law that some had disputed. However, I would just like to say one more thing that has fallen into my eyes and I think it should change anyway, the claim in Article 40 that it is completely incompetent to follow this law is considered a person over 65 years of age. I pray that some in this Sally picture the same thing over it, and many in this country will imagine themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5187	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Zastava Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5188	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the adoption of a new Social Care Act. In fact, we believe that the proposal for this law has, in very important points, amended certain provisions which in most cases were practically ineligible and very harmful. And that's actually the support of all of our urgency changes to this law. Because if something does not work for our users, for our citizens on the ground and the law is in force, then it is certainly clear that it must be changed urgently and legally regulated. And I think the debate on whether or not it's necessary to change something that makes damage and where it's obvious that it seems to be a damage to our citizens, I think it's unnecessarily relevant to discuss it here. Of course, when it comes to changing the law in that section relating to the institutions or former social care centres where in reality nothing was done in these 7, 8 months except for changing the tables on the institutions and taking down tables at centres and making formal technical conditions for functioning, and in reality the services for the users did not work in the way that they would be correct, which is to be close to the users and to solve the spot problems of the users. It is true that it was a big debate that preceded the adoption of the law and it is also true that local and regional self-government was very actively involved in the debate on the adoption of the current law. Both local and regional self-government made a series of remarks and warned of a whole series of provisions of that law which would cause damage, or which would be introduced into the system instead of order of riots, and in fact left under that law to the directors of the Institute that, by their major or minor consent or failure to comply with that law, they would operate on the ground they covered or which they covered. This confusion that has occurred is now present and the HNS welcomes the provisions of the laws that are heading towards returning certain things to those positions that we had before the current law was passed. Of course, as one transitional solution because we expect the CNS to expect a more comprehensive debate on the Social Care Act in the future, one deep analysis especially in light of the fact that we are all in the economic recession and that the resources for these needs are unfortunately limited, and it is very realistic to expect that they will be even more limited than they are today. When the law was passed almost a year ago, we all got involved in the debate. At that time, greater decentralisation of powers and resources was expected, convergence of services to users. We made a whole series of demands, warned that law enforcement would lead to dysfunctional, harmful functioning. The quality of functioning has indeed been left at the mercy and impassionation of the ability of professional staff on the ground, not a systematic solution to the problem. Someone here mentioned Zagreb and the Centre for Social Care in Zagreb. I will always warn from this pay phone and HNS will always warn of the fact that, while respecting that Zagreb is indeed a large centre and a large city and the only one in Croatia cannot be painted in any way on the whole of Croatia. Croatia is diverse. Our coastal districts have islands, mountain-mounted areas, inaccessible spaces. Therefore, it is not possible to function equally, i.e. the laws should be adapted to all Croatia and to the specialities of the whole of Croatia and not only Zagreb. Of course, the Centre for Social Care with branches can operate in Zagreb, but I ask you how it works in the Primorje-Goran County where the centre is in Rijeka, and then you have a Chabar that is closer to Zagreb than Rijeka and one Mali Lošinj, which is 2 or 3 hours drive or transport to the centre, or to Rijeka. So it is not possible to paint Zagreb on the whole of Croatia, and often, unfortunately, in the proposals of our laws, we did it and we did it to the harm of our citizens. Here's me in HNS, I say, we think that this is actually a transitional period that will introduce order immediately and that will give time for a system that has not been functional to become functional until the law is passed that would see important shifts, which, of course, require a wider public and professional debate. As far as the same discussion on why to change a law that was passed less than a year ago, a good friend of mine, otherwise a prominent politician and a businessman, often told me about Hope, we have often introduced riots and increased costs with each new reform and new laws, and none of which unfortunately benefited. Well, something similar happened to us, unfortunately, with this law. I have to commend and quite specifically one promotion that happened in this Law, which is that we are that nonsensus about the number of capacities placed within one home for older and powerless persons essentially removed from the law and that was really something we were warning about. Also from regional and local self-government since we have already developed projects to build homes for old and powerless where several thousand accommodation facilities are missing in Croatia today. And with that provision where projects have already been made for 200, 300 accommodation units per facility. In Croatia, there are completed projects ready for a public-private partnership that the provisions of the law are put into effect in an inability to implement them. I think that's good, and I think that in part of social care, we should also focus on starting to think economically and start investing in social care capacities that are going to be profitable on the market today because they can be. The needs are high and the odds are high. As regards the meaning of the CNS, in any case, the social care system should be fully considered in particular under the conditions of the economic recession. And I believe that the ministry headed by Deputy Prime Minister Milanko Opačić, Mrs Opačić, will, as soon as possible, draft a law that will put the user at the centre of attention in all segments, not cost-effective bureaucratic systems that resist any change of themselves, rather than the work to be devoted to. So the user and the user who's in real need. On more than one occasion, this pay phone talked about the OIB. Let's finally give this OIB to apply, finally see who has the right, who doesn't have the right to social assistance in this country, create a fair society. We can and have conditions for that, and why it hasn't been done so far, I don't think it's a topic today, and it wouldn't be good if we were arguing about why something hasn't been done so far. I believe that the ministry, our new ministry will do so and that we will soon have a chance to discuss a new law that will make a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5189	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague has made one inaccuracies. Well, she said everything and it's just hard to make things right, and I don't have the right to reply when a colleague was talking on behalf of the club. The passing of this law has done damage to our citizens. That's not true. I wish you could name me at least one right of citizens who have been threatened by the adoption of this law which is not. But the fact is that reducing decentralised resources and, among other things, social care, and so much you stand for in all your declarations of decentralisation are about to reduce some of our citizens' rights. This can be read between the ranks of this Law. And he was right to be a respected deputy minister when he said it was made except for a professional and political decision to go to change this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5191	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5192	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A little less than 10 months ago we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament about today's still valid Social Care Act. At that time, numerous criticisms were heard, mostly justified, and the solution passed by the law so far by abolishing the legal personality of welfare centres and the establishment of a branch at the county level was not good, it is not disputed. Because no centralization is good, and neither is this one. In addition to these remarks, the HDSSB also had a number of other comments, including those relating to the so-called ‘. decentralisation of commitments to units of regional self-government without decentralisation of funds to implement those same obligations. In addition to our remarks in the debate at the time, there were numerous criticisms coming from the ranks of the opposition, and today the ruling SDP. 10 months ago, on 12 May last year, the most frequently mentioned remarks were about problems with the lack of decentralisation of funds and the fact that the law was passed without a prior quality and extensive public debate and I must admit I was not surprised by the words of support from Mrs Romana Jerkovic on behalf of the SDP club, but I remained surprised at how easily she went over her own words. It is indeed said in the people to jump into my own mouth because I will quote Mrs. Jerkovic's SDP MPs, as of May 12th last year when in her debate and objecting to the HDZ proposal, she pointed out among other things, and I quote: "First, you wanted to push through the law in an urgent procedure, but then you gave up on the public. Secondly, you haven't spent as often as you say a quality and extensive public debate, and the proof that this is the case is the fact that you have no consensus, that you have no consensus with anyone with the profession or with politics or with civil society associations. For seven years, we have been waiting for you to present to us the Strategy for the Development of Social Care and wait for social care to begin to change from the foundation. This system is now firing at seams and the way it is, so slow and inefficient and bureaucratized, almost better if we don't have it. The only thing that's worth it is the people we've brought to the limits of endurance and the fact that we need a whole new concept, a whole new system of efficient, modern and flexible that is able to answer the needs of citizens spotlessly.", finished quote. This is what it looks like when a bill is observed in the eyes of opposition, and what happens when opposition becomes power? Nothing important or anything that is of great benefit to the citizens whose name they rule on. In the meantime, the opposition begins to act as a government until then, to make the same mistakes it has made and against which it has fought. And that's why what's happening to you right now is happening, and according to the said people's saying, the new government is jumping into its own mouth. So here's the good part with this bill. The government has changed, but not behavior, and it's used for citizens small or no of either government. What is the problem with this bill as it was with the one we're changing today? Almost the same. You objected to the urgency of the procedure, and now you're making the same mistake. And then, even if they're under public pressure, as you said, there were two readings. Secondly, as a major, huge flaw in the proposal at the time, you pointed out the absence of quotes: "one quality and extensive public debate and lack of consensus with anyone, with no profession, no politics, no civil society associations." And where is today before this bill, I quote: "quality and extensive public debate"? Where is the consensus today, both with the profession and with politics and with civil society associations? You objected that the public debate was not allowed and that the law, I quote, "at the local level delivered on Thursday and that the obvious was requested on Monday." And what is different about this issue today, your bill of law? The local level and the base, as you can tell, are consulted through the so-called so-called. Working groups, I also checked with us, about a month ago with a time limit of 7 to 10 days. Is this a quality and extensive public debate your way? Speaking of the necessity of creating the first strategy for the development of social care as a prerequisite for changing social care from the foundation, you pointed out that the current system, so the one that was changed 10 months ago by the law that we are changing again today, was a system that I again quote: "shoots at seams and as it is, therefore slow and ineffective, bureaucratised, almost better in ruins that we don't even have it." And in the light of today's bill of law, more specifically in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be regulated by the law on page 5, I am literally quoting again: "This legislative proposal governing the implementation of the social care activity is based mainly on the same provisions on which the system has been regulated until the adoption of this current law." I don't know what to say to this. Ten months ago, you said that the system of social care that existed until then, again, I quote: "shoot at seams and the way it was, so slow, inefficient and bureaucratic, in ruins almost better if we didn't even have it and that we need a brand-new concept and a whole new system of efficient, modern and flexible that is able to answer the needs of citizens spotably.", finished quote. And now as the basis of this new law that regulates social care activities as a replacement for today's law that changed this slow and inefficient, bureaucratized system from 10 months ago, you list the same specifics on which this same slow, inefficient and bureaucratised system was regulated. So, the final proposal of this present law is actually an old law from 1997 to 2007, the same one that you of the SDP called a slow, inefficient and bureaucratic system 10 months ago. It's just a man can't believe it. Among those who were particularly critical in the debate during the adoption of today's current law, which we are changing with today's proposal is today's Minister of Social Policy and Youth and Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić. And today her ministry is proposing a new Social Care Act. And it's very interesting to compare that ten months ago were the subject of criticism by today's minister who, on behalf of the new government, is proposing today's bill of law. I'll give you a few examples. Speaking on behalf of the Club of Representatives on 12 May 2011, Ms Opačić, among other things, said: "As far as decentralisation is concerned, there is no decentralisation here. This is the third time you've moved a year, or time to implement decentralisation, and unfortunately in this area, the good part of the business will also depend on political will because it wasn't about real decentralisation, which is how you lower your powers so you lower your permanent finances. It's like this every year when a political-willed budget decides who gets some funding, and who doesn't just don't do it primarily for the citizens.", finished quote. And that's what Mrs. Secretary said 10 months ago, and that's exactly right. But the same is true, unfortunately, that from now on, you too have made the same mistake with the ruling majority of these laws today. If HDZ's rule then for the third time moved time for real decentralisation not only of obligation but also of funds now the new SDP or Kukurik authorities have done so the fourth time. Because you yourself on page 5 of this law's argument that even this time there is not exactly the most important part of decentralisation, the one that involves decentralisation of funds. And I quote to you what you wrote in this bill on that page: "The reason for the adoption of the new Social Care Act is based on the need to establish an effective system that will lead to the introduction of decentralisation including fiscal decentralisation." And whether the new ruling majority will continue to decide now on the political will of the new ruling majority on who will receive the funds and who will not get out of the budget very soon will be seen. But as it goes, we're afraid everything's going to be the same. Sometimes in HDZ's likeness, and now I think it's SDP or corn. If we had reason for this fear, I would remind you of several examples of which we recently pointed out on behalf of the HDSSB Club in the adoption of the State budget for this year, then you said there will be no discrimination on any basis and especially not on a political basis. And do you remember the reconstruction and construction of drain systems in Slavonia and Baranja reduced funds by 6 million kuna, and by chance or not in Sisak Moslavina County increased by 420% and 600, respectively, in Varazdinska by more than 7 million kuna or 200%. There's no political discrimination here. I don't know what to call it. As a contribution to the claim that there is no discrimination on any of the criteria and, in particular, not politically, it is also instructed to look at the division of assistance to local and regional self-government units in the State budget. We do not understand why this division in the state budget, for example, for Vukovar-Srijem County, reduced funds by as much as 30%, more than 2 million kuna, while at the same time for the County of Međimurje increased by 138%, for Sisak-Moslavina 155% and for the Varazdin County 162.2% of the funds compared to last year. And said Minister Opačić at the end of her debate 10 months ago: "In the end, I will just say on behalf of the SDP Club we will not support this law in any other reading, because we simply believe that this law should start over and not so that consultants and writers of the law are people from Great Britain, but that they are our people who work in Croatia and who work with our citizens know the problems of their profession but also the needs of our citizens." That sounded nice, but unfortunately, it's just in words. It is true, though, that consultants and writers of this Law were not the people of the UK this time, but unfortunately it was not what you said, our people who work with our citizens, know the problems of both their professions and the needs of our citizens, because that way you would not repeat the mistake you most pointed out and that is the lack of quality and extensive public debate. I have one more question to ask. Ten months ago, we all agreed that in the text of today's current Law that this bill was changing was also something good. This primarily referred to erasing the term "psychic patient" which was replaced by the term "disabilities person". On that particular day, SDP representative Tatjana Šmac-Bonačić spoke about it, but I do not understand why again in this proposal the term "child with disabilities or a mentally ill child" is used in the second page of the reasoning of this Act. In addition to these remarks, I will now present on behalf of the Club and several concrete remarks on the specific articles of this Bill. In Article 30(2), the words "or regional regional units" should be deleted, as paragraph 1 of the same article refers to the rights laid down in the law and neither of those rights is determined by the regional self-government unit, but by the social care centres and local self-government units. Furthermore, Article 51 of the Law lays down the right to settle housing costs refers to the possibility of using that right if, with the rest of the apartment used does not exceed 35 squares of useful area, or for persons with 42 squares disability, increased by 10 squares for each further person, etc. The question arises, what will happen to nursing households especially in rural areas that have larger houses or apartments, and they have no opportunity to sell them and replace them for less or possibly hired, in which case they cannot exercise the right to help with maintenance and, consequently, no aid for wood heating costs. In Article 120(4), the words "the administrative body responsible for social care in the county" shall be replaced by the words "regional self-government unit" in accordance with paragraphs 12 and 13 of that Article 120, as it is a matter of proposing administrative councils in social care centres. In Article 134(4) behind the word "the Republic of Croatia" should add the words "the Unit of the Regional Self-Government" and delete the words "the Centre for Social Care" and add the words "Home of Social Care" because you are talking about a different institution and you have left it wrong. There's still a whole series of these examples, and I'm going to name another one. In Article 165(2), the words "and the Ministry of Social Welfare Affairs" should be added behind the word "supervised activity" because it is to be reported in case of temporary suspension of activity by natural persons. In Article 179(3) beyond the word "social care", the word "in the previous opinion of the unit of regional and regional self-government" should also be added, as it refers to the development of a social care and social planning network and it is necessary in particular to bear in mind that the counties are developing a social plan that also provides for a social service network. Finally, the best policy of social care is that policy that contributes to the number of those whose social care is needed to be less and not more. Unfortunately, the government's first moves are not going that way, on the contrary. Before the election, you promised to increase people's standards of living and you gave us higher VAT, wilder fuel prices, and daily gatherings of everything they could collect, and without which they could hardly live. You've spoken and promised to increase employment, and you're announcing the layoffs of thousands of workers. You promised to throw the politicians and politicians out of the boards and boards of directors and compete to enlist similar party personnel in whatever society you reach. You promised a thorough reform of the welfare system, and here's what we have today. You promised to take special care of Slavonia and in the budget you cut us down just as much as HDZ's government and worse in terms of agriculture. It is common democratic practice for every new government to give 100 days of peace to show what they know and can do, we in the HDSSB are very careful to count the days. Today is 77 days, but we have to say that behind these 77 days, there are more and more unfulfilled promises and more disappointments. You promise one thing, and the other you do. Often, he does not know what the right hand is doing and it would be good to agree with you once and start doing what all Croatian citizens rightly expect from you. Start pulling us out of the crisis and keeping the days of promises based on the power you've taken over. Because the citizens were approached by that HDZ guarantee card, and they don't need another disappointment in the form of a card called Plan 21. Unless the comments we have made and the proposals to resolve them are accepted by quoting these articles, the Advocacy Club will not accept such a proposal for a social care law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5193	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic is correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5194	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric accused me of thinking one thing in June 2011 and thinking something completely different today. So I have to correct his allegations, it's absolutely incorrect, I'm everything I said at the time in the debate on social welfare law, I've repeated today. If he'd been there, he'd have heard it. So I still think that the welfare system is bureaucratized, inefficient, inefficient, however, this Law has an intensities which it obviously did not understand, and that is to return to the express request of the director of the Institute what it once was. So the minister couldn't make a reform in 2 months but could do it to pass a new law. The fellow reform is a very extensive thing, it is yet to follow, and when it comes there will be public debates and certainly debates in two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5195	Mr. Buric, if you'll excuse me just a little bit, I'm warning you in advance, you've lifted a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I already know in advance that it will not be like that, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5196	Okay, and I can get my wallet out in advance and... to tell you why the Rules of Procedure got hurt. And I can tell you right now there's no money that's gonna stop me from paying to speak in the House what I need to say right now. Injury to the Rules of Procedure under Articles 209 and 213 because you told Madam Representatives that I was here by accident to listen then. I was very good at having a phonogram of all the debates of the representatives, not only of the SDP but also of the HDZ from that session. It wasn't in June, I don't know if you remember the 12th of May was a debate. The law came into force on 2 June 2011, and on 12 May we held a debate on the second reading on the final proposal, and on 7 April, if you are interested in the 2011 debate on first reading. And be sure that even in that first reading there were many reasons why I could quote you. It was enough for me to quote you now. I expected that you might be the one to speak for the club and that you would change something compared to what you said then, unfortunately you haven't changed anything and that's why I'm disappointed, not surprised but disappointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5197	You shouldn't have taken out your wallet, but I'll tell you now. So I was right you had no right to lift this tile because you had nothing to prove that the Rules of Procedure was injured. And let us learn once while the correction of the incorrect assumption is that it is a one-way communication suffered by both the Prime Minister and the Minister and all of our colleagues, because then you have nothing to report after that, if indeed no injured Rules of Procedure. And you, Mr. MP Buric, and not just you, but some individuals from your party are using it as an opportunity to react there when they cannot react. We will have a chance when we propose a Rules of Procedure, when the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure to say what you think about it. So please don't do this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5198	...to say and whether it was a correction to the incorrect allegations of what Mrs. Prosecution said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5199	Please don't have a word now. Here you are now violating Article 213, 214 Thank you very much. [[All right, here we go.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, the representative of Mrs Višnja Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5200	Thank you very much. Honorable President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to say that the HSU Club will support this law and I would like to say here at the very beginning that it is us, and to me, especially who I am, and I've been in the profession for over 40 years, clearly understand why this law had to go by emergency procedure. And I'm commending the department here because it just realized as soon as it came that the existing law was not applicable, and you'll hear why. And precisely because reforms would happen3e and all of this has to be carried out by emergency procedure right now, this bill of law so that the system can function. Therefore, the current law did not ensure the implementation of the effective impact of social care development projects resulting from the cooperation of the RES and the World Bank in response to the need for systematic changes in this area that the welfare system is in line with the criteria and standards in force in the EU countries. The impact of the social care development project is focused on more efficient and accessible services to citizens, more systematic incentives and financial support, the action of NGOs, the better focus of cash compensation, while respecting the specificities of certain areas due to customs, lifestyles in these areas and the needs and interests of users, the quality of provision of social services to the institution and outside the institution. The purpose is therefore to make the welfare system more transparent and to make the public more informed. The timely delivery of data on users and rights ensures systematic monitoring and analysis of needs and creating a basis for strategic planning and reducing the risk of fraud. This results in financial savings resulting from improvements in the objective of compensation, so it is urgent to complete system information and to introduce databases. So far, there have been no databases, tax collectors have been registered in the centres of institutions each in their own way, we have not been networked, so it is not really the users' fault that they were able to achieve in different places of rights, and that it is not one even in the city of Zagreb that could not be known, let alone at the level of the whole of Croatia. And as far as this database is concerned, I want to point out the same thing, and I know that this is also the relevant ministry that has taken into account and will take into account, it is a very sensitive area that users are, therefore, the most sensitive area is the most vulnerable and sensitive areas, and I therefore mention special data protection in accordance with the Data Protection Act. Therefore, the abolition of the instructions in force by this now law will simplify the process of exercise of rights and the introduction of an information system will reduce administration and professional workers will spend more time working directly with the user and the family. Developing a greater range of services at local level, involving NGOs and humanitarian organisations and individuals in providing services will ensure a better solution to the problem of citizens and the more efficient operation of system professionals. The wider reform of social care which is a project for the development of the social care system is only one small part involving gradual decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation, for which the proposed solutions in this law were a necessary prerequisite. The establishment of a social care office at County level was prescribed by the current Social Care Act, which entered into force on 2 June 2011, led to the centralisation of the system even though the planned objectives of the system reform were to go towards gradual decentralisation. This centralisation of the system today requires additional financial resources to combine data exchange operations, report information, centralises the system in terms of human resources management, which pleases the service that should be in the function of citizens, distances the service that must be in the role of citizens in the local community where users of the rights of services from the social care system live. Such a structure is further contrary to the principles of availability of information and services by users, which are precisely listed in the content of the law as an advantage. It is also contrary to the long-term goals of the Republic of Croatia set out in strategic documents aimed at the gradual decentralisation of public services and financial resources. During the short application of this Act, additional problems have also been identified which are one of the essential reasons for the adoption of the new law, and are primarily related to the organisation of the work of the Department of Social Care and Branches. The problems in operation are also due to the uneven size of the county area and population. I'd just like to get to know a little bit more in here what this law now looks like on the ground. At this point, the current law introduces 20, introducing 21 new institutions of social care. These are institutions that have a total of 84 branches which are completely contrary to the principle of decentralisation. It looks like this today in practice. Thus, the existing Law of the Department of Social Care is set up in major cities which are also the headquarters of the county for which users are forced to travel in order to exercise their social welfare rights, and which many cannot realise. The difficulties are especially with people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, old and powerless persons. So in practice I'm going to even simplify what it looks like now concrete cooperation between newly established branches and institutions has proved to be really very bad even catastrophic. Therefore, all decisions of the branches relating to monetary payments must now be delivered physically to the office at the signing of the Director, and then the head of that area centre in certain cases would become a courier and he would be the one carrying and delivering mail. This is what experts in the institutions of the current institutions do. The branches are no longer in possession of independent financial resources for expenditure but must all be approved by the Office. However, the Institute itself does not have the quality of the tool that would now carry out these calculations. I'm talking about the institution, the facility. So, and then it happens that branch offices in the county that cover certain areas of cities and surrounding settlements can't even do field tours without an official vehicle because they are now located near the office. Therefore, you cannot go on the ground, and the user is far more difficult to reach and the user is far more difficult to come by to achieve his basic rights and we are talking about the hardest and most vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So with the existing structure, this is just an example of what it looks like right now. The existing body, in accordance with the established competences of the Social Care Centre branch and the Department of Social Care, has now become more accessible and significantly more expensive to users. In most institutions, there are still no preconditions for payment of cash fees, dislocated branches, all of what I've just said, communication impossible. It is also difficult to operate regularly with regard to material costs. I have also shown, for example, that the application of the applicable law lacked the continuity of systemic action in order to further implement the project of the development of the social care system, given that, instead of decentralisation, there has now been concrete centralisation through these institutions, and public services have become ineffective and inaccessible to citizens. The law also lacked the objective of creating a new, more rational and more effective social care system aimed at socially vulnerable citizens and socially sensitive groups in line with the criteria and standards in force in the European Union countries. As funding for social care activities is provided mainly from the state budget, it is also important to take care of both the amount and the purpose of spending on the state budget provided for that purpose. The application of the law in practice assumes its implementation in a way that will allow for a high or higher quality of service that is acceptable to users of social care services, as well as experts who apply this law in their daily work, shall apply the law to be implemented. The reason for the adoption of the new Social Care Act is also based on the need to establish an effective system which will be best applicable, fair and accessible to the user, with individualised needs of the users until decentralisation is introduced. This legislative proposal governing the activities of social care is based mainly on the same provisions on which the system has been regulated to today's applicable law, with significant improvements in respect of new knowledge and methods of working with the user. This legislative proposal better regulates principles in the welfare system. In a clearer way, the rights of users and the procedure for recognising them include the right to social services which are one of the essential factors for improving the quality of life. Moreover, the procedures for the provision of services have reorganised the way in which administrative and inspection supervision is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the State Administration System Act. The proposed law is better equipped with social services, which is very important for social service providers to now be selected on the basis of a public tender for filling the social services network, rather than through concessions as provided for by this applicable law. The licensing process is also prescribed by the applicable law as a condition for the start of the service provider's work and its introduction will be related to the completion of the introduction of the social service quality standard in the social care activity. The provisions of the new Social Care Act therefore create the preconditions for further reforming social care as an important part of the public sector, and the proposed law will ensure the minimum standard of living of the most vulnerable part of the population, as well as the appropriate meeting of the personal family needs of socially sensitive groups, with particular emphasis on the European Union guidelines on social inclusion. So, what I have stated now, I will repeat that the Croatian Party Retirement Party Club will support this draft of the law by an urgent procedure, expecting that the new law that will be drawn up will be safe and confident that it will pass exactly this everything that we have talked about now, that it will have the opportunity to do so because this new proposal has not now had the opportunity and that in this law, all of us here will be satisfied. But it doesn't matter that we are satisfied but that our customers will now and future have more available social care, a better quality system and exactly the right, the assurance of the right to which, insurance of what they are entitled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5201	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5202	So I would correct an incorrect allegation, or impression that this Law would actually solve the problem of non-existent files, i.e. information. No, it won't, because he doesn't really talk about it at all. Of course information is necessary, but this law has nothing to do with it. With the implementation of better social care and what I fully agree with the honourable representative who said that the means to ensure it were primarily provided by the state budget had to be provided with more money in the budget. And unfortunately, most have just voted 50 million kunas less budgets for this year. Therefore, there is nothing to do with informing the law, but it has to do with money that will be less necessary this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5203	You see, Mr. Buric, it was now the same correction to the incorrect assumption that she could not react to the lady who spoke on behalf of the club. Thank you. ... I say we'll have a chance to talk about it when it's not taken out of context, this was a classic extraction from context, a classic extraction from context. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First word has Mrs. Representative Vanja Posavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5204	I thank the Honorable President, Deputy and other representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Social care is of paramount importance, and because certain categories of inhabitants provide the necessary protection, individuals who, due to socio-economic conditions or health conditions, cannot therefore meet the basic needs of life, children and adults with disabilities, but also children without parents or adequate parental care. But unfortunately, I have to say from my own experience because working at school every day I was actually familiar with it, the system doesn't work properly. Local self - administration approached some of the problems that seemed to them to be the best or the easiest for them. The consequence of today is that certain national-level rights overlap, that the system, which comes from the field, inefficient, unregulated, is not known when done, are not applied equally, are the people who are experts in this area actually cannot and are not in a position to do business in the best possible way. The law applicable from 2 June 2011 is a law which clearly failed to do anything in practice. The experts didn't ask, and that's what I'm behind. No state analysis has been conducted and no efficacy has actually been conducted. This law instead of decentralisation gave us heavy centralization. Social services in the counties and the City of Zagreb with numerous branches were established. The current law therefore introduced 21 new institutions and these institutions were established in major cities, and users were forced to travel to achieve their social welfare rights. I wonder how one person with disabilities or a person who doesn't have enough financial resources will travel 10, 20, 30 km in order to get the help he needs? That's what I'm saying because that's what we've been saying, and in schools, we've met with it every day. So, parents who actually need help for the child and for themselves, so they're told in the office, so look if you have such a big will and you need money so much, so what's 18 kilometers for you? Well, get on with it. It can't be anymore! This law will avoid it. I also have to say that some of them are deluded like sheriffs. Because unfortunately this law, the old law, allows them. Everything signed by the director of the office, everything must be physically brought to him, branches do not have an independent means of money for expenditure, and therefore such a law has made it significantly difficult and bureaucratises the terms of professional work. It is therefore necessary and it is necessary to adopt a new Social Care Act in order to preserve the standards of professional work and the rights of users, but something else will be achieved by this law – humanity and genuine concern for users. It will no longer be possible for a person who needs help to respond to such inappropriate answers. It will also not be possible for experts and workers themselves in individual institutions to work above human forces, and in certain institutions they have extra time. Because it's finally going to be arranged, too. Institute workers also have to be equal, not that they do more, they do less, and they don't really know how to apply. The new law enables high quality services that will be acceptable to users of social care services, but also to enable professionals to implement laws on a daily basis, not to do as anyone remembers or thinks. By decentralisation and evening the rules, so that they are equally applied and that everyone has equal chances and that we introduce humanity into social care, that each user has the right and the ability to use it, but really use it, only then can we say that we have a social state that cares for those who need help. That's exactly what this law is going to lead to. And I personally very much support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5205	Thank you. We have a single replica on this exhibit of yours. Dear Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think it's more correct to use the replica institute, and I'll still use my glasses. You said rightly that a whole new concept was needed. That's what you were talking about on behalf of the SDP club and on the 12th of May when we passed this law. I'm going to quote you, so "you're practically public debate as much as you claim you didn't even allow it because your waist obviously has nothing to say. You are, and that's a fact because we don't get any information from that profession, so we hear that the law was delivered at the local level on Thursday, you asked for an indication on Friday, etc." You also talked about what a 31m-euro loan was spent on and that gift from Sweden million and 600,000 euros. And with today's bill of law, not that there is no new concept, but on page 5 of the new law, I quote: "you are returning us in time from 15 years ago to 1997", because it literally writes: "this legislative proposal that regulates the pursuit of social care activities is based mainly on the same rules on which the system was being regulated until the current law of this day is passed, and there are important improvements in respect of new knowledge and methods in working with the user." What new methods? You said that, on the basis of the request of the Director of the Centre from the field, an amendment to this law has been made. So then I'll remind you of another quote from your debate when you opposed the HDZ bill. It is said then "you've had time for over seven years, we've been waiting for social care reform, for seven years we've been waiting for you to present to us a strategy for the development of social care, and then we wait for social care to begin to change from the foundation." So, the order of things you either got confused like the HDZ. First the strategy and then the amendment of the law. Don't come out and then we'll change the law again in 10 days or 3 months or 6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5207	It is certainly more correct to use the Replica Institute because it has now made it possible for the distinguished representative Vanji Posavac to respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5208	Thank you. I just have to admit it's not clear to me, and I've been listening very carefully to my colleague whether you're replicating to me or to everyone else on behalf of the club, because you've been replicating something that I haven't even spoken to in this debate. And I will also allow, I have listened to you well, and I must also say, this law is comprehensive and it is the first step in reform and that reform will continue. Reform is impossible in 24 hours but all the assumptions in this Act are that this reform is successful and that ultimately social care is being implemented towards users as it should be if we want to be a social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5209	We continue with an individual debate, a distinguished representative named Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, from the discussions we've discussed so far, I think we're aware that this is a sensitive area, a very important area of social care. And as we can see, after nine months, we've been passing a new Social Care Act, and it can be interpreted in a way that came new, and now it wants to change something, or in a variety of ways. However, let us remember the conditions under which the law was passed in 2011 and remember that there were many criticisms from the profession, professional and other public. Of course, experts from direct contact with users, and the Advocates and Advocates, etc. Unfortunately, however, these remarks were not adopted but it was seen that during this period, while the Law was in force, these observations were well founded because they were actually insurmountable obstacles that this Law could be implemented at all. For example, some newspapers that have been implemented in the current Law have already been declared to have been delayed, and on the other hand some have been subject to a number of sublaws, so we have some 16 regulations that should have been passed in order to enforce the law at all, therefore, it appears that its inapplicability has been highlighted. Another problem has to be identified that is the problem of the executioner, the staff in the centres, the problem of the number because by the existing number simply this Law was not enforceable. And that is why it is unfair and we cannot expect social care experts to actually be obliged to implement the law because we are legalists, so we should expect it from them, and on the other hand we are aware of the situation that cannot be implemented and we cannot expect responsibility for this situation from them. Therefore, the need to actually adapt the law to the existing situation, or what can be done, is necessarily imposed, and it is said that there should be a new law, a law for a transitional period, we can call it fire-fighting why not. Because we are aware of the size of the problem and the ministry and the government was aware of the size of the problem, the size of the trombone. Which is not the pompousness to invest 40 million kunas in information without her being wrong. Isn't it the trombone that the data collection has been working for 5 years without being made, of course it was a need for change. And that is why I say that the first analysis of the existing state of affairs is to be made, and then the number, human resources, which are the needs of citizens, or the means of money available. Only then can a new law be made to regulate social care, and we are also aware from the discussion today to see the problem that exists, and all of us parliamentary representatives are getting from the field and the emails, various remarks, various suggestions of all the problems that are in place. So when we look at this period from the adoption of the old law to today, we can say that it is mostly about organisational changes, however, they have very negatively reflected in the quality of professional work and the exercise of user rights. So I'm talking about a law that introduced 21 new institutions of social care. However, it would have been good if there hadn’t been bad cooperation between these very branches and the institutions. There have been various examples today and poor cooperation, so you can see that representatives of the branch centres have to physically deliver on the signatures of the directors of the office, then branches no longer have their own funds, everything is done in the offices. We heard an example from Metković, specifically from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, from Metkovic should travel to Dubrovnik. I'll also mention the distance of Korčula... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5211	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5212	These are all such examples that talk about the distance between the centres and branches which, of course, leads to a bad relationship, and the end-user is always suspended in such cases. NOT to speak for approved funeral expenses and one-time assistance users must personally come to the office to take the money. He also has to travel ten kilometers. And something else in the county, I mentioned mine, they, by their jurisdiction, cover not only islands, but also mountain-mounted areas that are very badly connected by public transport, which again negatively affects the end-user. It can therefore be said that the final direct application of the Social Care Act in practice shows that the law has significantly bureaucratised the terms of professional work. That is why it was necessary to regulate this system as quickly as possible in a simpler way by adopting a new Social Care Act in order to actually preserve the early achievement of the standard of professional work and the rights of users and from there to begin. But we still have to remember when I spoke before about the social care center staff, let's not forget that they work over 146 functions. Our user end-user should be given a system in which the application will be made as simple and faster as possible and of course the new Social Care Act should always be the crown reform of the system, not the way it is now. Therefore, I accept this proposal from my respected colleagues. We have to accept it all so that no greater damage can be done because the law so far has done a lot of damage. The emergency procedure is also called a fire measure, and the law will change several times as it has been announced precisely because of the importance of this system. Hope, of course, is also given by a new ministry that has been established because it will come closer to the social system. And someone mentioned today that it was a political decision. Yes, gentlemen, a political decision but out of responsibility to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5213	Thank you. The replica was re-applied by the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Shimac, I fully agree with you with your statement, and I will now try to quote you, "We should first run a state analysis, check on human resources, see what happens to resources, and then access the new law." Well, that's what I was talking about here on behalf of the club, so that's what other people are warning you didn't have to go into emergency procedures. We objected to HDZ when 10 months ago, or at 4 months ago, when the first debate was launched into the emergency procedure, it gave up. There were two readings, at least two readings, even some remarks and accepted. One of these was your Mrs. Shimac and it concerns what I've already mentioned here I'm going to tell you, here I'm going to refer to your secretary of state first, the opening part where you said that this law is one of the very important and fundamental laws of society and I'm going to say something that's good first, and that's that you erased the term of a mental patient. If it were in normal procedure that this was the first reading today, and if we had another one, we wouldn't have been insinuating a mistake that exactly what you were warning against and what everyone agreed to today is again in this bill on page 2. you speak in the third paragraph "social welfare users are single, families that don't have enough means to settle basic living needs, a child with disabilities or a mentally ill child". Well, it's inadmissible that what you yourself insisted on changing and HDZ changed today you're returning it again. There are also examples when you were talking about some of your suggestions here you were then fostered as we know there is not enough in that area. But I'd suggest a new form, and that's the weekend foster parents. What's up with that? [[Intruder: Time.]] Now it was an opportunity for these proposals to be realized. If this was the first reading we'd have in the second reading of time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5215	We will also hear a reply to the replica of the esteemed Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5216	Thank you very much. I repeat that this proposal today is being adopted in an emergency procedure as one of the fire departments precisely because of the reduction of the damage done during this period when the existing law came into force. And these remarks all and true is when you quoted me as an analysis of the state, resources, resources, etc. In this way, one more responsible way will lead to the new law and all these remarks that you have now said and the remarks that we will be making will surely be adopted because these are good remarks and those that you quoted me as saying before the adoption of the law in 2011 and all those who make remarks that are actually good that will be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5217	His right to a ten-minute debate will now be used by the esteemed representative Vesna Fabiančić Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5218	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister with Associates. So here's listening to the discussion and discussion of the proposal of the Social Care Act today, we can all agree unequivocally, almost everyone except the representatives of the HDZ Club, that the existing system that is regulated under the existing law is neither good nor effective nor realizes its activity in the way that the Social Care Act should, but namely, all examples that are substantiated, and I will substrate them because I think bad examples should be highlighted, shows that unfortunately, the users are the ones who need to get close to the system instead of the system getting closer to the users. Of course the first question that comes after 8 months is why the new law after 8 months? This only indicates when you move into a completely new law, and you do not go into changes and supplement that the system of social care under the existing law really cannot satisfy the users. In the application of the existing law no doubt stems whatever it hears in the debate so far that it has been passed without prior debate. What we could hear today, which is that the law is passed by emergency procedure and that it is not good but certainly I believe it, and most colleagues in the Assembly see it as a transitional solution in order to really prevent the damage resulting from these provisions of the existing law. When I talked about setting an example, let’s say some newspapers that were implemented in the existing law, such as an inclusive supplement, were introduced in a declarative manner, since they had prescribed as many as 16 new regulations to be adopted in order to implement this law in practice. And it really raises the question of what is the system's effectiveness if, for the sake of the need to apply a certain law, there are even 16 procedural rules to bring it back to life in practice. Instead of the arguments expressed for reforming the system that will gradually lead us to decentralisation, the existing law also leads to further centralisation of the system which we have heard very much in this debate. In this segment or that segment, we call on this or that activity to decentralise the system, and by any additional practice so far we have been going towards centralisation of the system which the social care system can really be very difficult to endure. Social care users, and these are people with extremely low incomes without means of transport services or disabled persons under the current law, are forced to travel to social care institutions set up in major cities, the cooperation of newly established branches and institutions is very bad. For example, all branch decisions relating to monetary payments must be delivered physically to the office at the signing of the Director. What kind of operation is that? It's often a matter of tens of miles in one direction. In order to tour the terrain with the official car, employees must go to the office for travel orders. Well, isn't that funny? What's going on in an emergency? And why should employees not spend time in the field and users, spend time on paperwork to remote institutions. But to put aside employees as we have heard in the previous one-time aid debate and for funeral expenses, they must personally come for their so-needed money in the office. What does that mean? You're an invalid, you have nothing to buy a ticket with, you're sick. No, it doesn't matter. What is the message of this law? If you want help and you travel. The fact that some counties cover not only islands but also mountain-mounted areas that are almost by no means or very badly connected by public transport now the valid welfare system simply doesn't know. Is that social care or ruthless centralized red tape, then? As the examples show today in the 21st century, when we found empty millions spent on information in today's social care system amazing but true in the case of a failure of information equipment, it is necessary to wait for an authorised person from Zagreb who will physically take the computer from the branch to Zagreb for repair and return it for tens and more days. Today in the 21st century with so much money spent on information, no system has been seen to date we have discussed social care or someone else is not informed in a way that would be effective and that public administration would be effective. So it takes urgent new law to regulate the area of social care as quickly as possible and in a simpler manner. The current law did not achieve the intended objective, no new, more rational, more effective system aimed at socially vulnerable citizens and socially sensitive groups was created. The final bill that we are discussing today assumes the quality of service, a way that is acceptable to users of social care services, as well as experts who apply and implement the law in their daily work. This necessarily imposes the need to adapt the legal frameworks for the existing state of the system in such a way as to get things back where they were before the existing law came into force, and to adopt the new law as a transitional solution. This will protect the interests of users of rights and services. At the same time, a detailed analysis of the existing situation must be drawn up of course. I believe that will include both the general public and the profession. And that in this way, in accordance with the adopted conventions and international agreements, we will primarily manage the real needs, reality of time with the objectives and standards that we seek to achieve as a modern social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5219	Thank you. And on this replica display rises the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I would like to see this through the Institute of Replications to exchange opinions and try to comment on the future role of the units of regional self-government because you mentioned in your statement that there are also counties that have been involved in their own way so far. But how to comment on the proposal from the 7 pages of the reasoning of this introductory part of the law, which when speaking of the assessment and the source of the necessary means for the implementation of the law, says: "For that reshuffle, it is necessary to decide on minimum financial standards of material and financial expenditure, welfare centres and assistance to settle the costs of dwellings of users heating wood in 2012 in units of the regional self-government, so in the counties above the guidelines, I stress above the guidelines to provide additional millions and 800,000 kuna." It's above the guidelines. Our colleague, Roksandić, was also mentioned, we changed those tax laws and that income tax in a way that reduced our decentralised assets. On the one hand, the county will receive less funds for decentralised functions from which it covered what is, and on the other hand, you are already predicting that there will be an additional amount of nearly 2 million kuna even above the guidelines that have been so far. It's illogical. So I'd like to hear your opinion that you're not more specific about it, but you've touched part of how you look at a bill like this. And yet I stress that it's not an emergency procedure, that it's reading, that the procedure in two readings is all of this that we're talking about today we'd have a chance to fix in a month. And this is how we're gonna do the bad law again. which returns in time from 15 years ago to have at least half a year or maybe more. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5221	Are you applying for an answer? You have to log in while the replica lasts. I urge now the esteemed representative, Zoran Vinkovic, to present his 10-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5222	I thank you, dear, dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament for being me, and I must correct the inscription in "morning" I did not tell the great Mr. President but mercy and kindness, but also thanks to the current Rules of Procedure before you introduce fines. Here, we were at the bank so we changed a hundred kunas for another note or a yellow card.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5223	I beg you, colleague Vinkovic, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5224	I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5225	No, no. The Theme Is the Law
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5226	This is the opening speech in which all MPs button their jackets, I have no intention, and welcome this all
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5227	Comrade Vinkovic, let's be fair. When we have changes to the Rules of Procedure or the introduction of an ethical code you can talk about anything you want, but please be kind, stick to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5228	Thank you. So the basis of this law is that this law is once again passed by emergency procedure. We believe that this emergency procedure is not good for us in the HDSSB because it is precisely doing a series of failures in this legislative proposal that this law will have to go very quickly, probably again in an urgent procedure because, like that series of remarks from the previous law which HDZ did not put into the legal proposal, there is a series of remarks on this bill that neither this government will adopt because it simply believes that it is the smartest and what it does is only possible and that nothing else and any other possibility and other proposals that come from the opposition are not good. The basis of this law is therefore also in the famous decentralisation, and I do not repeat everything that my colleague Buric said on behalf of the HDSSB club, I will shorten this simple principle of decentralisation, which among other things is just new obligations to local and regional self-government units, but without real fiscal decentralisation, without the insurance of funds, or money from the budget of any city, county or state budget precisely for functions directly affecting the work of units of local and regional self-government, since neither regional nor local self-government after the impact of these new minimum reform measures on the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government will be able to secure because it is precisely the biggest loss in the less developed parts of Croatia. Unfortunately, Slavonia and Baranja, thanks to the negligence and politics that has been under way for all these 20 years, are at a low bottom on budget revenues and per capita. Since I am acting as mayor, I am familiar with the entire spectrum of social care measures, especially because the city of Đakovo is one of those who are ahead in, not only Slavonia and Baranja, but also Osijek-Baranja County, but also the whole of Croatia in social care programmes. And among other things, almost 10% of the original income stands out for welfare programmes. This is among other things legal aid for the settlement of housing costs, food costs, one-time cash aid, right to support the work of social-humanitarian associations, right to other assistance, rent of the apartment, communal fee, electricity, gas, heating, water, draining, waste and the supply of wood for heating, etc., etc. In any case, the city of Đakovo was one of the first to participate in helping a fully endangered category of population in the Republic of Croatia, which is those of nearly 800 thousand pensioners who receive normal, not privileged pensions. And among the first, if not the first city to assign Christmas and resurrection as one of the measures to help that category of population. Unfortunately, the situation is such in the Republic of Croatia that this aid does not satisfy the needs of these pensioners in any case because they have indeed been brought to the brink of life. And here's what I'm going to show you about here for a number of years we've been bringing amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, and I'm just going to show you three examples where this very social concern of the state doesn't even show up at all. Here is only electricity we are witnessing that either old or new administration, but also Croatia's electricity is fully excavating most Croatian citizens from its service, while at the same time solving the problem of excess electricity is paying neighbouring countries for storage because there is no possibility of storage of electricity of enormous amounts. On the other hand, the notion of cheap electricity is not available to all citizens because almost no one is normal in those hours when that electricity is cheap can't do their job except for those who work on the third shift. By increasing the heat used through gas energy, anyone who uses and receives this energy from HEP will be able to see that he pays additional energy-related energy-related energy-related power. Therefore, if the energy value of the gas delivered is greater than the standard, i.e. the average, then the wages and additional kunas that are tied to the cubic area, if that gas is less then its price is standardised and depends on the mean value. Here three years ago, together with one association, therefore the social care programme should refer to all categories of people who need the help, the city of Đakovo, together with the Amadea association, has launched a project of programme and assistance for older people. It is a day-long stay of older people, including Osijek-Baranja County, and for three years, the contract was opened by the Ministry of Social Care when the minister was Mr. Ivić and no kuna came for the programme. The Holy Cross sisters' monastery gave and arranged an old military space in the centre of Djakova, some 100 to 150 users of the programme use the programme, while the only ones providing funds are the city of Đakovo, Osijek-Baranja County and the monastery itself of the Holy Cross sisters. The state's taking care of the social programme is perhaps the best example, has not even given lip so far. I can only hope that this policy that has been in force so far and applied to political similarities will not apply, but since it is visible in the budget that exactly the counties where the Kukuriku coalition is in power receive an increase in funding for social programmes, and where citizens' will not have corn coalitions in power, there is a significant reduction in that budget. In the end, another example does not worry about one category of the population, they are blind. Where I have had four and five years of amendment as my representative, and there have been speeches and received by the current Prime Minister, then the SDP president and Deputy Prime Minister and promised to increase that fee, Croatia today has all a 50-euro fee per blind person, and only Albania in Albania has 100 euros per blind person without mentioning France, which has 715 euros. Well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5229	Thank you very much. But your presentation disagrees in some respects with the reputable representative Dinko Buric, who stands up with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5230	Thank you. Col. Vinkovic said a lot of things from this bill but failed to speak, although I expected him to do so because for a short period of time I did not arrive on some of the provisions of certain articles of the Law which are at least a little confusing. The last Article 269 states that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal, with the exception of the provisions of Article 172(2) and Article 200(4) of this Act, which enter into force on the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union. This should indeed be explained because here is Article 172, which speaks of the consultations in that paragraph, says this way that "the condition of a professional examination and citizenship is not relevant to the citizens of the European Union". And in Article 200 which will not come into force now but will come into force when Croatia joins the European Union to discuss the section on expert workers on professional improvement of progress, it is said that the conditions for the implementation of the traineeship and the passing of the expert examination do not apply to citizens of the Member States of the European Union. This should be well thought out whether these formulations of the bill are most correct so that we do not have the right to work at the consultant to have some new babes Vange and that our experts have to pass both the traineeship and the expert exam and everything to prove their expertise. Why should we pre-absorbed any foreign citizen and let him work in consultations within Croatia when it comes to social care and at the same time make it impossible for our citizens without very demanding procedures to prove their own expertise. Therefore, I thought that my colleague Vinkovic would touch that part obviously because of the shortness of time, so I use it to replicate it, and it would be convenient to hear it in the final word, I hope that the Deputy Minister will also talk about it and the Ministry's opinion on concrete remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5231	The opportunity to respond to this replica is being given to a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5232	I thank you, here's an esteemed colleague for a short period of time since I have far more objections to this law than we can say in 10 minutes the basic proposal that the HDSSB makes to the competent ministry but also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to withdraw this law from the emergency procedure because we do not have to replace something bad with an even worse one. And here, for example, and something that I haven't been able to touch right now, it's a reduction of the basic rights of the past law that applies to, something you said on behalf of the club about, which applies here's help for heating only. Where no funding is provided in the state budget where it is necessary in regional units but also local self-government to provide an additional 2 million kuna, I say it will be far more. Since the basic needs of the population are now measured by the number of squares and there are far more people at risk, especially that part of the elderly households in our Slavonian, Baranski and Western Srijem villages, but in villages across Croatia that have far more squares but have no chance of example, because most Croatian pensioners cannot survive their pension for 5 days, and those 25 days cannot be on bread or on milk that our farmers from Croatian farms shared by cities, but can simply be on the water that certain cities collect, regardless of what VAT is reduced to 10%, but the real VAT and real cost of life are not only 2% but they are raised by 10% to 15%. Because it's 2% from 23 to 25 right now that they're banging on these most endangered parts and categories of the population, and in the 21st century, living on oils, on fat and on water and on bread, I don't think it's an option for those who at least lived and worked and lived to enjoy their retirement, to enjoy their grandchildren, but unfortunately not at the height of their pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5233	Thank you very much. The debate was also attended by prominent representative Ruza Tomasic, however, as she does not exist in the hall, she loses the right to discuss the issue. So your chance gets the prized Danes Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy and associates. I'd like to get involved in this debate and say a few words about this issue. I think this social problem could basically be divided into two groups to say so. One is the person who is located in a particular institution, and another is the problem all those who are not located but receive different help from different sources. And from the content of the law, and otherwise, it is concluded that the basic purpose and purpose of all of this is to actually receive the help of those who need it, without really being accepted by those who need it the least. And in this sense, it is also emphasized here that, in my opinion, they are also responsible for such a situation operationally down the field, primarily social care centres, then the Employment Service, the local community, and possibly here and there, there would be a need for certain cooperation with pension insurance. In particular, Article 47 points out that there is a certain obligation of cooperation between the Social Care Centre and the Employment Office. However, in the very text of the law, in my opinion, there is not enough emphasis on the role of local self-government, so I suggest that, in certain sublaws or instructions, either by the Minister or by other competent ones, this moment highlights a little more precisely in this regard because, on the one hand, it also imposes certain obligations on local self-government and, on the other hand, local self-government does not have almost any or minimal influences and helps the welfare centre when deciding when a solution is being made which and how much assistance it will receive. And in this respect, I think that there is a situation down on the ground where the social care centre after it has done its job, and apparently the users are not satisfied at that time, an increasing number of these users are referred to the local community, and it is not precisely defined when it comes to one-time assistance was about the nature of the money, where these criteria are and I think there is a certain coordination and co-operation between the social care centre and the local community. In this regard, I think it will be necessary to do something about the quality of this cooperation. I must say, however, that Article 195(2) speaks about when the centre decides and finance local or regional self-government that certain contracts between that local self-government and the centre are likely to be concluded by the criteria and by the content of that contract should be defined those moments or those criteria relating to the payment and use of that aid. I'd like to say two, three more words about the following, I think in this problem at least down in rural areas, it's hard to assess how it is in cities, a little bit of transparency is missing. That's what I'm saying for the reason that I'm familiar with the practice of being in an environment or in a village, so to speak of a thousand people once a list of users was published then a small revolution arose because the dissatisfaction of the inhabitants of that place was established because there are indeed several who should not be allowed to receive it at all. And it's probably because there's no word in those materials either. There is no obligation to revise these solutions, or the whole list of those social assistance users, whether it is a complete situation or legal situation. Is it obvious that the one who receives a year, two or five years based on certain data that he presented in that paper theory all endures, has achieved the right, and in the meantime if there has been a change in that sense that this change could potentially affect the increase in aid then it is reported. However, if there has been a change in inheritance or other specific aid that would affect the reduction or elimination of aid, it is generally very rarely the social care centre. For this reason, I think the obligation of a specific audit yearly or two-yearly or in some way in cooperation with local communities should be introduced to control this. And I mentioned in the introduction that the Pension Insurance Service may in some ways be involved in this problem, because we have such a situation down in the field often times that the family where there are still relatively capable and on various grounds receive various visions and help a few thousand at the same time have, in particular, farmers, households or families where people have done 40 or 45 years of training in agriculture and their pension is perhaps 40, 50, or 70% of this assistance that these other families receive. I think that when determining heights and these relationships, maybe certain things should be seen and corrected if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5235	Something in your debate wants to correct the respected Zoran Vinkovic who stands up with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5236	You were right when you said if I understood you correctly that the burden of this law would fall back on units of local self-government on urban, municipal and county budgets, which stands entirely. Given that these mini-tax reforms have reduced the fiscal power of exactly the unit of local and regional self-government. However, it should be clear to those responsible in the ministry that categorisation of social threats cannot be determined in the number of squares of living space but in the actual state in which the person or family concerned is found. Today we need to be clear that we have almost 350,000 unemployed who may receive and one part receives compensation from the Employment Service, that we have 800,000 pensioners who are forced to come either to the municipality or to the city or to the county to seek social assistance, one-time assistance even though they have no right under the former law nor will they have under this. But simply at that level of retirement, I can't survive for a month. There's that whole middle layer in Croatia that's definitely lost, people who may have a house floor or maybe a Mercedes 15-year-old that's either 50 or 20. If it's 50, then he can sell it as an old timer. But people who are at risk in Croatia today, who have no income, who have children at school, are also coming to ask for that social assistance. Or young people who are out of perspective today. And instead of introducing spin decriminalization of easy drugs, let's find them a job to get away from heavy drugs because they're not willingly on easy drugs or on heavy drugs. They're on them right now for the sake of imperceptibility in this country. And that's the only fact. [[/Intruder Stazic: Time. Time co-worker.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5237	Thank you very much. An esteemed representative, Boro Grubisic, came forward for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vinkovic, here I am going to continue on these words of yours. I know a family in Slavonski Brod whose head is therefore the father of a pensioner who has 2,000 kunas. His two kids went to law school. He hasn't worked either, neither can get a job in three years. To educate the children, he sold his cottage in Rogoznica, right in Rogoznica, and allowed them to graduate from the Faculty of Law in Osijek. I haven't been able to find a job in three or four years. Now, since they have a house that they acquired 40 years ago, I wonder if they all fit into the social cases of all three, four, or who the social case is. But to go back to the proposal for a social care law itself should be some kind of newspaper, some kind of innovation, and in fact, returning legal provisions to what was before this vote eight months ago when the HDZ government adopted in early June last year only so seven, eight months ago, its legal proposal, to say. The new budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year provides for 50 million kuna less. Now, I guess the prognosis of the one who was making the budget was too optimistic to possibly predict that there would be this number of bankruptcys that he brings and then a far greater number of unemployed who grow up as a germ as they say in Slavonia day by day. We see pictures, sad pictures from Dalmatia wine, Dioki, where that fireman says he's out of milk for his underage, underage, whatever you want, there's no money. So, the number of bankruptcys rises, the number of unemployed rises, VAT increases all the prices despite promises, and to the government's appeals, the appeal is an appeal. It's just like that by the way, so don't increase the price, but it's not really a serious measure. Apple is no measure, no call. The number of social cases, therefore, could be expected to be increased. But there are 50 million kunas in the budget. Furthermore, since the government says that nothing can work in the dairy industry and help farmers expect it to be ours, in our agricultural areas, and Slavonia will mainly have the number of social cases in our villages where the farmer on his property will become a social case. And they are now becoming, and the number of millions in the budget is 50 less for this year for social needs. Now, when it comes to squares where someone can declare a social case or not, the limit is about 35 squares. So I'm asking you if someone has 50 or 60 squares older person who lives alone can she of those squares they have, and you can't split the house in half and sell it, and living somewhere in the country can't even rent to anyone, can she pay from those, from that house TV subscription like so-called. a para fiscal charge or a fee, a telephone connection that is normally not paid anywhere except in the Republic of Croatia. In Germany, Deutsche Telekom asks the user to be a subscriber, not to still pay some base of about 70 kunas like us 10 euros. It's nowhere to be found, only a Croatian citizen is exploited, and the biggest thing to say is robbery, nothing more than robbery. Dida and Grandma have and paid for it was their only party watching TV. In total, they had a pension income or the so-called pension income. National pensions of the 2000 kuna agricultural sector, 2 and a half. One of them dies, half that income goes into the house, but the TV subscription stays the same. The TV subscription is equal to the one which should be a social measure for those who have a manager's salary of 40,000 kuna and grandmothers who have a pension of 1000 kuna or 2000 kuna. No discount, no social skills to say sensitivity. But let me say again on this law which, in fact, given the laws adopted on income tax, is further transferred to local and regional self-government units. To make things more paradoxical, this new law will bring out 80 new welfare centers. Each of these centers, well not new, but in fact it's being seduced by branches turning into centres, so there will be about 80 of them in the state of Croatia. Each of them has a leader, each of the leaders has a secretary, each of the leaders must have a car and so on. The assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this Act shows that no additional financial resources are required. So I'm asking you if you have 80 principals, what's the name of leaders, directors don't matter what they're called, and if they have their own employees again who belong because they can't be without a secretary and without an auxiliary staff, then how is it that no new kuna is needed to implement this law? Even more interesting in the fourth order of evaluations and sources of the necessary means to implement this law, I quote: "The implementation of this law does not bring any further changes", which is very interesting, does not bring any further changes "except for the reconstruction of the Department of Social Care in the County into the welfare centres." Is this really how it says it does not bring any additional changes or improvements? Except that the seducers are turning into centers. Furthermore, for that redesign it is necessary to decide on the minimum financial standards of the social care and assistance centres and on the settlement of housing costs of wood users in 2012 in the units of the regional (regional) self-government behind the guidelines to provide an additional million and 800 thousand kuna. However, some additional million and 800 thousand kuna must be provided even though this is the last word or letter in this paragraph or the assessment item and the sources of the necessary funds. Now, in our unfortunate County of Brod-Posavina, we have a scandal in connection with the abuse of this institution of social care with a heating tree where some 300 users are blacked out, so even the process in the DORH is being conducted, etc. That's what these people who are working and who are in the ministry, I think they know exactly what this is about. So there's a variety of malfeasances. I would like that as someone said here seems to me in front of the HNS club or I don't know who, the lady here representative colleague, to pass this law, you've spoken, transparency and accessibility, so you said, but many of us, we're all, in fact, all witnesses to a large number of us are witnesses of daily abuse of social care where those who drive and very luxurious expensive cars are on a manger center or office for whatever you want, just changing their name, for social care. Furthermore, page 6 states that the new Social Care Act creates preconditions for further reforming the social care system as an important part of the public sector on the following principles: one of these principles is to encourage the employment of persons with disabilities to support the organisation of public works and to clearly define cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5239	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5240	Okay, it will be. Here. Public works go with a new investment cycle. Until there's a new investment, it's hard for public works to be able to be so useful or it's actually spilling from hollow to empty. Well, here's just enough to get rid of people who are working from the Social Care Centre to transfer back to the Croatian Employment Service and actually nothing important in this bill as my predecessors from the club said is not bringing or changing, and there's
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5241	Kola Grubišić
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5242	Yeah, yeah, yeah. In addition to seduction, it becomes centers and the number of centers increases. And nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5243	Here you will have the opportunity to explain this thought to the end, because with the replica of your presentation, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic first stood up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5244	You're absolutely right to quote these examples of life. And so far, we have had, and I think this is the fifth or sixth amendment to this law, and each law further limits the possibility of those who are directly threatened to take part in social care. I haven't forgotten, but here I purposely left you with this replica of a category of population that no law, no decision, can enter into the social care program. It is about families where one is employed and gets one normal salary, the average average salary in Slavonia and Baranja of 2500 kuna. He may work in large malls, he may work in some newspapers that owe him billions of kuna for value added tax, etc., he may work in a particular industry where employers are also obliged to this state because they owe almost 50 billion kuna, and receive 2500 kuna, they have two children who have to go to primary or high school and are really a social case. Because social cases aren't just the 350 thousand unemployed or these 800 thousand pensioners, they're almost 160 thousand employees who receive these kind of pay. Such a law that additionally imposes restrictions does not help that group of people, nor does it help those who have been in certain legal frameworks so far. Nor does this law enable what is most important, which is the means that at this point in the budget will not be possible even for this reduction of social rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5245	Time. No, no. Not again. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5246	I'm finishing my sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5247	But for you, you didn't finish it. I let you finish your sentence when you're out of time. So don't start a new one because that would already mean abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5248	Instead of a meter of wood, there's only one log I was going to say, and that's that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5249	Comrade Grubishic, respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5250	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, fellow Vinkovic and such people in the Republic of Croatia will be more and more, and what we were saying about a 35-square-square area – you can't eat the house, so it's not edible, so it's 35, 50 or 60 squares, so it's completely irrelevant. But here, in this law, social care is limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5251	Another replica, distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5252	Dear fellow Grubisic that it is true will be this law of older people in the country who live in houses, perhaps hundreds of squares, in houses they cannot share, in houses they cannot sell and buy a smaller house, will be cut off by those people living in apartments in Zagreb or another city, living in an apartment of 60, 70 square meters because they cannot sell it because at this moment on the market in Zagreb there are 15 thousand apartments that no one wants to buy, better, good ones, so they are unable to sell to secure social assistance, and social assistance under this law cannot be obtained. But they'll have social aid for those maherers driving in angry cars and having their own car and villa registered to another person.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5253	And the answer to the distinguished Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5254	YES, in these angry cars, children are brought to kindergartens and paid for the same kindergarten at minimum prices or even released depending on the provisions of the local or regional self-government regulations. Unfortunately, I don't think this law meant it, it wasn't covered, so it didn't go deep enough in these situations, so I welcome this replica of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5255	We continue with an individual debate, the esteemed representative of Višnja Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would look again at one fact of the current law that was in force was very hasty without the debates of quality which were then supposed to be, and it was 7 years and I don't think that in those 7 years there was a need for such urgency. I will mention a non-sensual which also happened, and it happened in the constitutions of social care for older and powerless persons the number of users with 200 had to be 100 users. I would just ask respected MPs here if you know what the number of pensioners today are waiting for existing institutions and we should not increase the number of 200 that I agree with but it should not be reduced. In particular, when we asked colleagues at the ministry what it meant for the current situation, at least let the existing state remain what it is now, Dom Trešnevka has 700 users, the answer was to make me 7 new institutions. That was then. Now, I'd say here that it was actually inadmissible to me and it couldn't be done at all and never. I would especially stress here in this proposal of the Law of Social Services which are very high-quality and listed and I will say specifically in the city of Zagreb what it means, the development outside of the institution that we have ten gerontological centres and what it means next. This means that these services that are specifically mentioned here, and even additional services if local administration and self-government have opportunities, we will achieve this, in Zagreb are already achieved in a certain way that there will be less pressure on the existing homes of the pensioners, because they will be provided services in his home, and you will agree that there is no better service for the user than in the home of the users and it is also very important that we are the poll that we did to the service providers who have said that they now feel much less alone because this development institution is not only in his home but also socialising, excursions, exercise and what it contains. And for the finale, I would say again and mention that the proposal for this new law is a transitional solution and that, in the next period, the aim is to protect the interests of users of the rights and services of the social care system, and I will mention when it has been spoken on several occasions about welfare services and social care centres. YES, social care centres must be re-formed urgently to ensure that access to users is made available. In this way, we have all heard that this is impossible, this is about the users of those whom we can provide, and where it is more, and where less funds have been spent, it will surely have been taken into account, but social care centres had to be urgently and urgently established, and precisely because of this urgency, this Law had to be adopted by an urgent procedure because otherwise, gentlemen dearly could not function in the opposite system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5257	Thank you for your rational use of time. And one notice, we still have six colleagues and a co-worker to discuss, and we're not going to take a break until we discuss this law by the end of the day, and at 3:00 we're going to vote. Therefore, in the interest of all of us, I ask that we use time as rationally as possible. The next person to report for a ten-minute debate is Honorable Representative Damir Bajs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5258	I must say, of course, when we talk about social care, then we are talking about what every society can and should do for those who are the weakest in this society. It reflects what we really are, how human we are, how much we lay on exactly these fundamental values. However, perhaps I should underline that right now and here we have to say how much Croatian society has problems. It is a problem that is so much more important, when we have 340 thousand people at the Employment Service, when nursing family households in cities or villages are actually beginning to prevail, and this relationship should be implemented through this Law. The way it's supposed to be doesn't really bounce away from the past law. It has been said that he has the same specifics and therefore, in this way, we do not have much to talk about. Maybe I'd just compliment one thing and it's this extra-institutional framework that's expanding because we have to have social care in our family, then in the community, and then it's just some kind of welfare center or something else. However, when we talk about this law, we are talking about the final law, but here today, in the interpretation of this Law, one thing is said, and that is that this law is just creating preconditions for the law that will come. If we look at it that way, then we are not talking about a law that will last but about a law that is actually temporary and, in fact, the proposer makes it clear. If we have to resolve the precondition first, then we have to resolve the condition and then we can only and we need to solve the problem ourselves. That would make us actually have three more laws to discuss right now. And so I don't want that much on social care, because I hope that everything that needs to be done will be worked out in those other laws that have been announced and that have yet to come. But the first strand of guidance in the reasoning of the law here is about local self-government with decentralisation. And that's right. The law states that this is a preparation for decentralisation. But there is no decentralisation now. Whether welfare centres will exist or be at the level of the institute is actually completely irrelevant to the end-user. It's a state-of-the-art thing where they're going to ask for help in social care. And accordingly, if it's not intended for the centres to go towards the county and cities if it's not intended for us to have a local self-government that gets funds from the state budget for that, then we're talking about something that just one day might happen. ...the funds are still being given out of the state budget. This law does not provide for any change in the law on the state budget which would... reform and therefore cannot speak at all about that decentralisation can and should be the basis under this law. If this is a return to social care centres on the basis of the Director's request as indicated here, then it should be made clear. So it's not about the needs of users so much it's not about setting up a common model of social care in some other way, it's about the request of a director that the government wanted to meet. And in this interlaw, and not the final proposal of this law, not by the final law, but by the law that is for a one-time use of probably 6 months, we will only have a second chance to discuss what is actually the basis of it, which is actually a concern for those who are covered by this law and that is the weakest part of Croatian society that needs not only the centre but also many other circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5259	And I thank you, colleague Byce, for your rational use of time. Despite the request to use it rationally, we will not reduce the rights of the MPs to replicate you, so here I give the word to Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5260	You see, distinguished colleagues, even a good tourist season, will not significantly change things in the Republic of Croatia, will not change this number of 350 thousand unemployed who are constantly growing. But the fact that this law does not need much to be praised that the RH budget has reduced 50 million kuna to this ministry. I can't believe that the situation in Varazdin County is so much worse than in Osijek-Baranja County that Osijek-Baranja reduces the funds by 3 million kunas, and Varazdinska increases by 7 million kunas or I have the wrong data or is indeed in Varazdin County an extremely bad situation. Maybe thanks to that embalmed garbage that's in Varazdin or possibly small wages in Međimurje, but I don't believe that's the case. So, the basis of this law is definitely and this is an invitation to the government of the Republic of Croatia to put it in second reading because this law reduces the rights of current users of the social care programme and almost 30% loses rights under this law. Most of them will be affected, they will not be affected by those with gold chains and Mercedes because they are difficult at all to determine that they have this Mercedes and that they wear that gold chain, but precisely the restrictions will feel the nursing households in Slavonia and in all of Croatia, those who need it most, those who don't actually have those receipts in order to survive those months I talked about. Since it burns red, I call on the government to put this law in second reading and to provide additional funding for fiscal decentralisation so that cities can participate in this programme And cities and counties. [[Intruder: Time of fellow Vinkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5261	Well, don't break it all the time, all the time. I call now on the esteemed representative Ivan Grubisic to present his ten-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5262	Just a small note regarding this law we advocate not for the social welfare as independent representatives but for the social state. That's still a big difference. Investing in work, hiring because social cases will always have but should be built up by a social state. There is an anecdote related to the past system when Edward Cardellj visited Sweden then gave a report to the central committee and said that the health status of the welfare community is good, the housing issue is well solved, that everything is well solved, but not a good theory for them. I'm afraid we're not good at theory or practice. Doing everything and not being threatened is not a good thing that we are discussing those who today are concerned about what they will eat and how they survive. We live in a paradox country, therefore, and I am now stressing that we need rooted reforms to achieve the social state and employment, and not so much social activity because employees in resolving social issues may be many for a certain time. Therefore, the board should be turned around and built up by Croatia, which also states in the Constitution that Croatia is a democratic, rights and social state. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5263	Thank you. Next for individual debate, representative Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few words about this new law. And any changes that are well-intentioned or welcome in any case and as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, but above all as mayor in the local self-government unit, I accept. But I certainly don't accept it if it goes to the burden of local self-government and what my colleagues have already spoken about in their discussions. It is not clear to me that we want to carry out decentralisation and that at the same time, and it is certainly important for me, and I would like to hear here the representatives of the ministry and your deputies and I welcome you, both, and how you intend to decentralise certain financial indicators, and at the same time transfer it to the burden of the local self-government unit. I fully agree that local self-government units should take care of certain things but above all, I am not in favour of putting on the burdens of local self-government units what they cannot carry out. I'm in my presentation when I'm talking about that untaxable part of my personal income, 1800 to 2000 kuna, and there's this new law where we've passed, so a new law where the Ministry of Finance, or where the state with those 2% will subsidize the local self-government, is actually going to be clouding the eyes of the public. Because if someone in my local budget took an example of me based on this non-taxable part from 1800 to 2,000 ten things, and at the same time gave me back one of what I got in local self-government. And you're Vice President as far as I know the mayor is concerned. We didn't get anything. The local self-government unit has been destitute. Individuals who need a profit, and thus are perceived on their own income will receive 10, 20 kuna or not, but the biggest losers are local self-government units. Why am I saying that? And this law here amended also tells us, and here on page 7, it says, "The units of local self-government are the ones who use those wood resources, so for the social services and are obliged to provide an additional 1 million and 800,000 kuna additional funds that this ministry does not have." We are also witnessing the adoption of the 2012 budget and it is evident that 50 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Social Care is missing. How and how the people who run this government and ministers imagined that the units of local self-government could function if we had already taken their funds on the basis of an increase in the untaxable part of personal income. If we load them with all kinds of other obligations. Did individuals ask themselves how long it took for certain local self-government to be sustainable because not all local self-government units in the ranks of units such as Varazdin, Samobor, Zagreb and all of these major cities have their own large incomes? I come from Požega-Slavon County from the town of Pleternica where I also act as mayor and that is why I am very concerned about these new laws that simply drive us to think about how and how we will survive in such small regional units of local self-government. I come from Slavonia where there are no economic activities at the level of other units of local self-government that I was just talking about. And that's why this new law makes me think that, and that's what I've been saying, in a year or two, we're going to give the conclusion that certain units of local self-government can't survive. Gentlemen, this is about you who are in office today and who are acting in office in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and you MPs in the Parliament, and I am talking because you are also representatives of units of local self-government to question your existence. Because with these new laws, I'm afraid that little resources left on the budgets of the local self-government units will not work. I'm absolutely that for decentralisation, but for decentralisation where the funds will be deposited from the state budget so that local self-government units will have income, and on the other hand they have expenditure. Well, you can't just put a burden on us at the same time, and we can't and there's nothing to pay for it. Or rather, on page 87, he says: "The units of the district and regional self-government are obliged to provide funds for heating costs in their budget, and units of local self-government with the means to meet the right to settle housing costs." Gentlemen, I assure you, and I'm also asking people in the ministry, so are you sure that we in local self-government units can do this? What did you do to this new law to us? You did this to us that tomorrow any person who is socially endangered will be able to sue us if we don't honor what you wrote in this law. So how can we pay off the example of 970 kuna as far as we've been and if I have 300 users it's 300,000 kuna for my so small unit of local self-government if, at the same time in this year, my income is going to be reduced by 800,000 kuna. I ask you how and how my future is ensured in my local budget or good today is not a topic. We are also talking about a safe time to talk about helping out at the house where you sent us all the mayors and mayors a memo, that this programme is being implemented in 2012 that I am very pleased and happy because today it was signed by 91 units of local self-government or better said 160 units of local self-government with 15500 users, with 1050 employees. Gentlemen, today you have given again the opportunity to make public work, so congratulations to the people who are unemployed. But if we're thinking tomorrow about putting this help program in the house too, and you've highlighted this on the burden of local self-government, then these 1,000 people are going to disappear, and those we're using for public works in the local self-government unit, you know why we're using them? So that people get what they swear, we don't have jobs for them, and we use them to take advantage of the opportunity for people to earn something. I wanted to say something else. Let's give this program a chance to keep these 1050 people alive. Don't put that on the local self-government unit because the units aren't able to finance it, and we're already very much funding it. And I think somewhere around a million and 450 thousand kunas from local self-government units are already co-financed. I'm telling you, even though it's not about keeping these 1050 people from working on this help program in the house. And all that we've done so far, these changes go to the burden of local self-government. As mayor, or mayor, I am very concerned because in a year, two days, we will question the existence of local self-government in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5265	Thank you. We have four replicas. Mr. Davor Stier's representative came forward first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a respected colleague you mentioned that Samobor City is in a better financial situation than the town of Pleternica. That is true, but we in Samobor are also concerned about this bill, not only because of the fact that the city of Samobor is also having financial burdens on this, that is, what is being proposed here, but what we see in these changes is the possibility and haste of this proposal, the possibility of actually being named new councils and actually being replaced by people in the centre, and this has just been tried by the Ministry to do with the Social Care Centro in the Samobor Lug. Thanks to one and the parliamentary issue, we stopped it, and it seems to me that the ministry has withdrawn such a decision, but here we are afraid that now these changes would not lead to new opportunities for such shifts. And against that, here they are as a representative not only of HDZ but all citizens and citizens of Samobor can say that both the Samobor SDP and HNS and HSS are all against exactly such shifts at the Samobor Lug Centre. They would not want this bill to be a basis for such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5267	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5268	Well, I've been speaking to a colleague on this particular subject because I really want to be well-intentioned in this debate without any political tensions to say that the adoption of laws like this that will improve better I don't know or will not be burdened by the state budget is not good. He will be burdened by local self-government, but respected gentlemen we do not have the strength and opportunities in local self-government especially in these smaller units of local self-government to fight with all these new laws now or rather to impose units of local self-government. And for a reason I'm worried especially about coming from Slavonia and as I said where our units of local self-government, and there my colleagues are also from the HDSSB, so the same thing they talked about because they come from the same area, we simply don't have the possibility and existence. And that's why I'm very concerned, which is why I'm appealing here and the Deputy Minister to simply direct the funds and help these very socially endangered people because those 300 people who get help in the Pleternica if this new law of those 970 kunas that they've been getting, then these people will be very unhappy, then we'll have in the area of Slavonia in the 21st century that our people will freeze. Is that what we need? And let's not reduce these funds or burden them on local self-government units, but leave them in the ministry, or in the state budget, to make them our incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5269	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Kolar's representative came forward next for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. My dear colleague here I must say that I share concerns about social care. But not only that, I share my concern for the complete state of the Republic of Croatia, by the way you've led us. But something else bothers me. I'm bothered by one thing, you're in several of your discussions very thoroughly listening to you constantly talking about some kind of harbinger and imposition that is now being transferred to local self-government units by these laws. If I remember correctly, and you remember too, I don't know if you reacted, remember that twice your government entered the tax system of local self-government units. The first time we changed profit tax and the second time we changed rates from 4 to 3 taxes per income in 1.07. Every time local self-government units have lost a good share of their income, and I don't remember once that the government has compensated in some way. Now that the finance minister has also made it clear that it is only an attempt to compensate for the burden to be deployed, and also on the association of cities and on the association of municipalities, we have all agreed together regardless of the party's belongings that this law has been spent and that it simply needs a new Law on financing local and regional self-government. And I hope that we will bring it by consensus and that we will really go to decentralisation of Croatia and fiscally and each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5271	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5272	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, here's the last time you answered my debate, but I just have to tell you that you're wrong when you talk about the former government. So, I'm not here as you've noticed, nor was I intended to speak politically, and you're re-associating to politics. The past government has increased the share of income tax. You may not have known that, but go back and check it out and see that the past government has really increased that share in income tax. But I've been talking really honest about local self-government units here. You will also feel it on your skin in your local self-government unit. I'm not here against these laws, but I'm against functioning because this way we're going to be in a position not to be able to function in local self-government units. Well, this isn't just one law that goes to the burden of local self-government. So we've already passed a few laws that are already burdening local self-government and these changes in the taxed personal income, so we're going to be burdened by about 800,000 kunas. So we'll be in a position not to be able to function. And we are one of the units of local self-government, so smaller units in Požega-Slavon County that has extremely good co-operation with all ministries, with all the funds and with European funds where we have withdrawn a lot of funds where we have just built on a policy led towards local self-government units, and in this way, if we are brought in so that we cannot function so that we can build ourselves, how we will build the future of human existence in the areas of Požega-Slavon County or in my midst. Not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5273	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5274	Mr Lucic is true that few in this Croatian Parliament and especially in the governments of the Republic of Croatia recognize the fiscal capacities of our counties in Slavonia, and then municipalities and cities such as Pleternica, there you said that you have 900 users who are undermining the costs of heating, pardon 300 per 900, the entire County of Brodo-Posaviska has over 3000 such heating users and now, most interesting on that page of 87 you mentioned, says so. Units of local and regional self-government are obliged to pay heating costs, then settle housing costs for social cases, the third paragraph is to organise meals in the soup kitchens and the fourth provision of services at the shelter. All of this goes to burden, units of local, regional self-government are required. And what is most interesting and even ironic about saying in the last sentence of this paragraph is that these services can be in greater scope than is set out in this Law in a way prescribed by the General Act if they have the means to do so in their budget. I'd say even cynicalally a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5275	Here's the answer to the replica, Agent Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5276	I couldn't agree more, so I just said that my colleagues had just commented on what I was saying. Look, if we're going to put the same thing tomorrow, and the indication is that local self-government units need to be more involved in a program of help in a house that works fantasticly today, we have 225 users in the city of Platternica today. Just the fact in this number of 225 users of people is that telling you anything? Well, that's exactly what he's saying is that there's a great need for the very socially endangered people that they need help. If we're going to put that on tomorrow, and the indication is that this is going to go to the burden of local self-government, I'm afraid these users will be left without the help we're talking about today, and so what I just said, let's focus on these people because 1050 people are working in Croatia today to help out in the house, and let's not throw ourselves away with the funds in public works where we're going to be taking people as leaders of local self-government to get some resources and ask if we can give them an adequate job. That's why we target these people who do an extremely good job, and that's helping those who need it most, and that's why we're having such a policy, and I say my debate is exclusively for the purpose of local self-government units, but certainly to direct the funds where it's important and not to throw them to the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5277	Thank you. Next call came Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5278	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to explain something to Mr. Lucic, and I am also speaking here to Assistant Minister Ledinski with his associates. Namely, this Social Care Act is adopted by emergency procedure without prior discussion and I have received this two days a series of e-mails relating to the objections to this Act, and it is important to stress that all interested in this Act which have been called upon to make observations, none of them have been adopted and the most relevant concerns to the network of persons with disabilities in Dalmatia, a disabled association with physical damage to Imotski, the city of Zadar, Vukovar, etc. What Mr. Lucic said about local self-government units is true, but here I would also help the assistant minister in the following way. Namely, the databases that are in the bodies of the social care centre are not complete, so from the area where I come from means of the island, coasts, a large number of people have worked abroad and have their rights, their pensions, and as such are actually unemployed and without any income in the Republic of Croatia and are providing assistance for a personal invalid and any other assistance from the Social Care Centre. And something else about a personal disability when you have touched this and an allowance for assistance and care, there are things for people who receive help and care where children appear as advocates according to the rightful settlement of the inheritance, they have the right to request payments of the leftover aid after the death of users of benefits for help and care and did not at the time of their right to live in that same household or to contribute to its abstention for which they would have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5279	Thank you. In the same way as the mayor, I agree with the second term in some things with my colleagues that they discussed, however, I can also say that I followed closely in 2008, 9-11 of the incomes of similar units, and I can say that here, who exhibited much less tax revenue per capita, I have had my city, and in these two mandates I cannot boast that I had the support of the state, however, I have never worked on the expense of social projects. However, on the contrary, and what I would like to suggest to all of us, I agree that the JLS law will come in line, but also everything we do now and what we will do in this new law belongs to our citizens. I've taken the discretionary right of my colleague Schucker. You may be in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to move forward with the work, next to the individual debate representative Mr. Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as this proposal has been said many times today, is not a comprehensive reform of the social care system, or social policy. That is, of course, something that is just waiting for us and where it seems to me that in this debate there is a political will to go in this direction me as representing the interests of citizens and citizens of Samobor's worldly region where the backbone and local economies make up more than 1500 craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Of course, I also support one direction where social policy reforms will be part of a comprehensive reform that will make our economy concrete, and yet from one if you want a democratic position where society will combine because this principle of solidarity will also be affirmed for those who need it most, on the other hand and personal responsibilities. But such a comprehensive approach is not today on the benches, not for today's debate, but for this second proposal that goes according to emergency procedure. Dr. Reiner, on behalf of the HDZ Club, has already made all the remarks the club has on this proposal, so I'm not going to repeat that we're using time rationally. However, I would like to mention that there is one doubt that the purpose of this urgency is not really this policy or the intention of reducing some people, or that this change is not just the basis for the appointment of new administrative councils and so-called newly-like ones or on another line of people. The suspicion was mentioned shortly before the Social Care Centre case of Samoborski Lug and here, as you know, the ministry, by the decision of Minister Opačić, tried to replace members of the board overnight. So there was a complaint, and in the new decision, it was again tried to do so, in one case and another, by law or by law, it was not even mentioned in the correct article of the law. Here I am, and I have sent my parliamentary question to the government and to the resolution ministry, and it seems to me that the dubioza has now been cleared that it has not been seen that this is not the way to be done. And as far as I'm concerned, if the information is correct, the ministry has withdrawn such a decision or annulled the previous decisions so as not to pass the law of the removal of members of the board of directors. And of course there was one let's wake up here one attempt to bring new people not even from Samobor. Simply because Samobor could find them hard to find, because as I mentioned absolutely all the political forces in Samobor, you know that there is HDZ in opposition, I also talked to the city authorities where the authorities and SDP and HNS, the mayor of the HSS ranks, and everyone is satisfied with the work of the centre and the director and would not want that one shift. That's why this suspicion exists, and I'd like it to be made clear the same that the urgency of this proposal is not one cover to bring about some accelerated changes and shifts. In my view, it will be a test of the implementation of this proposal because most of them have the right to vote, but of course we will have to observe what implementation will be and there will be no political reckonings or any other than to respect the profession. Thank you very much. Here I have tried to be rational in using my time, and I hope the Ministry in implementing this will do the same rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5281	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mr. Representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5282	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow MP, co-workers with a happy Women's Day, of course. I don't know why we talk so much about it and it's the basis of my replica whether someone's going to change or not and it's going through that suspicion all the time. In fact, here it's about whether the service level will be maintained qualitatively. And I'm telling you that until now, funds have been invested in local self-government units in the quality of social care. It was either aids or aids that were one-off, multiple, of course, following the decision of the city council or representative bodies of local self-government, heating and so on. for scholarships, for newborns, for everyone, and also for organizing regiments and other cuisines. So everything seems to me here we're just going back to a system where someone shouldn't be changed if he's doing his job qualitatively and qualityly. So, you shouldn't object to that. And the rest of you look so far it's been a little too much to continue to centralize the system and it's being led right to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5283	Thank you. We'll hear a reply to Mr. Davor Stier's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my esteemed colleague, I've expressed that suspicion. I assure you that the suspicions are shared by members of other political options in the city of Samobor. I mentioned what this suspicion was based on because there have been these attempts over the past few weeks, and that's exactly what we want to prevent. So it's possible it won't be like that. I'll be very happy not to hear it today. But there is this suspicion that there is so here in the city that you know exactly the names of people who are outside Samobor who were meant to come there, who would be the new director. Whether it is true or not, I would be very glad that it is not true, that people who have done well so far enjoy the support of local self-government to continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5285	Thank you. Next up for debate, individual representative Mr Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5286	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Assistant Minister Ledinsky with valuable associates. Here is my duty to actually address or to talk about this law of social care, in fact, about some things that are not good. First, they are completely excluded from all relevant experts in this area as well as representatives of the academic community, primarily here I think of the study centre of social work as the most relevant which is definitely not good. It is argued that the legislative proposal is mainly based on the same specifics on which the system has been incorporated until the current law is passed with significant improvements and that new knowledge and methods of working with the user are respected. However, it is quite the opposite because the bill is mainly based on the applicable law, taking over certain provisions of the previous Law on Social Welfare, and the bill completely excludes all provisions relating to new knowledge and theories of assistance and users, and returns to the old... approach in which the user plays a passive role, and the social care system itself is fully responsible for solving the life problems of users. This is in complete contrast with all strategic documents signed by the Republic of Croatia as well as a project to develop a social care system. What I would further like to say is incorrectly that the new law better regulated the principles of social care because the principles of important concepts, certain rights and social services are introduced as newspapers in the current law and are fully copied from the old law. It is also an incorrect claim that the existing law did not ensure the implementation of the expected effects because the law was only in force for 8 months, and institutions at the county level were formed only in November last year. And it cannot be assessed professionally over a period of 2 months by the way or any problems in the functioning of the office while at the same time this decision by the applicant or the re-design of the institution to social care centres, of course without an impact assessment, which will cost taxpayers new additional 3 million kunas. It is incorrect that problems in the functioning of the institutions are caused by the uneven size of the county area and by the number of inhabitants because they are in the same way set up the Centres for Social Care that are territorially distributed in such a way that they are also unequal to the area and the number of inhabitants such as Zagreb and Split, Makarska, Imotski, Nasice, Hvar which have the same status and jurisdiction. The proposal actually returns to the old structure without previous analysis and suggestions for change. It is also incorrect that the existing service system has made citizens inaccessible and significantly more expensive. On the contrary, all the powers in the first degree that had previously had social care centres now have branches, and in the institutions are performing joint operations at the level of the county and the plan and analysis and social planning and the development of networks at the level of the local community and human beings themselves. The existing law also provides for the possibility of setting up offices that should operate on the principle of mobile teams in order to make services more accessible to users, all with the aim of preparing for gradual administrative and fiscal decentralisation, for which you will have to recognise the need for additional resources. In an explanation of the law-making process, he calls for decentralisation of new proposals, there is not a single new provision that provides for decentralisation of systems and from funds. The basis for the support aid is once again linked to the government's decision rather than to the poverty line. This is also contrary to the World Bank guidelines. The proposal for a new law as a newspaper also cites the promotion of employment of job-efficient users, help to maintain and clearly define cooperation between the Social Care Centre and the Employment Office by decision-making ministers, although this is already regulated by the existing law. And there is no newspaper, and as a result of the two-year IPA project, the Protocol on Cooperation between the Employment and the Centre for Social Care has also been drawn up in force. There are a few more concerns. And final. Such a bill did not create preconditions for further development and reform of the social care system, but the reform was in fact stopped, and the current proposals are contrary to the strategic documents that the Republic of Croatia is signatories instead of introducing a new concept of work and users and perspectives of the introduction of quality standards as well as the obligations of licensing, professional training and the implementation of professional supervision by professional chambers. The bill of law returns as I said in... the access and passive role of users, while at the same time all responsibility, i.e. the decision on the direction of the development of social care activities, is given exclusively to a forward ministry and is definitely centralisation, not to prepare for decentralisation, as stated in the reasoning of the draft law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5287	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. We have two closing words on behalf of the clubs. For the first time, MP Branko Vuksic called on behalf of Croatian Labourists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5288	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. It is necessary to create conditions for a social just state, not to multiply centres for social care, centres for helping an increasing number of citizens. Soon there will be two types of citizens in Croatia if we do not build a social state. We will have privileged citizens such as Ivica Mudrinic, who earns a daily average salary, we will have other, other citizens who will be on welfare. So the poor and the rich. We should be fighting here in the Parliament more for the social state, not for the social status of citizens. Now a few words about difficulties in achieving the rights of users in welfare centres. We got a few e-mails during the debate about this law. Most of them all agree that those who work in welfare centres that the law is unarranged, that the law should be corrected and that the law should not be adopted by emergency procedure. Very weak connection of the department inside the center. There are three or four departments in the centers – Admission department, Department for Monetary Refunds, Department for Adults, Department for Children, Youth and Family. If a person is to exercise a right, he must first tell his story in the reception office. Then he goes for a cash fee or a one-time aid to another department and tells his story. If, for example, divorces go to the Department of Children, Youth and Family, while problems from the adult domain are handled by the fourth department. Specializing in the department wouldn't be a bad idea if your departments were networked together or if there was a common database. Instead, the subject is still in a large majority of water paper and the exchange of information between professional workers is greatly difficult. For this reason, the user is faced with repeating his story suddenly, and no social worker has complete insight into his case. This means that the specialisation of the department came into force before the basic conditions for the implementation of that specialisation were met. In this way, the user is forced to take an exhausting walk between departments. A division like this in three or four departments would work if there was a network. But there is no network of data within the department of a single center or between several centers. There is also no common database at the level of one centre and even less state level. Social care centres are not connected to any of the public administration offices. Courts especially the Earth and Book Department, Tax Administration and very important neither with the Matrix born nor dead. The fees are paid to the deceased, no insight into the property or change in the property. There is no connection with the Croatian Employment Service and other institutions. Everything is based on information obtained from users. The centers are losing an awful lot of resources, there's no possibility of automatic change. The centre of each paper must separately extract or send the user to remove it. There is no information connection within a centre between several centres and the absence of any connection i.e. It shall take into account the databases led by the other authorities of the state administration to further bureaucratise and make it difficult for the user to exercise his rights and even threatens his dignity. The emergency procedure of passing this law is wrong. The rules change too often, a large system of social care is difficult to adapt to, and the question is how much it has been done to comply with other regulations. Several times recently it has been invested in informing the system, and the system is in the information view of the coma. Where did he end up with the money, in whose pocket? It did not appear that information was being invested either, but information was being lied about. The Labour Club will not support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5289	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the Croatian Retirement Party club, representative of Mr Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5290	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. The Croatian Party of Retirement also took due note of all aspects and all the reasons why this law has come into emergency proceedings, i.e. in this way before the Croatian Parliament and we have found that there is simply a valid reason for urgency, which is that the existing, or current law further bureaucratises and centralises the system and that this structure does not go in the direction in which social care should go, and that is certainly in the future information, decentralisation, that social service is given to those who are really needed, and not those who are resourceful. We are with due attention, although we also believe that when there is a new amendment or when there is a new law depends on how you prepare the concept, it is certain that this law must go into first and second reading, therefore in a regular procedure, that the social council must therefore and all associations and all users, the representatives of the users must declare and then make a more complete and long-term solution because this law belongs to the category of laws that should be adopted in the Croatian Parliament and should not be subject to any change after the change of each political structure in the Croatian Parliament, or in the government. This should be a law for a long, long time, and it can only be if it gets hit by a solid foundation. Of course, this law we believe today has been passed and we are all aware of some shortcomings and will continue to have them, but this must be resolved in the preparation of new or amendments and additions to this law. What I have personally noticed is that we have 80 centres for social care and 25 branches in Croatia, that each has practically every centre has its own administrative council, that there are five members, that you cannot ask for responsibility from members unless you at least reimburse them for travel expenses or give them some compensation for their work and their care. So it's just one question of mine whether all social work centres have to have a board of five members, or if it could go through with three members? Just to rationalise management costs. We also have one illogicality that remains for the directors of the family centre to be appointed minister, and that the Administrative Council appoints the Director of the Social Care Centre which seems a little illogical to us, but we know that the tendency is to integrate the family centre into future centres of social care and we understand our intention. We gave our pain to pass this law, we showed one effort to read it nicely and to prepare 8 amendments. Most of them are of nomotechnical nature and I think it corrects the expression, and there are also two amendments to the content of nature and I hope that the promoter of this amendment will accept. Finally, the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will support the adoption of the Social Care Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5291	Thank you. Do you want to go ahead with the Proposer? ... Finally, yes. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Assistant Minister, Deputy Minister pardon, Darko Ledinski. Here you go, Mr. Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5292	So here's the part I'm not going to look at specifically, when it comes to function, because here's the thing, I come from the profession. I am sorry that some of the MPs and MPs who have expressed great desire and asked a number of questions here I am not in a position to answer them specifically when it comes to the home support system, etc., but I hope there will be opportunities. Because usually when people show interest and question then here's the question I'd be very glad to have answered, but I'll skip that part because there's no point in answering those who aren't present. But what I certainly want to say is that I want to thank you on behalf of the ministry, the new Ministry of Social Policy of the Youth, and we will often repeat that, proud of the fact that we have all created the conditions that there is a ministry where social policy is in one place where we are not an addition, a pendant or a surplus but that is how the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows and thus very clearly shows its definition of socially sensitive groups and towards the general development of the social system that we have heard a lot about today and in general about the creation of social policy. When it comes to our roofing, fundamental, most significant law, the Social Care Act, it is certainly after two months of what we have prepared daily is not ideal. Some of the MPs and MPs said it was a fire law. We might as well call it that, because it puts out the fire in the social system in people we often mentioned today by the most socially sensitive groups that don't have time to wait, don't be angry with first reading, second reading, third reading. They should have been helped yesterday. What I would certainly like to say is that we do not transfer this bill to units of local and regional administrations and self-government, so this bill does not create any additional obligation. But as this bill also follows the budget that has been passed, we actually agree to it in some way, and I will once again, this law finally, this law is a step forward, not a step back, because this law finally provides the conditions for us to have a database of our users and potential users this year, that it does not last five years and even less to cost 40 million kuna. YES this year based on exactly that and cooperation with all the partners in making that new law, which we will begin to produce the moment this Law is passed, I hope tomorrow morning. And give enough opportunity and time to all interested to participate actively in it precisely with intent, as Mr. MP Hrelja said to be the Law above politics, this Government or those, rather than the law of the profession, or the law of the most socially endangered groups. He'll appear before the Parliament I don't know when. The moment that we are ready to come before the MPs and MPs after all the remarks, after talking to all those who have something to say about it, with the text we almost want to call ideal in the way you talked about it. That's the law I'm talking about. What we had to pass this we will say fire law is that after many years of halted decentralisation and after the deinstitutionalisation that everyone advocates, and at this point we had to put aside some decisions of the current law so that the system of fostering in Croatia 50 years of excellent development and which is also part of self-employment would not come into question because this Law which is in force and this system came into question. This law, which I hope will no longer apply today, and that the new law will apply, this law has given us a problem of how we're going to take care of children from 0 to 7 years old or I'm going to say up to 7 years old. So the most vulnerable group of socially sensitive people, because the law that is in force today is an extremely difficult and long-term and complicated child to place in an institution, and we all know well that we do not have enough specialized foster parents and family accommodation. And not to be confused, that a child is always a place in his mother's family. When everything's okay. If a child is threatened has an advantage over family because it is completely helpless then it is the place for him to be in something closest to his own family, a specialised foster family. But if you don't have such families, if the child can't function in his family and if the law that we're talking about is not right, you can't quickly protect the child, put him in an institution temporarily until you find him the most quality accommodation, then there's a reason for urgency in changing such laws, if nothing else. Here, there's probably some symbolism, there's still a lot of issues, but what we should certainly point out is that the bill that lies ahead of you has not reduced any social rights, and that was one of the basic conditions that we have set ourselves, we must not reduce any social rights. Everything we've had a chance to listen carefully to will certainly be an inspiration that we'll need tomorrow morning to start working on everything I've said and probably has some symbols in today's date, so on an international day of women, the day I believe a new Social Care Act will be passed because it's precisely the female population that often comes from the most vulnerable groups of people. It is in the women's population that the most prompt and urgent response should be made and adequate protection should then, with these red roses, I believe that it is best to give one law and conditions to those people who are often exposed to dangers and risks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5293	Thank you. There was no correction. The debate on the text of the law is over, the vote will be held at 3 p.m., and until then I'll set a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5294	Now we move on to a statement on the final proposal for social care law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. Fifty. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HSU, so I would ask that the representative of the proposings Mr Darko Ledinski, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth be made aware of the amendments whether he accepts it. Let's go with the Legislative Committee first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5295	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposer shall adopt amendments to the Legislative Committee as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5296	Thank you. Amendments to the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5297	When it comes to amendments of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, the Proposer shall accept, by order, all amendments other than the last amendment to Article 117.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5298	Thank you very much. Please make it clear after the submission of the applicant for the amendment. Mrs. Vishny Fortuna, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5299	So, I would like to make a statement about the amendment to Article 117. I am convinced that there is a good intention here and I hope that in the coming period we will have much more opportunity to discuss it. And that's why we're giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5300	Thank you very much. So now the situation is clear, and we can go to a statement on the law, i.e. the amendments that have been accepted and have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most votes, 75 votes in favour, 31 against and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Social Care Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. If you have any objections on, you'll settle it later with the technical service. Yeah. Thank you very much. Now we're going to discuss the next item of the agenda. We have a point called - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Extortion, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by 4 committees, for legislation, for the judiciary, for the Constitution, for the Rules of Procedure and the political system and for spatial planning and construction. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Ms Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we propose amendments and additions to the Law on Extremities and amendments relating to the provisions of the Law on Extraordination, which were added to the amendments and amendments of 2001. In particular, these provisions to which the proposal applies have been introduced into the Law on Exclusion as a transitional solution in order to ensure adequate judicial protection of the fundamental rights to which the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms is bound. Namely, the right of ownership in which the authorities are affected is a fundamental human right in respect of which we were obliged to ensure a contradictory debate before the law established by impartial courts, as we are bound by Article 6. European Conventions. Since we did not have an appropriate solution to the transitional provisions, the issue of exorcising the court dispute was resolved before the county courts. Since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts has established administrative courts as courts in charge of deciding on the actions of individual decisions of the public legal authorities and since administrative courts have begun their work on 1 January 2012, we propose that these administrative proceedings be given to the administrative courts, or that the Law on Jurisdictions be amended in a manner to delete these transitional provisions governing the jurisdiction of the county courts. In the sense that we have also laid down a transitional provision by which the county courts received cases relating to the fines and have not been legally completed by the competent administrative courts and completed by the provisions of the relevant laws what we are, this amendment will not require any specific financial costs because, as I said, the administrative courts have already begun to work, and the proposal for the adoption of the Law by emergency procedure is based on the fact that we are now in the same situation that the same type of proceedings are being dealt with by courts of different kinds which is inadmissible and for the sake of legal certainty and in order to comply with all procedural provisions, we consider it necessary to regulate this matter urgently. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5303	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5304	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, it is a law governing the protection of human rights arising from ownership. In the Croatian legal system it is logical that ownership is the basis here to just try it on several articles from the Constitution to confirm. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Constitution of paragraph 1 states that everyone has the right to the law established by an independent and impartial court and, within a reasonable period, to protect their fundamental rights. In Article 48 of the Constitution, the right of ownership is guaranteed and ownership is binding upon the owner. In Article 50 of the Constitution, it is possible and be careful now, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to limit, so there are only two reasons for limiting the rights of ownership that is the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the safety of the Republic of Croatia. Limit the right of ownership with compensation. The fourth article of the Constitution is Article 52, which determines that countries, forests and other treasures are of special interest to the Republic of Croatia and have special protection of the Republic of Croatia. TO protect ownership during the transition period until we have built a legal system, or built a judicial system, until we have established administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia, we have entrusted jurisdiction over the protection of ownership with the law of the county courts. Since the Law on Administrative Courts or the Law on Courts established administrative courts, it was necessary, accordingly, to amend this Law on Jurisdiction and jurisdiction over protection against an independent body to entrust administrative courts. Thus, the administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia will decide to authorise the aftermath of the administrative procedure, according to the second-degree administrative solution. Therefore, the transitional and final provisions determine that the cases and disputes that are being conducted in the county court will be transferred without delay to newly established administrative courts in order to continue the procedure under the Law on Administrative Disputes. Of course, here it would be interesting to hear what the real situation is with cases, expropriations and how many disputes are already in front of the county court. I don't think it's an easy procedure, and if it's true my situation that there are now about 700 disputes, with other administrative disputes on our four courts, it's going to be a big burden and maybe a brake, so we should get a report on how things are going very quickly. Because this Law also provides that it will be decided on the basis of oral and direct public debates, and I still seem to have noticed that it is a council and not an individual judge that is a further burden in resolving these issues. However, it should be commended that it is about building a legal system logical in accordance with the principles of the democratic world, protection is ensured and this law should be supported and expected to speed up its real-life realization and the good success of administrative courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5305	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5306	Mr. President, representatives of the government, distinguished gentlemen of the council. As I quote this part of this argument, I state that the jurisdiction of the county courts under the provisions of Chapter 5a of the Law on Exclusion is contrary to the established jurisdiction of administrative courts under the law on courts and the Law on administrative disputes in order to clearly distinguish them, etc. The jurisdiction of the courts established and the proper application of the applicable legislative provisions shall indicate the need to amend this provision of the law, which is absolutely logical. And in that part, it is certain that the law should be welcomed. But speaking of this expropriation means by the 1990 ’ s we had what we called expropriation, it was clear that it was always necessary for a road to be used for a waterway for a school to take part in someone’s real estate. It always required some general public interest of some higher interest. Clearly, that someone who owned that property should have been fairly compensated. But it wasn't like that, as a rule. It wasn't like that until the '90s, the question of whether it was after the '90s. In a whole series of cases, at least in Istria, where these Pottery Peasants of the Supreme have certainly not received satisfaction, and the question is whether or not tomorrow's cases will be, for example. What we have a chance to track through the media, the Omble case will also be fairly compensated. So expropriation when it's in the public interest absolutely yes, but the performer, the investor, local self-government, the state, someone third is entirely relevant to that someone should be fairly compensated. If that doesn't happen then it's all kind of turning into a kidnapping. The abduction when it was expropriated was happening until the 1990s but at least some factories were being built, some apartments, cities were being built. There were some energy systems built, hotels, but let's face it, the country's owners are always at a loss. Today, "unfortunately" is neither authorized nor "exploited" to be cynical, but nothing in this country is built. I want to believe that we're going to set up an effective system and we're just going to run these public investments and we're going to leave some new value behind that form. What I would like to point out in particular, however, is that in all these cases, it is always worth saying that the past work of generations that acquired the country that had to be given up for the country has to do so. So I am absolutely out of authority where that public interest is established, but in any case, let the owner of the country and pay, in one word, to be deprived. If someone from the other side came through that country, let's say, through conversion, then they can lose everything. If someone was buying land as was the case from farmers when they were now buying state land for 1.3 one 078 08 kunas, etc. And there is water to pass over the land, and let the road power be made clear to him, that he may be given another land; but let us not let these individuals blackmail you. I don't know if it's possible to revalue it now, probably not, but it should also be taken into account. He who lost property in the nationalisation process as President Josipovic said recently in Jerusalem should return to him. Clearly this is not the subject of this law but this is in some way the position of the Constitutional Court that there is no difference between domestic citizens or foreigners. So wherever there's a general interest in a road for a school for a railroad for a water line, it doesn't matter, nobody has the right to make it clear that they have the right to object, etc., but as much as it is today that some individuals of the jag are urbanizing them so that they can sell, on the other hand, people don't want special burdens on their properties means to load them with a water current or I don't know what installations. It's absolutely logical because nobody in their house wants some mud industry in their city not to listen to the sound of some turbine or the huk some stands don't think of those cheerleading stands that should especially be regulated, I thought of those turbines for electricity etc. But it is clear to all of us that without roads without industry that without trafostations, water stores industry etc. There is simply no survival to this nation no progress. And therefore absolutely to the Act of Exclusion. But once again, I want to end up with someone who's "executed" by a piece of real estate or that real estate burdens some of that someone with a burden and needs to be properly compensated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5307	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5308	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Exclusion for Reasons and, in fact, the harmonisation of the law of parallel laws, which is necessary in order to ensure the proper functioning of the entire legal system. Namely, what's this about? The current provisions of the Law on Exclusion in the Administrative Procedure adopted a first-degree and second-degree solution, constitutional protection against the second-degree settlement was set before the County Court as a binding consideration of the complexity and importance of this administrative case as obligatory judicial protection. Since we have also passed a new Law on Administrative Procedure, but also a new Law on Administrative Disputes and the Law on Courts, which have been established by administrative courts, no longer through a single Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, but in two stages of the trial but also the establishment of 4 administrative courts, the Court of First Instance and the Administrative Court of... Jurisdiction and in order to facilitate contradiction in administrative trial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this proposal is a logical follow-up to the work of the structure, the work of the administrative courts and the way in which this amendment is amended and complemented. It's about a very small change and another change. Therefore, compliance with the regulations in the area of construction, or the Construction Act, which we also feel is to be harmonised. Therefore, these amendments and additions suggest that no longer be drawn up as a necessary document, that it is not an obligation to apply a copy from a detailed planning plan for the reason that such spatial-planned documentation is no longer produced but remains an obligation to apply a valid location permit. And so far, the law contains a powerful location permit. Given how much we're all, how much we all support investment speeds and try to cut that deadline here, I just have one slight doubt. The local authorisation shall be an administrative act. In the administrative procedure, acts generally become the executive day of finality. So, second-degree solutions. The power of attorney means the completion of the proceedings before the Administrative Court, since we know how long these proceedings take. The question is what deadline is needed to obtain a powerful local authorisation in the event of a administrative dispute. But from the point of view of security and the protection of citizens' rights, of course this would be more correct only is the question of the balance between the length of the duration in practice and then the possibility of moving into investment. Here's just to think. The second article, of course, replaces jurisdiction for judicial protection from county courts to the local administrative court. And it is determined that the extradition procedures are as urgent as they were in the current law. Here, all these changes are to be supported. But of course with some I would say the corrections of this legal text such as that amendment of the Committee on Legislatives which, if I understand correctly, the Proposer will accept. Therefore, in Article 4 of the transitional provisions governing what is already before the county courts, which clearly and unequivocally determine that, that the county courts will, without delay, and in practice it is already known to be immediately, and there is no concern that the county courts will not be eager to resolve these cases and to hand them over to administrative courts. So, without delay, they will be given to competent administrative courts. And another question that's being made clear to the other one is clearly corrupt. Therefore, there will be no doubt that these courts are then obliged to complete these proceedings under the provisions of the new Law on Administrative Disputes and that, that the courts are bound to decide on the basis of oral, direct and public debates. Therefore, they are required by this Law to conduct an argument on the principle of contradiction. I think that some of the amendments that contain the comments we made on the Committee on Justice are also committed, which is in the second article amending Article 21a. The second, which now states that judicial protection in the extradition procedure, shall be ensured before local courts. There is a need to replace this plural with a single, therefore with a local administrative court, so that it doesn't cause doubt that at the same time it might be competent to have some two administrative courts. This amendment will resolve the question, and the provision of this article, which is complemented and the new paragraph of the third one, which reads: "Operation procedures before local administrative courts are urgent." In particular, on the basis of the questionnaire’s request, whether the applicant’s intention was to establish emergency procedures only before the courts or to establish the urgency as it was under current law that these procedures were urgent at each stage of their own, and at that administrative stage, in the administrative procedure. It is the will of the promoters to be urgent throughout the proceedings, both administratively and courtly, and that is how it should be done in law. And therefore, I will propose an amendment on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, so that the words "in front of local administrative courts" are deleted here and that the provision remains, therefore, that the extradition procedures are urgent in each of their own, in the whole procedure both administrative and judicial. Here's why this is actually a alignment with the already existing and passed law and that here it is now fully ensured, so because it's a really sensitive issue of expropriation. Therefore, the withdrawal of the right of ownership which has been established as a constitutional category. And that indeed a citizen must have full protection in administrative proceedings, as well as full judicial protection in two degrees and through full, through contradiction in court proceedings. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5309	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, MP Mr. Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5310	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues. This is one perfectly logical material. And for this reason there is also a consensus between the current rapporteurs on whether or not to support this bill. It is, in fact, the direct consequence of the entry into force of the new Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Courts. The practice so far with extradition is a practice which has been given under the jurisdiction of county courts as courts with full jurisdiction that can ensure a contradictory discussion of the public in the process, all due to the obligations of course made under the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Human Freedoms, Article 6. - Right to a fair trial. However, of course we also know that, even when it comes to extradition, there are mostly bad experiences relating to the problems of achieving urban cohesion as a fundamental assumption for the realization of certain projects of public interest, the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We also know that individual cases have been withdrawn through courts in the Republic of Croatia for years. With the entry into force of these new laws on 1 January 2012, we came to the legal situation that there is a possibility of parallel treatment in the county courts and in administrative courts, which is unacceptable because it does not provide legal certainty. For this reason, it was necessary to adopt this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, which is subject to the system of administrative courts as courts which are now based on these new laws, the laws which have entered into force have full jurisdiction and therefore ensure legal action which is in accordance with the Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Human Freedoms, Article 6 and the principle of fair trial. For these reasons, the Croatian People's Party will support the adoption of this law. We consider it a step in the construction of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, a step forward when it comes to expropriation as a very important mechanism in the functioning of the rule of law, and we also believe that the legislators and the Croatian Parliament as a home where laws are passed will still have to work to build a legal system, and even when it comes to the exemption mechanism for its better implementation. And what's good and why we're going to support this law, of course, is that the urgency of the procedure is prescribed because the experience in this context has been pretty bad for us so far. There, the Croatian People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5311	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative, Mr Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5312	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At first, I will say that the HDSSB club will support this law, but not in a way that we can talk about in praises about this law or the practice so far that has been related to the current Law of Authorisation. Also for the practice itself which was considered to be self-execution because we believe that there are a number of gaps and a series of illogicalities that have been in practice and in the subject matter of execution itself. Here is really an important thing that is changing to abolish the jurisdiction of the County Court and that the whole procedure is being passed to the Administrative Court, but what we would like to point out is that here is the very urgency of the procedure which has not been appropriated in certain cases, but regardless of the enormous interest of the Republic of Croatia, and regardless of how all owners as citizens of the Republic of Croatia should have been protected in the overall process of so far, there has been a speedy act here, except in certain exceptions, and this was related to the Golf Act with which it was connected and a series, I do not want to say that golf courses are not needed in Croatia, but this law has also been related to a number of failures and I would say a series of criminal actions. It was also dealt with by an emergency procedure before the elections to start certain shares in the construction of Corridor VC, especially around Đakov, where Croatian highways in a period of 7 days have ruled out one company here in the city of Đakov where until today an administrative dispute has not been resolved and where the deprived person and the suspended owner of that land is not yet able to charge what was even by contract and agreement with the Croatian highways because the procedure has not been completed. I say first of all, the urgency of the procedure and what this law does not define and the possibility of exclusion because this is not about what communists were doing there after World War II when they were cleaning the Slavonian attics in the troikas, if someone did not want to enter certain cooperatives, this is primarily about the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and it is particularly surprising that there is no proposing here, nor in this law, is it considered only in this narrow sense of state and is only important to the interest of the Republic of Croatia until these changes of law have again been put into the interest of local self-government, as well as regional self-government that interests are not at all put into the law. And it is very difficult to prove that some road, some facility important for increasing the standard of living of citizens in units of local self-government or in regional self-government, is difficult to prove that it is also of greater interest to the Republic of Croatia. So today, you have to be aware, very hard to build certain new county roads, new local roads because simply the owners of that land were offered what was going on especially around Dubbab in Dalmatia when buying land and in some parts of Slavonia when one-off land prices were paid while most citizens received minimum land prices when the building corridor of the VC are looking for enormous amounts for a few dozen squares which they do not use anyway. So we ask that the law be incorporated into the interest of local and regional self-government, that it is precisely local and regional self-government that would not have to prove that one county road connects two municipalities and two villages and of interest to the Republic of Croatia because this procedure is extremely long and very difficult to break through, regardless of what the government has changed to break the relationship that has been in Croatia for 20 years that it is very difficult when someone becomes a minister to get to the minister himself, because it is very quickly losing interest not only in the environment from which he was taking place but loses interest in the problems of local and regional self-government. So it's the first and most important grudge that is related to these amendments and additions to the law. Another thing that definitely needs to be installed in the law to prevent corruption, the possibility of crime, but also to protect the Republic of Croatia, but so far the owner has to determine the body that assesses the value of a particular property, the value of a particular land that is important to the Republic of Croatia. The tax administration used to do so, today authorised judicial assessors do so but I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should determine the competent authorities that will assess certain properties and give more market value so that those entering a possible and possible settlement would not, in a few months or several years, end this under the auspices of the USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office, eventually and in Remetinec if there are still enough seats in it. The next problem, and perhaps the most important problem, is precisely the speedy one that has never been brought to life, and for years, disputes are being drawn not only in the county, but they will probably be dragged into administrative courts unless they really bring together the speed of the procedure and the urgency of the procedure itself. What may be important here to mention is that certain laws that did not have in the previous meeting, which had no regard for the organic laws, which had not qualified majority that had changed and established courts and that many particularly municipal courts had lost not only their seat but also the possibility of such cases, since, for example, the municipal court in Djakov, one large part of the court or all the criminal cases were transferred to a far smaller court that had no adequate space, and since it had an exceptional lack of cases, therefore criminal proceedings are now being conducted in Nasice, although from Djakov to Nasica only drives one bus and only once a day which increases and huge costs to the citizens themselves. Also, the competent state attorney's office has been transferred from Djakova and is now based in Nasice. Here, since this is a matter of this judiciary we are also asking that an emergency procedure be re-amended to the Law on Court Courts, because it was indeed a scandal over scandals and not only passed the Đakova Court in such a way but also a series of other courts in the Republic of Croatia. The next problem that is directly related to this Law on Exclusion and is not defined by law is precisely the property of the Republic of Croatia which also behaves as individual owners of certain properties located on the road possibly now on the highway for Dubrovnik or from Osijek towards the Hungarian border, or there from the Middles to the Sava, it is precisely the Republic of Croatia that owns huge areas of land that are in spatial plans and general urban but above all spatial plans have entered the building zones of local self-government units and regardless of the number of requirements it is therefore about the possibility of expanding industrial zones, recreational facilities, transport infrastructure corridors and, regardless of the number of requirements, and also this Government that have been directed right to authorise the Republic of Croatia itself and the transfer of that land to local self-government units until today, I hope that this will not be so other than that it will be before the former Prime Minister's election before the very elections, when the local authorities in particular, in fact, because it would have been made by the state of Croatia. I simply as mayor of this city can say thank you to the government for such a gift but under such conditions we cannot accept that gift. Unfortunately, this government does not show any hearing that this problem is being solved, and there is a lack of space, and this also showed the case of all these State Audit reports where the ministries acted as drunk innkeepers, so they lived in rented spaces at very high prices where they could probably make three new Mark squares and three new government seats. So what we're looking for as the HDSSB Club is that since these are amendments and additions to the law that only the Justice Department understands everything I've said and installs into new amendments and additions to the law or to the new law because even the Republic of Croatia does not behave in accordance with the standard of good lord but also stops here in this case the development of units of local and regional self-government. and what we are specifically looking for is the urgency of this process because neither the citizens nor the Republic of Croatia but also the units of local and regional self-government that must be incorporated into the law because they too have an interest in the general social interest not only of the Republic of Croatia must be incorporated into this. And this is the body that is related to the value assessment of the property that must be marketable because every owner has the right to a fee which cannot be like that fee that was valid during socialism not only when the attics were cleaned and when they were built in many units of local self-government new housing blocks where practically the owner who might have owned us in Slavonia 10 hectares of land that was taken away from him for that construction did not receive a fee that was enough to buy for himself what was once his construction site. So, I support this law, but we ask that since these are only changes that are very quickly going to one full amendment to this law where and in the general interest the units of local and regional self-government will be involved and thus decentralisation will be achieved but which should be followed in any case by that fiscal one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5313	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're starting an individual debate. Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic applied for the debate first. She's not losing her right to debate. Mrs Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5314	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister. Here is the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Authorisation Act. It is indeed necessary for the clear demarcation of the jurisdiction of the established courts, as the jurisdiction of the county courts under the provision of Chapter 5a of the Law on Execution is contrary to the established jurisdiction of administrative courts under the Law on Courts and the Law on Administrative Disputes. Under the current provisions, county courts are in charge of handling claims against second-degree solutions on the enforcement of the Law on Administrative Disputes. Since administrative courts are full of jurisdiction, courts have the right and the duty to contradict and carry out and evaluate the evidence on their own, the conditions for adequate legal protection in the handling of cases against second-degree extradition solutions have therefore been met. What is very important is that these changes are avoided from judging two courts on the same matter, and in order to satisfy Article 6. The Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and allow for a contradictory discussion and the determination and factual situation in the cases of extradition shall be waived from the principle that the administrative court is already settling in a non-public session that the administrative court decides on the basis of an oral direct and public debate in the administration of the matter of exemption, which is indeed of interest because of the complexity of the issue and the protection of ownership. What is good is that the procedures of exorcism are of an urgent nature, this provision of urgency is extremely important because we know from the practice that these procedures are very long term. Therefore, because of all this forwards that I have stated, I feel it is necessary to support these changes and indeed by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5315	Thank you. Ms. Djurdzica Plancic's representative applied for the debate next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5316	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the hearing, I will say that I support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws because they are being dealt with by jurisdiction in judicial protection in extradition proceedings now entrusted to local administrative courts or to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia instead of the County Court and for which we now have legal conditions under the Law on Courts and the Law on Administrative Disputes. This shall ensure adequate legal protection in the handling of complaints against second-degree solutions to be granted before administrative courts. The adoption of these amendments is particularly important for cases which have been resolved in the transitional period before the now incompetent county court. I will not further engage in the explanation of these amendments but will be encouraged by my own experience as the experience of fellow unit leaders on the islands and on the coast to take advantage of the occasion and to warn of the urgent need for further amendments to this law in order to resolve the dubiosis of Croatian legislation and of the judiciary that are burdensome and even question the possibility of several units of local self-government in the area of Dalmatia. Since I'm not a lawyer, I'm going to try to explain as easily and briefly as possible a very complex and difficult problem from a different point of view. It is believed that in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia definitely abandoned social property with all the legal... of this institute. According to the Expropriation Act, if the general social interest of ownership was established, the right to ownership was taken away from the owners for the benefit of social property. The exploited owner had the right to a fair fee which was determined in a special administrative procedure and paid for by the person who acquired the right to use management and availability on the property. According to the Law on Building Land, all building land within the settlement was forced into social property by law. If the construction land was not built, the owner maintained the right to use... in a special management procedure the land did not be taken from the property of the former owner i.e. Until I get... After the deposit, the municipality was able to assign land in a special administrative procedure to another person who then acquired the right to use as a rule for the construction of an object. The municipality had its own transmission function in the transfer of the right of use from the former owner to the new user since the direct transfer was prohibited. The former owner... had the right to a fair fee which was determined under the Expropriation Act and the compensation paid by the municipality, in accordance with Article 37 of the Construction Land Act. On the other hand, a new user had to pay the municipality, among other things, a fee for former owners. The law of expropriation came into force in 1994, and then the Expropriation Act ceased to apply. The Property Act and other real rights entered into force in '97. And then he stopped the Law on Building Land. By the entry into force of this Act, he definitely ceased to exist social property over real estate in the Republic of Croatia, so the function of the municipality now units of local self-government as transmissions between the holders of that right in its traffic. If the interest of the Republic of Croatia of real estate is declared, it may be granted for some purpose, and the ownership of the same property is acquired by another user of the authority. The market price fee is always due to the pay of the beneficiary of the exemption, so the one who acquires the property in the extradition. So much for the laws, and now a little bit about practice. In the current administrative and judicial practice in cases where a deposit has been made under the Law on Building Land, compensation shall be determined to former owners according to Articles 46 and 47. The law on the exemption which stipulates that the provisions of the Law on Exclusion shall apply to the commencement of the procedure for fixing the compensation in which a decision of power has not been taken until the entry into force of the Law on Execution. However, Article 37 shall continue to apply. The law on building land under which the compensation is due to pay the municipality. In that way, there is no real or legal difference in passive legitimacy in the payment of compensation. Where an expropriation or payment of compensation is made, the user who has acquired the property shall pay. I arrive where a deposit is paid by units of local self-government whose property is no matter who is assigned to it and who has acquired ownership after the entry into force of the Property Act and other real rights. This kind of dualism has no legal technical or legal economic justifications, and for the result there is also a kind of unfounded wealth on the part of new users now the owner who has acquired the property and is not obliged to pay it, but also, for him, is obliged to do the unit of local self-government and, contrary to all the general legal principles of civil law. I believe that the entry into force of the cited Articles 47 and 46. The Act of Execution was defined as a lex posteritor of Article 37 of the then still applicable Law on Building Land which was and remained contrary to the basic principle of the Law on Execution, which is that the compensation of an authorised person is paid by the person who acquires property on the basis of the execution. In particular, the absurd application is exclusively one paragraph of Article 37 of the former Law on Building Land, and that is exclusively in relation to the passive legitimacy of the unit of local self-government after that law has ceased to apply as a whole. Such illogical and unfair treatment of court and administrative practice in my opinion should be concluded in a way that, through amendments and additions to the Law on enforcement, the obligation to pay is always on the part of those who have acquired the property, and that the regulation is applied in the event of a real estate charge... in the application of the former rules on social property building. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The solidarity of the local self-government unit and the acquirer with the right to regress in favour of the local self-government unit could be prescribed, and it would be desirable by law to prescribe the right to choose... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] available until payment of the compensation and fulfilment of the regression obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These proposals have a multiple purpose. First, to improve the legal position of deposited former owners. Second, to make compensation for them is to be borne by one who has acquired property or his successor. And third, remove legal uncertainty in that matter especially in relations between units of local self-government and persons who have acquired real estate. I will illustrate all the seriousness of this issue with a concrete example of my unit of local self-government, the town of Stari Grad, Hvar, which is obliged to pay more than 50 million kuna in multiple proceedings for land that was deposited back in '86. years and assigned to third parties who are now its owners. These third parties refuse in any way to participate in the payment of compensation, and the city is forced against them to conduct long-term and expensive procedures with uncertain outcomes, while on the other hand there is no way of not paying compensation to former landowners who have never been or will be owned by the city. Whether a city with an annual budget of only ten million kunas can bear this burden I think it's too high to elaborate already and you can judge for yourself. I am warning of this serious problem that has been burdening several local self-government units of Dalmatia for many years, and I expect this government to find some way to solve it very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5317	Thank you. Next up for debate, Mr. Igor Chešek's representative. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. No one's reported for questioning anymore. I would like to ask Deputy Minister, Mrs. Sandra Artuković Kunst, on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you, honourable MPs and advocates, for the content debate. I'll repeat what we said in the opening part. So we proposed only procedural changes to ensure proper application of the procedural provisions and prevented the further situation from having two different courts that handle the procedures of the same topic. Just to solve this problem through an emergency procedure and to ensure that these provisions can be applied immediately, we did not engage in what is problematic and what you have now had the opportunity to present here in the Enquirement Act. So, the matter of the material and legal provisions of the Law of Execution will be regulated in a later law, so here we are, and the amendments will be made later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5319	Thank you. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5320	So, first of all, we will enter into the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Privileges, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Peja Grbin and representative Ana Lovrin. I ask that the representative of the proposer, there is Mrs Sandra Artuković Kunst, Deputy Justice Minister, to plead on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5321	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, respected MPs as mentioned in the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Immunity, have been declared to be amendments to the Legislatives Committee. The government is shown not to accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee because it is materially covered by the following amendments. Amendments by the honourable representative of Peja Grbina, the government accepts, and the amendment by the distinguished representatives of Ana Lovrin, the government, also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5322	Thank you very much. You can go. Is the representative or representative of the Legislative Committee staying with the amendments? ... So you're pulling back? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5324	Then we don't have to vote on the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The quorum before, please. First the quorum, although it's visible it's there, but anyway. Let's first determine the quorum. It's registered here on screen 98, up here 109. We'll take it officially because we voted with an electronic 98. But you can tell there's more. So, please, let's get involved and vote on the final bill. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Exclusion. I see some people are asking what law. Thank you. Therefore, I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on emulsion in the text has been unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted with 102 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5325	We move to a new agenda point - Final draft law amending the Customs Service Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 49. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the materials. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'd pray if, hold on a second. Thank you. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, I see that this is Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposed amendments to the Customs Service Act shall discuss the management of the Customs Administration, the way in which the Director is appointed, and the way in which the civil servants are assigned to the posts of the Deputy Director and Assistant Director. It is also prescribed that the Director may have two deputies, and the responsibility of the Deputy Director and Assistant Director, Head of Service and Head of Department in the Central Office is also prescribed. The second deputy is proposed for the reason that the Customs Administration is an administrative organisation within the Ministry of Finance in which more than 3,000 employees and tenants are employed, as well as for the specific large area of work for which the Customs Administration is responsible, which will be carried out in the central office and 17 customs offices, 115 customs offices and 121 customs departments. Moreover, the reason for this proposal to amend the law is to comply with the structure of a regulation on the principles for the internal establishment of the state administration body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5327	Thank you. The representatives of the board do they want to take a word for it? Here you go. Mr. Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5328	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 5th session held on 8 March 2012, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law amending the Customs Service Act with the final proposal for a law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, without discussion, supported the law in question and decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5329	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? There's no one here, all right. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS MP, Mr Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5330	Mr. Chairman of this Deputy Minister of Finance, distinguished gentlemen of the MPs. Yes, as the minister said here, it is literally said that the Customs Service Act discusses the management of the customs administration, the way the director is appointed as well as the way civil servants are deployed to the jobs of deputy directors and assistant directors, etc. So nothing here is controversial, though. Why wouldn't any new government edit, to put it that way, some internal rules of functioning of Customs? The Barisic case, etc., must not happen clearly, but I do not want to talk about it. What I am interested in, however, is this, what will happen to customs officers after 1.07.2013? People are largely, especially those who work at those western border crossings, in panic. People are kind of afraid for their own future. They're afraid they'll have to, for example. either from Istria or the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County or does not matter worse in the event of a move towards BiH, according to Montenegro, towards Serbia. These people need to be understood in some way, they are rightly concerned. You ask the normal question the same where those people take care of you? I guess we should take them somewhere in the state administration. Okay, and the state administration is probably, not likely, but certainly too many, but I think there's got to be somewhere for these customs officers. Whether it's going to be the police, whether it's going to be inspections, whether it's going to be financial bodies I don't know, but it needs to be offered in some way as an honorable option. It is true that many border police officers will likely lose their jobs at those western borders towards Slovenia, according to Hungary. We wanted to go to Europe, tomorrow we will confirm these results of the referendum, that is, these acts, that is, these agreements, but I think we should also take care of these customs officers. It's not just customs, it's their families, then it means that there's both their children, their mothers, their women, I don't know. These people are located somewhere, they have apartments, they have houses, they belong in the middle, they're part of the identity to express myself in that environment. And every one of them, of these people, is my judgment deserves to know today about my future. We here mean in this legal solution we deal with the principal, we deal with deputy directors, assistant directors, but I think we should apostrophe those ordinary people who worked for the Republic of Croatia from there in '91. to date or by 1.07.2013 a huge job. They should already know what will happen to their existences, they should not wait for this in 1.07.2013. A normal question arises if one of them leaves Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, Karlovac, Varazdinska does not matter Zagorska, the path of BiH or the path of Serbia or the road of Montenegro where they will be located along that border? The prime minister, Mr Milanovic, says a few days ago that it is necessary to discuss whether only 2 international border crossings or more should be opened to BiH? I'm absolutely for more of them. BiH citizens should also be able to communicate better via Croatia with Europe. I know very well what the border is, let's say in Istria in spaces that have never been shared in this one mental sense have been done. There, on the 1st of July it will be no more. I know or can imagine what the next day Schengen will mean for BiH citizens mainly those living in Herzegovina, means along the border with the Republic of Croatia. That border will hit them too, I suppose, in the same way that it is, for example. Hit my cheeks when it was established in '91, '92. Now don't take my word for it. However, either way I think that these issues should be opened up by a meaningful debate, and these legal solutions that are of a technical nature are absolutely logical nature because I assume that each government in some way belongs, have the legitimate right to name the structure of individual services in the way they consider it opportunized.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5331	Thank you. No more reports. I'd like to ask the Deputy Minister for Final Address.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr. Caine. What you're actually saying here, we're actually aware of it, we're working on it inside here, there's Mr. Director of Customs Administration, there's intensively conducted negotiations, and within the meaning of Customs itself with trade unions with professional services, we're doing detailed analysis, and we're aware of this all we've said, and that there's one process in front of us that we're going to have to deal with in an adequate way with all services means all people, so that they don't lose their jobs, just like we're going to worry about the business for jobs, and inside the service means people who are adequately trained to be in function within other parts of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5333	Thank you. The debate on the text of the law is over, we will vote when the conditions are met. I suggest we take a 15-minute break and get back to work at 5:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5334	We move to a statement on the final proposal of the Law amending the Customs Service Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 49. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. I note that most of the votes of all MPs are required for adoption, i.e. 76. Thank you. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 26 against and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Customs Service Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5335	1700 hours, we're back to work. The item of the agenda is - Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Spatial Plan of the Northern Velebit National Park The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the materials. The decision-making period shall apply to the second reading of the Laws of 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning representative Anku Mrak Taritas to speak briefly. Here you are, Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5336	... We, as a proposal, will propose to the Parliament to make a decision on the establishment of the Spatial Plan of the North Velebit National Park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you have the opportunity to see we have suggested one small presentation prepared at Power Point so that we all get a little clearer on what we're talking about together. So we're going to go through 15 slides through the Northern Velebit National Park Space Plan and North Velebit National Park itself. So on this first icon that you have the opportunity to see we can detect and see that the Strategy and the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia defines protected spaces which are under special protection of natural and cultural heritage. The same is the area of North Velebit National Park which in '97. When the strategy was made it was still still just the area of nature park. So in 1999 the National Park of Northern Velebit was declared our youngest national park, its area is 109 square km, located in Ličko-Senj County in the area of the town of Senja and on the edge area of the national park there are a total of 9 settlements in which there are thousands of inhabitants. On the next display in this presentation you can see what is the coverage of the space of the National Park North Velebit. So in this one picture, we can see what we're talking about, so it's a park of 17 km, the width of which is between 4 and 10 km, and the altitude is 600, 700 meters to slightly below 1,000 feet above sea level. It's a national park that doesn't have a permanent population. Historically equally, it was not detected that the population lived in the area. Now the basis of a spatial plan of this character is then a series of bases. This is one of the bases you have the opportunity to see is the basis in which the conditions and methods of protection of natural heritage are marked. So that's the background from which we see what protection zones are. Three zones detected. Zone One, it's a very strict zone of protection that's divided into two subgroups. The strictest protection zone is one where there are neither visitors nor can be used in any way is a zone that we protect because it is a fundamental phenomenon why something is declared a national park. Zone 1B is a zone of equally strict protection but it is a zone in which it can occur in terms of scientific or research activity. Zone 2 is an active protection zone. So the same area where very limited movement is not intended for hikers in a larger number or in a greater possibility of coming. We're going to consult a little bit because I don't have the opportunity to spin the presentation myself. Zone 3 is the use zone. So it's a zone that's designed for use where hikers, hikers and all those who visit the national park can come. What we have in this national park is based on the Nature Protection Act and these are four special protected parts. So Hajduki and Rožanski hips are like a strict reserve, then Envy, Balenovac and Zvižanska hair which is a special floral reserve, Visiba which is also a special floral reserve but slightly less protection zone and Velebit Botanical garden which is a monument of park architecture. We have the possibility here, and this is the same base that was so when this spatial plan began to be developed, one of the very important and important bases was the base of the conservatives working on a conservative base. We don't have any specially protected facilities here. However, all cultural heritage sites are in principle local and a number of these facilities are intended for further protection and for further registration according to special law. Likewise, when we talk about the spaces of the national park, it has been established and determined for many years that it would be possible to restore it. So the existing shepherding dwellings that have been abandoned and conservatives have been detected by their analysis and all other experts have determined that they are spaces and procedures or buildings that can be constructed under very strict conditions and with a strict way and detected possibilities that they can be reconstructed. When we talk about the use and purpose of space, therefore, the basic role of such a single spatial plan, so the Spatial Plan of the National Park, is to define the conditions and means of using protection and possibly economic use. So the basic purpose is the forest surface, then the grasslands and pastures. Characteristics of why this is a national park and declared special lawns and pastures are then defined here are these objects which I spoke of, therefore, abandoned buildings, shepherding apartments and buildings that were intended for occasional residence in the function of the activity and it was actually cattle pasture. The main entrances to the park are equally defined, so there are three main entrances to the park and several secondary entrances to the park. Similarly, through the terms and methods of use or the purpose of use it is always in any plan of the first map where we can detect everything that is dictated and marked road infrastructure, building parking areas which are the very entrances to the park and buildings and corridors of other infrastructures. When we talk about the use and purpose of space then this is the space that is intended to be used in terms of economic use, so for cattle. What a public institution is a national park and suggests is to strengthen cattle in such a way that what is a fundamental phenomenon, and these pastures remain and are retained as a fundamental phenomenon in this regard. So, economic use. When I speak it is pasture cattle and exclusively for tourist purposes, but what is important to say these tourists are hikers and hikers. On the edges of the national park is predicted some stronger tourist facilities which would actually be in the function of the park itself. When we talk further about infrastructure, no significant infrastructure network is envisaged. What's detected here, or what's in the space, is an abandoned transport wire. The spatial plan provides that this transport cableway, i.e. its corridor, is to explore and see the conditions and ways under which it could possibly be reconstructed and used for tourist purposes. Compared to the second infrastructure, the stage reconstruction of the road network is envisaged. So, it's not about building some new roads, but the existing roads would be reconstructed, existing hiking tours would actually make it possible to reconstruct their purpose as well. When it comes to electricity. The power supply is only on Envy and there it will still be. An existing power grid that is superior to this plan predicts cable. When it comes to waste sanitary waters, then there are three sites more visited than hikers. It's about envying Alan and these sites are supposed to build impermeable cesspools that will therefore collect wastewater and drive them beyond the park's borders. I'm asking you nicely next. Now that I'm talking about the procedure itself. The owners of the plan at the time when the plan began was the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. The ministry was also actively involved by the Department for the Protection of Nature of the Ministry of Culture, which was then part of the ministry and regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. The designer was the Institute for Spatial Planning of Lika-Senjska County and Urban Design d.o.o. from Zagreb. And the procedure itself. Thus, a number of previous discussions were conducted in the process. These previous discussions were conducted on those basis cards. So, to conservation studies, to nature conservation studies. In these previous discussions, all the experts from the area participated, so to protect the nature of culture and everyone else. An interested public participated in the previous discussions. Likewise, after the previous debate, there was also a public debate held in Great in the period from 19 July to 18 August 2011. In the public debate, 10 different entities made 128 remarks. Of these 128 comments 76 was accepted, 9 was partially accepted, and 40 were interpreted because such a type of remark was made that there was no need for acceptance, non-acceptation, but interpretations and three were not accepted. Likewise, in the process of drawing up the plan, the Council for the Spatial Regulation of the Republic of Croatia, which discussed it and then gave its positive consent. On the draft plan, according to special regulations, all ministries agreed. Likewise, all the specific conditions that have been requested by previous and public debates to be incorporated into the plan have been adequately installed. And after this whole procedure, the government has established a final proposal and delivered to the Assembly a spatial plan, a Decision on the adoption of the Spatial Plan of the North Velebit National Park for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5337	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, we'll move on to a club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, a representative of Mr Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5338	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, Croatia is one of the countries at the bottom of the share of protected territory, i.e. national parks, nature parks and so on in Europe. This situation is being corrected and the situation must continue to improve. The North Velebit National Park is the last declared national park in Croatia, which does not mean it is less important than others and does not mean it is less beautiful than others. Here we have the opportunity to actually try and apply all new knowledge about the protection of nature and the environment, all of what we have learned in our own skin that we should not work in other places in Croatia. And here we don't need to miss. This document is actually an impressive document when a person looks at the details a little bit and what's on the web. It's obviously a huge effort and great knowledge has been put in, and it would be really important now from layman, which I am, an interested layman, but layman to criticise this document. I can't think of anything! We have some comments on some of the articles and would be very happy if these remarks were taken into account when drawing up the following implementing documents, the rules and the like, which will surely follow this Space Plan, so I would only talk about it in any way not wanting to reduce the value and quality of this document. For example, Article 14 discusses the protection against fires. The fire protection plan was made in 2002. I think there's a 2004 threat assessment. It would be good for the Implementing Great Regulations to determine which fire extinguishers are to be used in such a way as to determine areas where fire-fighting aircraft and helicopters may be used. It's an area that's in danger of these summer fires. It is obvious that the use of seawater should not make use of such funds in all parts of the National Park. Firepower training in the use of plant fire tactics should also be prescribed, which does not require the use of water by removing fuel substances from the ground and, similarly, firefighters know what it is. Article 26 refers to the control of agricultural areas in the national park. I think it should explicitly prohibit the use of chemical agents to protect plants, chemical agents for the control of weeds and similar funds at all in the national park because it opposes the very essence of the national park. Article 28 discusses a ban on parking of private vehicles at entrances and certain points in the national park. It would be good to ban in those places where it obviously bothers for various reasons and parking buses and other means of traffic to which tourists come. In Article 31(6), it refers to the site of the Big Break, which is about the sources of electricity. The text goes on about generators and solar panels, and here the term renewable energy sources is used. Solar and other. So it doesn't occur to anyone for a year or ten years or so to build wind power plants in a national park or something like that, maybe they should put it in an act like a ban, right? The article 34 discusses waste collection and municipal waste and other waste created in the national park itself. I think it would be good to provide by regulation, order, regulation however you want sorted collection, separate collection of waste, which is practice already in some of our cities and somewhere. Here it should be a rule that should not be deviated. Also, Article 34(4) refers to waste construction material, and the Waste Act refers to construction waste, a useful waste that is not the term set out in the Waste Act, etc. There may be some kind of problem with the application of this spatial plan due to the disagreement of the term. In the end, I would like to make one more remark which I received from the Mountain Rescue Service. They were not contacted by anyone in the adoption of this spatial plan, of course they could have been involved in a public debate like everyone else, but since it is a service that is precisely on such a field and in this place has the most intervention in future decisions on the fate of the national park and on events in the national park it would be good to contact them, take care of their ideas and instructions. They must have them and know what they're saying, and also about the State Protection and Rescue Authority, which is, of course, involved in the Mountain Rescue Service actions. All in all, we consider this a very good document and a useful document which these remarks need to be corrected by some kind of reasoning, acts that are hierarchical underneath this and in application ensure that this national park remains what it is today and that we are all proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5339	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP representative Mr Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5340	Dear Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will try more from the professional aspect of agriculture and livestock work to discuss the proposal of the Space Plan of the North Velebit National Park, but before that part let me stress that Article 11. The Nature Protection Act, what exactly is the definition of a national park? That this is a spatial, predominantly unchanged area of land or sea of exceptional and multiple natural values, including one or more preserved and slightly modified ecological systems. And it is primarily intended to preserve the original natural values. I must stress, and this is what you have received as working material that the Committee on Environmental Protection as an interested working body has discussed this proposal of the Space Plan of the North Velebit National Park and that we have taken a particularly positive opinion. But national park, each national park according to European criteria has a scientific, cultural, educational and recreational purpose. There are 8 national parks in the Republic of Croatia, but what is very interesting when you look at statistical polls from 10 people in the Republic of Croatia all 1.5 to 1.7 can count 8 national parks. Most of them focus only on 2, these are means Plitvice and Krka. Which means either we haven't presented these enough marketingly or the problem is somewhere else. In fact, when we talk about North Velebit National Park, it is to point out that in 2011, there were about 2.26 million visitors in the Republic of Croatia and that almost 48% of them went to Plitvice National Park and only 0.9% to North Velebit National Park. Let's just say one detail that we should discuss and see how that part best presented. As Deputy Minister of North Velebit National Park said, it belongs to the youngest national parks in the Republic of Croatia because the national park declaration was made in 1999. What concerns us a little is the fact or knowledge that the spatial plan for this national park is done only 12 years later, or 13 years later. But if I stick to that people's "better ever" then that spatial plan should be supported and, of course, give a contribution to this Croatian House to get into this problem as soon as possible or to approach the problem of solving the accumulated problems that exist there. I must stress that in 1988, an emphasis 25 years ago, a study was made to develop tourism in the area of Nature Park Velebit for the purpose of drawing up a spatial plan of the North Velebit National Park, and the problem is that from 1999 until today, flora and fauna are still under way. So 13 years in that national park, we're recording and detecting that all plant and animal species exist, so I think from a professional point of view there's some evolutionary change in how plants and animals in those 12 years didn't come and how we could somehow bring that part to an end. I also agree with the fact that the Deputy Minister and the Committee on Environmental Protection said it was a long-term preparation because it actually required professional expertise from the hydrogenic influences of valorisation of a particular landscape, of course, that it could not be solved in one year or two days, but let's face it, 12 years is still a little too much. TO BE WORSE in this context in 2009, Velebit was declared a park of nature and was immediately followed by a mark of the world phenomenon of the biosphere. And that fact we haven't been able to use in the past three or four years fast enough. The area of the National Park is about 109 square kilometers as the deputy said, however, 80% of the area of the Park belongs to state property. Some 78% of these 109km have grown in forests, and 22% belong to some infertile surfaces or lawns, or pastures and stones. Of those 22%, 18% are lawns and pastures, and all of them are about 4% stones. Traditional activities within the national park are northern Velebit forestry and agriculture, I will in this part of the debate give an emphasis on livestock production because I believe that the National Park has some comparative advantages for the development of the same, especially since in Europe there is a trend in eco-production and I think that in that part we can connect several economic activities from tourism, livestock and ultimately the withdrawal of funds or pre-accession funds from the European Union. Before the national park was declared there was a long tradition of forestry in the area of the same and cutting down wood mass, and today according to the law on the protection of the nature of the forest in that part are special purposes and their management is actually prohibited for the purpose of extracting wood mass and selling on the market, which is an important element to which I will refer again later. The livestock industry in this part can be categorized into two divisions, primarily a pasture stoner located in the southwest part of the park of the northern part of Velebit and lawns and meadows more located in the central part than that of the sea. Why is this important to emphasize? Organic production enables primarily cheap, quality and healthy livestock food in this area, and on the other hand, it automatically enables the comparative exploitation of favourable relief opportunities that exist in the area. Today's demographic and socioeconomic opportunities have conditioned the disappearance of agricultural production in the area as well as the deforestation and healing of grassy and pasture areas that are slowly and gradually turning into a forest. And now if you go back to the opening part I mentioned that the Nature Protection Act is forbidden to exploit wood mass from that area, it turns out that if we look at evolution over 10, 20, 30 years, we're going to lose that phenomenon, and everything is going to turn into a forest that we can't practically and can't use. From the point of view of livestock, I think it can be quite possible at this end, we talked about it on the board, where I asked the question of which kind of livestock is planned to stick in this area, and after a brief discussion I got the answer that it would be sheepmaking, but we didn't mention goat farming, where I hold that goat farming in this part can be a very important preventative factor against fires. A colleague of Vuljanović told the opening section that we do not have a registered record and the study said that the National Park has problems with the lack of sufficient personnel, which are able to absorb and monitor fires that can occur at some point and which can be operated very quickly. That's a problem we can solve by goatmaking. It can also solve adult schizophres, dried stems that are very... especially during the summer period for the fires with which, of course, we can have much bigger problems later. The concept of traditional agriculture is marked by the natural and climate conditions that definitely exist in this area but I stress that it is not used enough in both economic and cultural terms. Today, livestock farming in that area is ahead of extinction even though the whole of Europe and the whole world are stimulating such a form of preservation of cultural heritage and organic production, and I think we should keep that in mind. Facts about what happened. The botanic treasure found in the North Velebit National Park refers primarily to the fact that this geomorphological phenomenon that exists is slowly systematically changing. Unless we do something very likely for 20 years, we'll only have forests on that part without traditional pastures. Most of the private property covered by these grasslands and pastures are within which they were located. apartments or shepherds' dwellings for hiding from accidents. The whole intensity of the spatial plan is precisely the fact that one good part of these buildings is trying to save and revitalize in some way, or that they try to preserve or preserve themselves in the domain of the Ministry of Spatial Planning. It is also very important to highlight the possible revitalisation of demographic factors because there are only 1,000 inhabitants in 9 settlements surrounding the national park. With the development of livestock, with an emphasis on livestock, sheepmaking and goats that would actually serve to maintain and cultivate that field but we also have the possibility of developing tourism. For example, only adventurous, eco-ethical tourism, Robinson tourism, which takes a very high demand in Europe for such a vacation, recreation or to go to nature. You see, all these projects in the EU are at our disposal, we just need to take, grab and exploit. What's particularly important to highlight is the preservation of genetic diversity because so-called. primitive breeds of animals that would be from Busha, Pramenka or some type of goat allow the Republic of Croatia to position themselves in the bank of genes. There is little debate about it, but there is actually a large part of Croatian wealth that needs to be put into function. With the production of new healthy food, rural tourism is also developed, and when you look at cities or cities located in the area or in the national park Senj, Otocac, Perusic, all this development also enables economic strengthening of the region. To stress that for each serious project and for each serious realization of an idea should be initiated or started from the starting point. The starting point in this section should be a clear vision, a clear mission and achievement of the objectives. We also have to use this national park to attract tourists to show a wealth of Croatian climate, to admire what we really have. It is very important to say that the buildings inside the park are buildings outside the building area and that they occupy an area that is less than 1% of the total area of the park. Now, the remains of shepherding settlements and dwellings and buildings for occasional stay, cottages built without proper building permits. The key question is whether the shepherd's dwellings on the ground are whether the ministry tried to include those dwellings in UNESCO's cultural heritage and the preservation of traditional culture. That's an important detail where it could be done. I didn't find it in the materials. On the other hand, I am personally interested in whether these cottages will be removed, whether they will be legalised and if there is no plan to build any weekend settlements in that part, although the materials say that there is no. On the international stage, there is a new world-wide view of behaviour that primarily lies on the ecologically holistic principles of sustainable development, in integrated protection through appropriate management of the space contained in Agenda 21, but also on the Strategy for Rural Europe. The main objective of the national park's spatial plan is to preserve natural characteristics while maintaining the balance of karst and forest eco systems in relatively original or bar-found form. The SDP club in the Croatian Parliament believes that the appearance of a national park in terms of changing the composition of the grasslands of unprocessed soil and forests should not actually be changed, which means that all preventive actions should be taken to preserve that part of the national park in this form as presented. When it comes to cultural and educational functions, which also makes national parks of great importance not to be ignored and the fact that for the national being, the Croatians Velebit has special meaning. Conscious in the minds of peoples, folk songs and surrenders accordingly, and that part should be taken into account when adopting this spatial plan. In any case, the SDP Representatives Club will support the adoption of the Northern Velebit National Park Space Plan, with the hope that everything I have listed will allow a decent positioning of the national park on the scale of European values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5341	Thank you very much to the Roman representative. The HNS Representatives' Club's position will be presented by a respected representative, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5342	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club welcomes primarily this spatial plan which we consider to be one in a series of documents that the national park will raise to a higher and more quality level. What was the main task of this spatial plan was primarily to determine the protection, use and management of this park. Here, as a club of HNS, we would fully support the maximum standards of protection and preservation of this vastly valuable space. Also in the use of this space, we believe that using the space of the national park can enable one part of the retention or repair of the demographic situation at the premises of the North Velebit National Park to return some of the protected animals to the rural development area or that have used these spaces in the history of this park. And what's most important with this spatial document is exactly how we're going to manage and use it. We also believe in the club HNS that this document, a spatial plan, should have seen the light of day before, because from the first initiatives when this park was first a park of nature in '97. and on the basis of that document in '99. The year was declared a national park. It's been many years since that time, and we could have done it before. But since we're bringing it now, it's also to say hello. What we from the HNS Club welcome is a thorough preparation of this material that has passed and necessary discussions and an indication of all stakeholders both from the profession and from other interested entities. What is mentioned is that with the management actually using the national park in these 12 years we have not yet made an inventory of the biodiversity in this park. There are 970 plant species in the North Velebit National Park. What's most important is that it's a very large number of protected and endemic plants. Of this number 105 belongs to strictly protected plant properties, 160 protected plant properties, and 70 plant species are found in the red book of the vascular flora of the Republic of Croatia. Of that number, 24 plant properties are prior to extinction. These are the things that all of us sitting in the most honorable place in the Republic of Croatia must certainly turn on the red light in the Croatian Parliament. This must also be reacted to keeping some of this plant diversity safe. In addition, there are over 250 species of mushrooms, animal species and everything else in the North Velebit National Park. What also occurs with this spatial plan that by way of management, the way of management certainly as a community whether through the Ministry of Tourism, through the tourist community we must be able to value and present to the world the pearls of Croatian beauty and these are national parks. I agree with my colleague from the SDP that a large number of Croatian citizens, and even us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, would not all suddenly list 8 national parks, which are pearls of beauty in Croatia. It is the task of this honorable House, the task and all the institutions in the executive government, that we try to valorize these beautyes, try to evaluate them. What is also important is that in all procedures in the North Velebit National Park, we must first of all be guided by strict conditions of nature protection, meaning laws that regulate it, strictly take care of the conditions given by conservatives and normal and ultimately by the authorisations of the national authorities. If we respect that, then she'll disappear and suspect that with this spatial plan maybe construction and devastation of this very valuable natural resource will enter the door. It means that we always take care of nature protection, conservatives, and building conditions. Here I also ask spatially, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction to pay special attention to all national parks and special care. What the colleague also noted was that in the part of the North Velebit National Park, the construction of cottages that serve for the occasional stay in the area also took place. Here we ask the Ministry of Spatial Planning to follow the law, that everything that cannot be legalized should be dealt with legally. The Croatian People's Party also welcomes the part where in North Velebit National Park we have determined exactly three zones – a zone of strict protection that has under a) the strictest protection and controlled protection. These are basically both spaces under one are strictly protected spaces where tourists can't actually come. Also active protection and use zone. What is good to be able and actually with a spatial plan is also given the possibility of using a national park. A colleague of the SDP was talking about it. I think it's certainly good because there's a realistic possibility that if we don't intervene in space that in twenty years there's no more meadows, there's no pasture, there's not a whole forest, and that's not the goal. The Croatian People's Party fully supports this spatial plan, but the obligation for all of us to through the competent and ministry and tourist communities of this pearl of beauty of the Republic of Croatia, national parks to raise them to the highest level and to be one more aggressive and stronger promotion. The Croatian People's Party will support a spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5343	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, representative of Mr Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5344	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Northern Velebit National Park spatial plan. Introductoryly on behalf of the club, I would like to point out that nature protection in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition, and that the characteristics of our national parks and nature parks well reflect the diversity and richness of nature in Croatia. Namely, Croatia is known for its largely intact nature and preserved ecological systems. The protection of these valuable parts of nature is provided by the Nature Protection Act, which defines different categories of protection of natural values. It has already been mentioned on several occasions that there are 8 national parks in Croatia but there are also 11 nature parks. The primary purpose of national parks is to preserve natural values, and therefore economic use of natural resources is prohibited in these areas, but traditional forms of management and many tourist activities are allowed. Of the total number of national parks declared, three mountain areas with a diverse relief and plant cover are Risnjak, Paklenica and North Velebit, while of the 11 nature parks there are as many as 6 mountainous parks, Velebit, Biokovo, Medvednica, Papuk, Učka and Žumberak Samoborsko gorje. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Mr Vuljanic said that Croatia is in matters of protection of space at the bottom of the European Union's Member States' scale. I have to say that's not true, that the data is completely different. It is true that around 20% of the area in the European Union is in a percentage area, the areas of the Member States of the European Union under one type of protection. But that is also the percentage of the ecological network established by the Member States of the European Union and which becomes a European ecological network. In Croatia without an ecological network, about 12% of total territory is protected, but Croatia has also established its ecological network, and then this coefficient is no longer 12% but 40%, which Croatia comes with the Republic of Slovenia somewhere to the top of the European Union Member States which in one of the ways provided for by the Nature Protection Act have protected their space. If all EU Member States were to remove part of the area covered by the European ecological network, then Croatia would be at the very top of the European countries without its ecological network. It is therefore not true that the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom of the European countries when it comes to the protection of the territory of the country. But it is not just the establishment of a national park or a nature park or any other form of space protection in Croatia that is crucial to the protection of space. Without the adoption of spatial plans, without the adoption of a management plan for a particular national park or other reserve, nature park, etc., etc. There is no full protection of that space protected by the declaration itself in this case when we talk about North Velebit National Park. It is therefore important to point out the following information, which is that of the 8 recently mentioned national parks for them 5 has already been adopted for Mljet, Paklenica, Risnjak, Brijuni and Kornata and that today we discuss the sixth national park, i.e. the sixth spatial plan of the National Park in this case of North Velebit, but that we still have the passage of the Spacious Plan for the Krka National Park and Plitvice Lakes. As far as I have information, it is already under public debate and Krka and Plitvice Lakes. I would therefore ask the ministry to speed up, clearly within the framework of the law, because the procedure for the adoption of spatial plans is very complicated, requires public debate, requires all of the procedures provided for by the Law on Spatial Planning, so it would be good to bring forward the spatial plans of the area of special features as soon as possible, and in this case the National Park of Krk and Plitvice Lakes National Park. Also, I mentioned earlier that there are 11 nature parks in Croatia, so only 3 nature parks have spatial plans, which are Kopački butt, Učka and Lonjsko polje. We can say that the full establishment of protection of national parks, nature parks and all areas in Croatia that are protected by the Nature Protection Act will be established when all national parks, when all nature parks have spatial plans of the area of special features, but which is not less important when they have plans to manage those areas as well as envisaged. Otherwise, when we talk about North Velebit, then we must say that North Velebit, a colleague has mentioned this before, the youngest national park in Croatia, which was declared in 1999, and I agree with all who say that 13 years since the establishment and declaration of the National Park today, when we are in the Assembly discussing the adoption of a spatial plan of the area of special features is a really long time and that 13 years are indeed in that national park despite our declaration that we are not practically protecting it without a spatial plan and that it is necessary and that it would be better if it had been reduced and that it should not have waited 13 years for the Croatian Parliament to discuss the adoption of a spatial plan. But it should be said that the procedure for making professional bases which are supposed to be the adoption of spatial plans is really demanding. Requests the inclusion of a series of institutions, requires the adoption and identification of a series of relevant data to be used for the adoption of a spatial plan. Therefore, with the best will to adopt a spatial plan as soon as possible, as a rule, when particularly protected spaces in Croatia are the assumptions for its adoption and therefore it is known to delay this process of adopting a spatial plan. Otherwise Velebit itself is specific, I think there is little space in the world that we have two national parks in the area of a mountain range – in the south of Paklenica and in the north of North Velebit and that the whole area is practically a nature park that is within the list of biosphere reserves within UNESCO's scientific programme of man and biosphere as well. Thus, indeed Velebit is specific and the fact that there are two national parks is extremely important when we talk about this mountain range. We at the HDZ Club want to express our satisfaction that here is the process of making a spatial plan at the end, here is what is practical about adopting this spatial plan now in the Parliament. During last year, the ministry carried out a procedure that was planned for the adoption of a spatial plan, a public debate was held, public awareness last year. All those circumstances which and obligations stemmed from the adoption of a spatial plan were also made and what is good is that mainly the observations highlighted in the public debate were largely adopted. But the fact is that since it was previously mentioned land in that national park mainly owned by the state, it was indeed a small number of citizens' objections, and almost entirely they were objections from institutions that participated in the very adoption of this spatial plan through public debate. What we think is important is that the plan rests on the principles of nature protection, on evaluations of possible burdens on space use, that the plan provides a framework for sustainable use and space editing and is a quality basis for managing the space of the national park. The plan retains human and economic components that do not endanger the fundamental values of the national park, which seems to me to be a priority when the spatial plan of a national park is adopted when setting guidelines and provisions for the implementation of the spatial plan. The plan allows the local population to exist even though there are no living people in the area of the national park, but the border areas of the national park are near the settlement, only 1,000 inhabitants live in these border areas, so in that part we can say that the plan is not that the area of the park itself is not threatened in the sense that it can be threatened when the local population lives in the area. The plan shall ensure the protection of the value of the area of the national park and the acceptable way of using both the owner and the visitor and determine the necessary procedures for the introduction of a controlled visitation system. The plan further directs the activities of conservation and revitalisation of the building heritage in particular ethnological heritage and is determined according to biodiversity in accordance with the prescribed conventions on biodiversity and landscape. Finally, the plan enables the protection of natural cultural goods based on further research. What I would like to say in the end is that we are also on the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as on the home Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, also discussing the performance that we have received from the Association for Nature Protection "Animalia", which refers to the already mentioned reconstructions, adaptations of existing pastoral dwellings in the area of this National Park and we are also in the Committee and older governments and I welcome that it is possible to reconstruct shepherding dwellings and prior to the adoption of a spatial plan, a national park and based on the provisions of the spatial plan of the city of Senja. This is very important because then, in a certain way, it also points to the correctness of the earlier position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction where we have said that the adoption of a spatial plan or better to adopt a plan of the area of specific characteristics is not an obstacle to the adoption of a solution to the conditions built on a space where this plan of the unit of local self-government until the adoption of a spatial plan of the area of specific characteristics regulates with its provisions stemming from these spatial plans of units of local self-government. This is very important, this is what I want to single out for the Parliament speaker here because in earlier cases the Ministry's position has always been that until the adoption of spatial plans of the body's special features of the administrative bodies of cities and counties can generally be made on the basis of the existing spatial planning of the solution in this case, such as with shepherding housing on..., it is possible to implement and make a decision on the conditions of construction. Therefore, to conclude the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this spatial plan, the Space Plan will certainly contribute to the better preservation of this area of northern Velebit, it is necessary, on the basis of this Space Plan and the Public Institute for National Park Management, to adopt appropriate acts, and in a way implemented in the process of adopting a spatial plan, and that local self-government, local population, are included, that all of those provisions that should have been respected in the adoption of this plan are respected, that the local population, and all those interested in the preservation of that would have said pearl, and this is the Northern Velebit National Park. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5345	Thank you. We are moving on to an individual debate, the first member of parliament, Ms. Marija Vukbratovic, has applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5346	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. As has already been said several times today and especially about this wonderful presentation by the Deputy Minister of 1999, the area within the border of Nature Park Velebit was declared a national park and so we got our youngest National Park. There are few places in Croatia, and some will say that it is actually the only place in Croatia where so many natural phenomena have been collected in so little space. This applies first of all to the Hajduk and the Rozan hips which are one of the most attractive places on the cross but also to many rare plant and animal species, so those we have all heard of them were Velebit degenia, lamb, bell, suriore, brown bear, for example. If we in Croatia cannot boast of a successful economy, developed industry or high standard of living, we can certainly boast of the great diversity and diversity of natural beauty. Unfortunately, we ourselves do not know how to appreciate them or enjoy them, nor do we know them convincingly enough to present them to the world, and that way you can either extend the tourist season or improve the tourist season offer. I'm not saying that by heart, now I'm going to tell you the results of a survey I've been conducting in the last four generations of students, it's about 500 students. When asked if they were ever on the North Velebit, did they visit the Cerovačka Cave or any other cave on the fingers of one hand you can count those who were on the North Velebit and many of them were never on the Cerovian Caves. Most of them have never actually been to Plitvice Lakes, so one of the oldest and most reprehensible national parks in Croatia. Unfortunately, we took our children to Spain, Greece, the Czech Republic, so it is no wonder they are neither interested in the natural beauty of Croatia nor know how to enjoy it. Fortunately, and thank God for the last few years, this situation has changed, so we try to maintain our prom trips within the Republic. I, like some of my predecessors, felt that for 13 years it was a very long period to adopt a spatial plan, I didn't know about some of the procedures needed and which are so long-term, however, but now I am appalled by the fact that my colleague Bečić says that we do not yet have a spatial plan for the National Park Plitvice Lakes or Krka, especially because it is one of the most important documents that not only determines the measures and safety of the environmental and real values of the environment enables them to carry out scientific and educational and educational functions, enables organised and controlled visits and tours of the park, helping owners to deal with the ecological and traditional forms that restrict procedures in the area itself, and determines how to use of space in the National Park itself. Just these days online is a presentation of nature lovers who talk about the devastation of the North Velebit National Park called "Velebit's conscience again on trial" as much as I had the opportunity to hear it is many have received this presentation. In fact, it accuses the leadership of the National Park and the Ministry of Culture, which is a little suspicious, I think the Ministry of Culture is not engaged in that part, then it is a good culture ministry under which I quote "under the cover of the restoration of pastoral dwellings to build objects that are more than a dozen times larger than shepherd's dwellings and commercialize them". Among the lines, he also resents the Croatian Assembly, which did not make a spatial plan, i.e. the Decision on the adoption of the Spatial Plan of the National Park, which would regulate the way in which the space is protected and used. The same text now argues that Velebit now wants to commercialise in such a way as to use the city of Senj's spatial plan, since this one has not been brought in etc. You have had the opportunity to hear this and in this way to actually build yourself which objects making access roads and uncontrollable arrivals to guests would devastate this protected area. Most of the people who got that presentation and who had the chance to see it believe it's true. They do not have the opportunity or intention to check it out, so by this decision, if we decide that we should make a spatial plan of the national park, we will also defuse the very idea of any illegal and illegal activities, but also eliminate all fears of nature lovers and thus calm them down. So I think making this decision is extremely important and necessary. And that's why I'm calling on all my fellow Members and fellow MPs to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5347	Thank you. Next for an individual debate representative Mr. Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. Here's because I've been to Velebit more than once, so I've been to most of these locations that are mentioned here. This is my little thanks to Velebit for everything he's given me. Of course he's far from us much higher he doesn't hear it, and you're actually collateral victims of our non-communication. But I do have some concrete remarks regarding this motion for a decision. So, it would be good to bring these documents and they are not often brought to the Croatian Parliament, to present the basis of documents in the lobby of the Croatian Parliament that these ten days before the debate on the point can be seen. This presentation you presented was very poorly visible, it is very rudimentary and it would be good for basic cartographic depictions and basic text documents to be available to representatives, and also to the public and media alike. It is common practice, for example, in the City Assembly of Zagreb, so it would be good to use the good practice of the City of Zagreb City Assembly using their experience of the benefits of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. Equally, it would be good if in this basic material package, a wider package had been delivered to the members of the Spatial Editing Committee, at least the remarks that were sent to us to see how the public debate concerning this plan had been under way. And it would be good if it had not already been done this time to do so in the next spatial order documents, especially because these documents of spatial arrangement in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament do not have much, so it is not a big deal. So we bring this plan 13 years after the law was passed on the declaration of the North Velebit National Park. Maybe we could have done it before, and then there wouldn't have been any difficulties that we now have with these decisions related to this construction in the space of Lubenovac and Alan, but good, if it's like that, even now. I'll draw attention here to some illogicalities that I think exist in this plan. The plan discusses how the restoration of shepherding apartments in the area of Alan and Lubenovac is possible but also mentions in detailed provisions the location of Struge-Zelengrad in Article 32. Therefore, only three locations are de facto possible for the construction and reconstruction of shepherding dwellings, while Article 35 discusses the protection of pastures from healing. The document mentions 19 places of shepherding dwellings, and only two, and potentially after valorisation and at the third location are allowed reconstruction and reconstruction of shepherding apartments. According to how it is planned, and it is considered to be an important landscape form, therefore pastures that should be preserved from healing and it is written here as the objective of this implementation decision, and it is not possible to build shepherding dwellings or reconstructions, and as we know, deforestation is not allowed. I therefore do not understand how these remaining 16 locations will then allow for this implementation of the plan. As regards the use of one location, even if it is not clearly stated, when it comes to detailed arrangements related to Alan and Lubenovac, it is not mentioned that there will be possible to carry out eco-ethical tourism activities there, but before that is referred to as the possibility of rebuilding and reconstructing the apartments. This is something that is completely beyond what is fundamental to the activity that should be the basic task of the decision. Of course it can't be a big range but it's something that absolutely doesn't comply with what's the basic idea of this decision, which is nature conservation. It is, of course, a didactic pedagogical function and it is probably not even in accordance with Article 11. The Act on the Protection of Nature, which says "in the National Park it is permitted to carry out catering and recreational activities that are part of the visitation and visitation" not in the role of retaining a stay and eco-ethical or Robinson tourism must mean a longer retention in that area, and it is probably not in accordance with the Nature Protection Act. That provision is not good. There can't be a lot of devastation, of course, because it's a small scale. It is possibly just a location in which the reconstruction and reconstruction of apartments is allowed, meaning Lubenovac eventually Zelengrad and Alan, but in that space and something like that is problematic. And I personally think, of course, I will support making these decisions, but I personally think that in that area, which is the most cultural and natural value, we don't really need it. And that's why it was either to leave it out in my opinion from this plan, if it's already in the plan, then it should have been very clear and unequivocally standing at which locations it would possibly be allowed. Because if that is not stated then interpretations are opened, and interpretations often end up against the public interest. There are other illogicalities in this text, so when it comes to the disposal of the contents of these waterproof tanks then somewhere it is said that they will be taken to Senj, somewhere it is said to be taken outside the park, anywhere as a possible location again in a general place. The text also says possible location of Otocac or Senj. Therefore, this text should be evened in that sense. It's not a text that freely writes and says what someone thinks, so now they say one thing, now they say the other, neither of them is wrong, so what happens. It can't be like that. The expression for all locations must be the same. And finally, here's a termological remark. This is about shepherding apartments and... apartments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a normative act. The normative act can't be for one and the same concept of multiple names, multiple names. The proposer must determine which is, may make some point as to why it was determined for this one or for that one, that these are two equal terms. But it can't be that you have two formulas that are even and of course you can set such an interpretation that they actually don't mean the same thing. And that is why this type of document must not be allowed. So on page 20 in the same text, in the same indent use both terms. As a rule, it does not allow the restoration of the destroyed shepherd’s dwellings. Exceptionally allowed to restore the preserved... The apartments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not the way to write these documents. And of course with all these small remarks and my private relationship with Velebit, I will, of course, support the proposal for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5349	Thank you. There's no need on behalf of the promoter? I thank you. I thank everyone for the debate. The debate on the text of the proposal is over. We'll vote tomorrow. For today, we'll be done with our work. We start tomorrow at 9.30. We begin with a point of meaning Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, etc. I don't want to pick it up. It means the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much and good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-08-0.u5350	Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Spatial Plan of the North Velebit National Park, which is a point we also need to make known. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 106 votes, a decision has been taken on the establishment of the Northern Velebit National Park Space Plan in the text as proposed by the Proposer. We have reserved only one item on the agenda for today. This is the confirmation of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice-President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I particularly welcome the representatives of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia, headed by the apostolic nuncio, his Excellency Robert Kasari. The specific item of the agenda is: - The final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom of Ireland/Member States of the European Union/and the Republic of Croatia concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 51. My colleagues and colleagues after the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision on 5 March 2012 establishing that the State referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union was implemented in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the Croatian Parliament, following an urgent procedure, a proposal for a Treaty Confirmation Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I'm asking the proposer's representative if he wants to further explain the proposal. Here you go. Mr. Zoran Milanovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
