ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1074	So, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening 3. I will sit down at the Croatian Parliament and warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice President, Vice-President and present members of the Government. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – Ladies and gentlemen representatives, presidents and members of the Government I invite you to pay tribute for a minute of silence to the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilian victims of the war and I burn for Croatia. - One minute of silence - - Let them have eternal glory and thanks – Ladies and gentlemen MPs, minutes of the first and second session of the Croatian Parliament received at the session. Any objections to the records? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the first and second session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included six new points in the final draft agenda: 1. Proposal for a decision establishing the form of a representative card. Proposer: Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 16. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 14. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 17. 1. Proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 15. 1. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the items of the agenda are proposed from 5 to 8. I have to read them, and these are: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 16. Proposal for a law amending the Implementing Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 17. I Proposal for a Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 15. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Here you go. Representative Salapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1075	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the club of representatives of the HDZ has an objection to the proposal for an executive law that you want to adopt by emergency procedure. We believe that law was passed in the last assembly of the Parliament with 111 votes. It means the law was also voted by the SDP. We believe that the law you propose has many shortcomings, that you have committed chaos in the executive procedure in the Republic of Croatia and we suggest you withdraw this law from the emergency procedure. We believe that this directly damages the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1076	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister's representative if he wants to be obvious. Here you go. Minister Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1077	Dear colleagues, it is only a matter of delaying the application of the law necessary for the sake of harmonisation and avoidance of possible legal uncertainty. The law is otherwise, the delay was carried out by the government's regulation. Therefore, this Law only addresses the question which is now already governed by the Government's regulation. As for the possible negative consequences, we don't see them. We see a possible negative consequence if the law came into force as foreseen that all the analyses were not carried out until the end and there are data that indicate that just the application of the law that has been voted upon would cause irreparable damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1078	Thank you very much. We heard the explanation of the applicant's representative. I'd like to ask if there's any other emergency procedures? The quorum? Here are 126 MPs numbered in the hall. I then move to the vote and ask who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 16? Against? I find that the majority of votes 182 for and 44 against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Implementing Act, P.Z. No. 14? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Implementing Law because 83 MPs voted in favour, 43 against. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, P.Z. No. 17? Against? I find that the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers has been included in the agenda in an urgent procedure. And fourthly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, P.Z. No. 15? Against? I find that most of the votes with 84 votes and 42 against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Any of the MPs have any objections to points 3 and 9. The final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda you received with the invitation to this session? These are the proposal for a Decision establishing the form of a representative card and a Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. There isn't. Then I find and determine the ladies and gentlemen the representatives of the agenda have been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda, but I suggest, if you agree, that I do not read it fully but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. Do you agree with such a way of determining the agenda? Thank you. Before the vote, first of all, to you in accordance with and on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda with the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 20. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 23. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. 18. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection with the Final Proposal for a Law, P.Z. No. 21. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks with the Final Bill, P.Z. No. 24. All your materials are in your boxes, which according to the Rules of Procedure is considered to be a delivery of material. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 19. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. 22. Lawmakers are the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for action in boxes as I've already said. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure shall first decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Please, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I propose that urgent procedures be removed on this law, which proposes to amend the rules relating to officials' pensions, since we have not seen first of all, and according to media reports, we see that if the media are of course well interpreting the provisions of the law that all state officials are not equally treated in this law, then we ask the regular procedure of two readings, so that all interested public may be included in the debate. Because the other day I listened to the minister of the departmental minister who said it would be possible – a broad debate about the law, and then it is also in the spirit of what he announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1081	Thank you very much. Any other objections? Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1082	Mr. President, Articles 203. And on the way they talk about the agenda and the addition of the additional agenda points. I assure you that the bill you've read has not been passed. I've now checked with the ZIC, and there's not a single bill of law at the Advocacy Club. And secondly, it was common for the points to be added in writing. It's not there either. If you want to leave, let's go together and see if the materials are given. This is for the third time that please do not supplement the agenda or suggest until we get the materials. They're gone. Proposals of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1083	Mr. Representative, I have information that a few hours ago that your motions are divided into boxes. I'm now asking of course professional service to check it out. Here's some information from the secretary of the plenary session that the laws are in the box. That's how it's interpreted in the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, I don't mind, but we'll supplement the practice so that your laws are on your benches, so I'll look into it in the future. So I think it's the same thing, that we don't have to stick to the Rules of Procedure so that we don't make the work of MPs, MPs, and we can do it exactly as I just said. Are there any other objections, or suggestions, to the emergency procedure? Thank you. Then we're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. First, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 20? Who's in? Who's against it? ... There's no need for abstention. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure were included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament because 86 votes were for the proposal and 34 against. Second, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, P.Z. No. 23? Against? Thank you. I find that most votes on the agenda are subject to the final proposal on amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. 118 votes were in favour, 2 were against it. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, P.Z. No. 18? Against? I find that most votes in the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with 117 votes for and 3 against. Who's for an emergency procedure... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1084	Here's the thing. I just want to get some clear right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1085	Please, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Look, we can't just pick up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1086	No, just one clarification that will help us since we vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1087	Look, don't be mad, but we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1088	Then the breach of the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the club, to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1089	And the breach of the Rules of Procedure which article, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1090	An article that talks about leadership, all the articles that talk about holding a session, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1091	You must appeal to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1092	In fact, HDZ club representatives did not vote. Because we don't think you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1093	You must appeal to the correct provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1094	... It's obviously the ones that are in favour. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It counts us in favour, and we didn't vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So please fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1095	How I got the result so alone. So you didn't vote with any votes against? ... I'm still gonna have to do it again. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I put the vote on the urgent procedure to pass the Law on Amendments to the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, P.Z. No. 18. Who's in? Who's against it? When deciding on the urgency of the procedure, there are no abstentions. At least it says in the Rules of Procedure that those who do not declare themselves are considered abstentions. So I'll read the result of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I find that most votes with 86 votes in favour and 4 against the emergency procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection, P.Z. No. 21? Thank you. Against? I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Educational Inspection with 87 votes for and 5 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, P.Z. No. 24? Who's against it? Thank you. I find that most votes with 87 votes in favour and 5 against on the agenda according to the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency P.Z. No. 19? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that most of the votes 87 for and 5 against the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. And finally, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Croatia's Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia p.z. Number 22? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I note that most votes with 117 votes in favour and 5 against on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The agenda is complete. We move to a statement on the completion of the agenda, i.e. the vote. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; 2.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice Advocate-General for Gender Equality, (b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a Deputy Advocate for Gender Equality; 3. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television Board, is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media; 4.a)Reference for a decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Board of the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency and (b) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of these points? I find that the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1098	Thank you very much, Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I request that an emergency procedure be lifted, an emergency procedure for tax laws, which are listed here. From point 3 of the amendments submitted below. There's a lot of reason, of course, I'll just say about the increase in value added tax, we don't think it's good at this point, that the increase in value added tax will result in an increase in prices, by increasing the burden, which will be added to the back of the poorest. We ask regular procedure so that we can really get to know the general public and really discuss all the consequences of the adoption of these tax laws by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1099	Thank you, too. Here's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1100	Your Honor, Mr. President. Two proposals, two questions, please interpret as you wish. So, I don't think we're going to be working on this order of additions to the agenda, because I guess they're going to be asked first to discuss a package of tax laws, and then a state budget. But given that this is an extremely important topic for discussion, it would be good if we didn't have to speculate when we're going to discuss the budget, when it comes to the laws, to the order of the agenda, in the future, but also now I insist that we do what we do today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, to tell us when we're going to open a debate on the state budget, because this expectation, uncertainty is not good in parliament. And secondly, I know you don't have to comply with the business provisions, but I would still ask you to include in the agenda the four proposals of the laws of the Croatian Labourers, the parties of the work that have been delivered. It's been a long time and conditions have been developed to fit the agenda, but I know that you can appeal to a regulation of the Rules of Procedure that says 30 days before calling the session, this is just a follow-up. So the inclusion of these bill proposals in the agenda would be your goodwill and would show that you will not behave like those before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1101	Thank you very much. Whether to answer to everything together or to everything individually. I see Mr. Representative Damir Cain has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1102	It is clear that these points should be discussed as soon as possible, a month before the budget, it is at the monthly level of saving "340 million kuna" but my proposal would be to unify these tax laws in a single debate, not to discuss the 5th point of the law because it is merely a repeat of the debate, I think there is no need, but that from the 3rd point of the agenda to the 7th simply a united debate. I think it would be useful or higher than an expedition, and I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1103	I think, however, I'm sorry, Mr. Vinkovic, you've got your word, but just a little answer. Maybe you're still on that trail. So here you now have a proposal to supplement the agenda, but you don't have a consolidated agenda, so I want to tell you that we're going to be able to sort of guide the order of the points so that first we can discuss tax laws or laws that in these proposals are supposed to budget, and then budgets. And as far as I'm concerned about how to say the deal we made, I hope with most of the board presidents, at least that's how I asked, we'd be working today so that, in most cases, the committees on the agenda would have these tax laws, and on Thursday, we'd start a plenary session at 12 o'clock tomorrow to allow room for the committee's work, and for the sake of discussion on the budget. So we will be best organized to discuss these important points of the agenda more constructively and more meaningfully, and that is the answer, Mr. Lesar, to your question. And as for the other, of course, as soon as the conditions are met, the conditions have not yet been met, I will tell you in more detail about this later to put your proposals on the agenda that you have proposed before. Mr. Agent Vinkovic, do you want to proceed now? Here you go. No, no, it's about the agenda. ... That's what you need to see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1104	Thank you, Mr. President. I also oppose the adoption of an emergency procedure of this tax code package, since I have no objection, in particular, to increasing the non-taxable share of the salary from a thousand to two thousand to 200 kuna, but in this package the changes and additions of the Law on the financing of local self-government units are missing and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government units, because these packages on the one hand, the raising of VAT as a new blow to citizens' pockets, and on the other hand, the increase of non-taxable income as a rub in the eyes of those same citizens will further impoverish the budgets of local self-government units in the same way that happened in 2007 when HDZ centralised the total profit tax that was no longer charged at the head office of the company, but blended into the state budget, then the ruling coalitions were very loudly talking about this new centralisation of Croatia. This is again centralisation of Croatia and poverty units of local self-government and their budgets. For this reason, we believe that these packages should not go by emergency procedure but should be complemented by all the laws relating to the functioning of both the state budget and the county and local budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1105	Thank you. You had a bit of an argument and I see by these points, but good. Can we go to the vote? Then we'll approach the vote. We're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. First of all, let's see if we have a quorum, I was convinced from the Croatian Parliament's secretariat that from today on, the technique needs to function well electronically, so I hope so. 123 deputies are in the hall according to a report from the gallery. So then we move on to a statement on who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Value Added Tax Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36, with the note that Ms. Kosor and Mr. Agent Vinkovic have suggested that the law does not go according to emergency procedure, so I put to the vote who is in favour of passing the law by emergency procedure? Let's get on board, please. We'll vote electronically. After we've turned on, does everyone's devices work? Thank you. I suggest we do it again. Here's what I didn't vote for because I thought you should first ask who it was for. I apologize and ask that we vote again nicely on who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36? So we're voting again because a lot of people didn't make it. Look, we're working on it now that we're going to vote manually all the time, that's the thing. I'm begging you because we won't have another choice. I'm sorry I inherited a technique that didn't work, and I asked Secretary of Parliament to do anything to make it work today. I'm asking you to cooperate, or we'll raise our hands all the time. No, no, I said what's the fact, don't. Please nicely, I warn you that otherwise we will vote constantly because I have no other choice... with my hands. Do you agree to repeat the vote? Please nicely, therefore the breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. MP has given up. I see the opposition agrees with what I suggested. I'm asking you to start voting through electronics now, and I think it's going to work. So let's get involved and vote on this proposal. The result, please. For this proposal, I find that most votes were accepted, in a way that 76 votes were for the application of the emergency procedure, 9 were abstentions and 30 against. So otherwise, just to warn you, when you say the urgency of the procedure, there are no abstentions but who's in favour, who's against it. We're moving on to the second point on the urgency of the procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, P.Z. No. 29, i.e. Let's get involved and vote who's in, who's against. Score. In order to adopt an emergency procedure, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Profit Tax has been voted on by 74 MPs, 37 against, the two are not counted in such a way as to determine that most votes on the agenda are included in the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits. We move on to the next statement, which is to declare the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. Thirty-two. Let's get involved and vote. I find that the majority of votes, with 76 votes in favour, 34 against, on the agenda of the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income. ... /The noise in the hall./... I don't know what the problem is. You have to be careful when you vote next time. We move to a statement on the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, P.Z. No. 28. Let's get involved and vote. I find that most of the votes, with 80 votes in favour, 36 against the emergency procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. We move to a statement on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, P.Z. No. 34. Let's get involved, please, and let's vote. I find that the majority of votes, 80 for, 31 against the emergency procedure agenda, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. We move to a statement on the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration, P.Z. No. 37. Let's get involved, please, and let's vote. I find that most of the votes, with 82 votes and 27 against the agenda under emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration. We move to a statement on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Tax Administration Act, P.Z. No. 30. Let's get involved, please, and let's vote. I find that the majority of the votes, 67 for, 25 against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included in the Final Proposal of the Tax Administration Act. We move to a statement on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Financial Police Act, P.Z. No. 27. Let's get involved and vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 31 against, on the agenda of an emergency procedure, are included in the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Financial Police Act. We move to a statement on the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, P.Z. No. 33. Let's get involved, please, and let's vote. I find that the majority of votes, 76 for, 29 against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. We move to a statement on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 35. Let's get involved and vote. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 29 against, on the agenda of the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, I suggest that we plead for an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the bankruptcy law, P.Z. No. 31. Let's get involved and vote. I propose that we plead for the application of this procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the bankruptcy law, P.Z. No. 31. Let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 75 for, 28 against the agenda by emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Banking Law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the remaining proposed points? Thank you. I find that the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1106	Fellow MPs and fellow MPs, we can start working. First of all, I would like to establish the presence of MPs and representatives in the hall, or to determine whether or not we have a quorum. ... /The noise in the hall./... Do you hear what I'm saying? ... /The noise in the hall./... Can you hear it? I can do it louder. Do you all have the keys to identify the representative presence? Can we check the presence of representatives in the Assembly, in the hall? Can we get involved? Please turn yourself in. Are we on? Can we check the presence? There are us at test 86, and there are more of us present in the hall, so we have enough representatives and MPs present to be able to move on to the completion of the agenda. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, I suggest we complete the agenda with 8 points as follows: 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union programme Criminal Law, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 40, 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the specific Civil Law programme, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 41, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 44, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 42, 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 43, 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46, 7. Proposal for a law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 45, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39. So you've received the bill's proposals in boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the currently read draft laws? She has a respected deputy vice president at the House of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club, I propose and demand that the urgent procedures be removed from points 3 to 8, to go into the ordinary procedure, particularly because we believe that the adoption of such laws in the emergency procedure will prevent the wider debate that is necessary because it is extremely important decisions, but also because we believe that some of the provisions of these laws are not in line with the Constitution and that they will have long-term consequences on the economy, but certainly also on the lives of citizens and citizens. So I suggest we remove the emergency procedure, go into two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1108	I understood three, from three to eight, so one and two have no objections. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1109	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, we are in favour of removing urgency from all these laws that are not European. So when are we finally going to start getting into this Parliament laws according to normal procedure and in normal reading? No one's here yet. In particular, this law on changes, financing of local and regional self-government. It's such a subject that it really shouldn't have to bring forward from the shrubs and then correct some changes and supplements, changes and additions in a month when we see something wrong. So let us oppose the urgency of everything that is not European law in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1110	Thank you very much. If I understand, so you're asking to get off all the proposals, just read the drafts of the emergency procedure. We will resolve your proposals in a democratic way. We will vote on the government's proposal and your proposals. Well, let's get in line when we decide. Let's get this straight. Therefore, who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's Criminal Law programme, P.Z. No. 40. Who's in favor of an emergency procedure as the government suggests? ... /The noise in the hall. So we're voting for an emergency procedure? ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They all vote, of course. Who's in? ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I understand. So, the vote is who's in, who's in, who's in, how who's in. Thank you very much. Here you go. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 106 for emergency procedure, 2 against and 1 abstention. Yeah, but I'm reading with, yeah, the Rules of Procedure can't, so we'll put it in the ones that are in favour. [[Intruder: No abstentions.]] Thank you very much. So let's go to the next one. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the specific civil law programme, P.Z. No. 41. We vote as we say. Can we vote? Who's in, who's against, let's make a decision. Are we? Can we see the score? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 108 plus one 109 for... and 2 against established procedures for that law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on. Third, who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt caused by the economic crisis, P.Z. No. 44. Please state who's in, who's against. Can we have it? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes,... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll establish your intention and we'll repeat the vote. ... We'll figure it out now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will repeat the vote. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt caused by the economic crisis, P.Z. No. 44? Please make up your mind. Here you go. Are we? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 76 for and 39 against the emergency procedure agenda, are included in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis. Can we move on to bill four? Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, P.Z. No. 42? Can we make up our minds? Here you go. Results? I find that most votes, 76 for and 39 against the emergency agenda, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment. Thank you very much. Let's go to the next bill. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, P.Z. No. 43? Please engage and plead. Thank you. Can we get a score? Thank you very much. I find that most votes on the agenda are subject to the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Thank you very much. We're going to the next sixth draft law. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Forests, P.Z. No. 46? Please engage and declare by voting. Can we get a score? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Forests. Thank you very much. We're moving on to bill seven. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, P.Z. No. 45? Please engage and declare by voting. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, 74 for and 37 against. Thank you very much. We're going to the 8th Last Bill of Laws. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, P.Z. No 39. Please engage and vote. Did you make the vote? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. It's not working out. Now that we've put the vote on the agenda of the proposed laws, I don't think we should read anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1111	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I warmly welcome you all. We're continuing at session three. I also welcome Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac, Deputy Minister of Finance. I see you're... here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1112	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1113	Before we start?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1114	Before we start. In fact, it's been 60 days since the Parliament was established. I'd like to warn you that we've created all the working bodies, the Parliament is doing the right thing except for two. We have not formed a new Committee to decide on conflict of interest and the Anti-Corruption Council. We're sending the wrong message. I also have calls from the voters why they don't do it. I would ask the President of the Parliament to take steps to form these two constituencies as soon as possible. We're sending a message this wrong that we don't care about it, that it's our last hole in the play. I don't think that's true and it needs to be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1115	Thank you very much. This is not usual, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have given you my word that we would take note of it and we will consider your proposal. I haven't even told you to keep working yet, and Mrs. Vice President Kosor called. Here you go. Can I say we keep working?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1117	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1118	Here, I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break right now at the HDZ Representatives' Club because of tonight's arrest of the peasant protesters and for the reason and the way it happened. All night long until morning we received calls from frightened people, we want to consider it at a session of the HDZ Representatives Club and then, of course, report on the following steps. Thank you very much. We're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1120	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, president of the HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1121	Your Honor, Mr. President. For the same reason, the HDSSB Club is also looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1122	IDS too. Thank you very much. Here's break 9.50. Thank you, too. [[Thank you very much.]] We're going back to work. First of all, the president of the HDZ Club is Mrs. Jadranska Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1124	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ representative's club asked for a break, thank you very much for giving it to us before today's session because last night we were mostly Mr. Cobankovic, former Minister of Agriculture but some called me and some other colleagues from the club. So upset peasants, people who decided to protest to fight or fight for their rights, arrested and taken to police stations. What I also want to say here is that among the people amongst the peasants, among the protesters but also among the milkmen, among those who produce milk was actually a frightening fear, which is why the fear they have difficulty talking about. ... /The noise in the hall./... Yes, ladies and gentlemen. I'm surprised to say that, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP Club, you find that ridiculous or ruling coalition. Maybe it's funny to you, but the people who spent the night at the police station aren't funny, that's for sure. The fact is that some of the participants of the "Open" Croatian TV show were arrested, and then it could be concluded that they might be arrested for saying something, so because of the words spoken on a television show and thus we can interpret the arrests last night. We believe that from the beginning the government has not responded well to the protests, so the fact that Minister Jakovina has repeatedly refused talks, he said he will not talk until the protesters are off the road. And we're leading the country, of course, faced with a series of peasant protests. No one has ever decided to arrests like this at a deaf time the night the whole of Croatia sleeps and when no one or the media can testify to what is happening on the road and on the street. We therefore ask that the Croatian Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, come to the Croatian Parliament to explain why this happened, why this is happening, and what direction the talks with farmers, or the milkmen, will go in. Let us remember the recent past, a protest in Warsaw, for example, when police had to assist at the invitation of those who were legally called to seek police intervention in order to, for example. Some works, the investment works that were going on there, could continue. Then, in accordance with the law in broad daylight, the police intervened as the law was set, and if you can remember correctly, it seems to me that today's President of the Croatian Parliament and Mr Bernardić and Mr Kregar, but also many others, and Mr Milanovic, today's Croatian Prime Minister, went there. ... I mentioned you, Mr. President, I couldn't skip or forget you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, of course, it happened in broad daylight in front of the Croatian public, and no detail in the police intervention could go unsupervised at that time. This happened at a deaf time of night, this happened without the public, people were scared laughing at it or not. That's why we're asking for the Prime Minister's arrival. We certainly, as I believe, most of you do not want this to be a police state, that negotiations begin and end with strictness training, but that everything and police intervention happens in accordance with Croatian laws. Protests must be allowed and in this context observe the announcement to allow protests in St. Mark's Square to appear ladies and gentlemen in light of tonight's events as a clear farce. So the request is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament to explain to us what this is about and how the talks with the dairy farmers will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1125	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative and President of the Dinko Buric Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1126	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. First of all, on behalf of the HDSSB club, I would like to say that we absolutely support the legitimate demands of Croatian milk producers, Croatian milk producers and that we oppose any use of force against them. However, listening to what Vice President Kosor said earlier, I can't help but think that your hypocrisy has no end. You've had the same problems, and you've solved it the same way, you've solved it either by tricking peasants or by force. Do you think we in Slavonia forgot to push with the peasants at Vinkovci, do you think we forgot that you called your Croatian citizens Minister Karamarko the Indians when they protested. Therefore, it is better to cover your ears than to play concern for the care of Croatian peasants. And your policy has led to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1127	It's an expression of opinion. Please. Please, don't overdo it now. Here you go, Mr. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1128	Wait a minute. I have to say this, because Croatian farmers and peasants are in a situation in which they are largely thanks to your policy towards the Croatian village and agriculture in the last 8 years. There's something else I need to tell you. The new Croatian government has started badly. You can't solve a problem using force. The Minister of Agriculture must sit with Croatian peasants, with milk producers and seek solutions, not call the police. Don't just be second, always talk, be different power. It's not good to talk until you get off the road, you need to talk. The Croatian government cannot protect the new or any foreign capital, not the domestic producer. Do you think in France, and France is indirectly the owner of Dukat, do you think the French Government would send its police to its citizens to protect the interests of another owner, Croatia or not of any other state? Be assured you wouldn't. So I also call on the Minister of Agriculture of the Croatian Government, do not be stubborn but sit at the table and press the purchasers of milk, you have mechanisms. Press the purchasers of milk, and do not send the Croatian police to Croatian citizens. Take care that no one sits and sits for 10 days on this winter because he enjoys it, but because he has a hard time making him do it. And be assured that Croatian citizens, Croatian farmers, Croatian peasants and everyone else will persist in their demands. Don't let God spill and drop Croatian blood just because, instead of protecting our interests, our citizens' interests protected the interest of foreign capital. Milkers' demands are justified, the Croatian government must stand behind them. This needs to be resolved in a peaceful way. I also call on the Minister of Agriculture, I call on him first of all to come and sit down at the negotiating table and do everything possible to ensure that the legitimate demands of Croatian milkers are met. And what I've heard now, if I'd heard from anyone else, and not from you then I'd have said here's an honor. I can't say this again, you should be ashamed of everything you've done in the last eight years towards Croatian agriculture and the Croatian village. And we in Slavonia and Baranja won't be taught how to behave. Therefore, remember what you've been doing and how you've been acting and I'm telling the new Croatian government don't let the HDZ government be your role model for the past eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1129	First, I'd like to pray if we can discuss in one peace, not a noise. If that's possible for those in this room, I'd beg them to behave like that. And then I'd like to give my word to Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament for the violation of Rules of Procedure Vladimir Shakespeare. Behind that, Mrs. Djurdzici's representatives, the twilight. Here you go. I haven't seen any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 214 and 223a. The Rules of Procedure, MP Buric, speaking on behalf of the HDSB's Club of Representatives, severely violated the rules of conduct in this House, slandered, insulted the party's president and vice president of the Parliament, who spoke on behalf of the club, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, falsely imputed, insinuated certain procedures of the previous government. In this way, in an unequivocal style and tone, instead of explaining his club's position, he defamed himself with his lies, slandering the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, the club's president. It is an unprecedented attack on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I ask Mr. President to prevent such behavior at first because it leads to evil blood, which leads to a disturbing disturbance in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1131	I owe it to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament give you an explanation, Mr. Vice President, and I'll give it to you. I didn't see anything you just said. I saw an expression of the opinion of a club Mr. Buric made. I don't think he was offended, but he said in his own dictionary that he wasn't offensive to me, the club's attitude. If you are not satisfied, Vice-President Shakespeare, with my explanation, you have the right to contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system for further action. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, that's what you'll do. Thank you. Mrs. Sumrak, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1132	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I've also reported for the violation of Rules of Procedure by item 209 and 214. Because MP Buric insulted, lied not only about the president of our party to HDZ and the previous government, but he insulted all the farmers and all these milkmen who were arrested last night, and he insulted them most of them for falling before this government and telling them to arrest them, but don't let there be blood. That's sad of a representative from Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1133	I'm giving you the same explanation I gave Mr. Vice President Shakespeare. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. But please be specific as to why the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1134	Thank you. It is the same as Article 209 of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1135	No, no. Please! Wait a minute. You must, allow me, please. In 209, it is the basis for you and I as MPs to be able to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have to say some article about whether it's 214. Maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1136	209 and 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1138	So, first of all, Vice President of the Parliament Mr. Shakespeare and Mrs. twilight are talking about something that I haven't spoken of at all. We speak personally, as well as everyone in the HDSSB in a way that people understand us. It's not slander, it's not false, it's true. And the fact is, it's your fault that it's your fault that today these milkmen are protesting as the farmers protested and all these years while you were in power. And I still have to tell you like this. When you Mrs. twilight start to say something then it's really dark in Croatia. I don't really know what to say anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1139	Thank you very much. Correction, please, correction of an incorrect quote. You've already won. You won't pollemize through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I told you. You will not be polluted through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you have no right to do so under the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go. Just tell me whose quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1140	Just tell me whose quote. Mr. Buric, I picked up while Mr. Buric was arguing, and then he was referring to him. Now, Mr. Buric has made several incorrect allegations. I will in this correct his claim in context when he talks about disrupting protests, pushing with the police and so on. During last term, no protest was violently interrupted, nor was any of the protesters brought into the police station, nor was he detained there. The protests were held and we maintain that it was legitimately right. We never support roadblocks now, but protests are legitimately right and everyone has the right to protest. And they weren't disturbed even when they were doing trafficblocks, even when the locals of certain municipalities that were blocked were looking for a certain intervention intervention there was no. So it cannot be accepted that Mr Buric was treated in a similar way with the protesters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1141	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1142	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting Mr Buric's incorrect allegations that the HDZ government had sent police on farmers and that the HDZ government had destroyed the agriculture of Slavonia and Baranja. The truth is this: for 7 years there has been HDSSB, and for 15 years the same people who were HDZ today, the HDZ officials who forgot whose hands and which parties came out, so I would ask who really destroyed IPK Osijek with 4,000 workers? Who destroyed Slavonia and Baranja's farm? What kind of people are these? Change your clothes and forget what you've been doing. It's a shame. And it is a shame, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, to allow people to laugh and grin at the serious situation in Croatia from whatever side you sit on. It is a shame in such a way to lead the session of the Croatian Parliament. This is a serious problem for the Croatian people, not for laughing and grinning in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1143	I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah, I really don't know what you're talking about who was grinning and whether or not someone was grinning, I didn't see it. But if you saw you have the right to your own observation. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Buric, you have now lifted up, I have seen that you have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I know that you want to use it as a replica, but it was not a replica, it is a correction of an incorrect allegation and if you have noticed neither the Prime Minister nor the Deputy Prime Minister and the first and other Deputy Prime Ministers nor the members of the Government have been given the opportunity to react after correcting the incorrect allegations. So I'm asking you to adjust to that. We will have a chance to discuss the amendment to the Rules of Procedure soon, where we will suggest that the correction of the incorrect allegations be abolished and that we resolve it and remove it from the agenda. But please don't abuse it because it's really not the way to do it. And now you want to teach me my job all the time. I'm asking you to pull yourself together. Now you're re-elevating the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're going to start talking, but look, I'll take your word for it when you start saying something that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is that what you want? ... But you won't, look, you want to use it now as a reply to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, go ahead, go ahead, but I'm warning you I'll take your word for it when you start saying something that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1144	Mr. President of the Parliament, thank you for giving me your word for hurting the Rules of Procedure. The violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 214 of the esteemed counterpart Salapic did not correct anything from my incorrect allegations. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1145	So as I assumed you used a practical institute response to the replica you've now made... Don't answer that again. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mrs. twilight, you can all come in now and pick up the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can all do that, but it's an abuse... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, ma'am, now let Mr. Representative wait I, as you can see, have ensured that a representative of the government comes here because otherwise it's a cabinet session if you don't know about the budget. So, I've secured everything as much as I can, and now you go ahead and pick up the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1146	Thank you. I just wanted to say to Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that then you have the same standard for everything. It doesn't mean that someone's rude enough to get it, and someone who's decent enough to hurt the Rules of Procedure to take it away. You didn't allow me to defend myself twice, so the insult Mr. Buric sent to me, and now you've allowed him to cause a second injury to the Rules of Procedure. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1147	Of course you're wrong. Now you have not called on the article in 209 as the basis of any other article. You haven't called, but that's what I keep saying. You're just confirming that we should stop doing what we've done so far, at least in this part. Here you go, Mr. President of the IDS Club, on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1148	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Well, I think it's very good that the Minister of Agriculture has now come out and the Minister of Police has arrived. It is even better for the Parliament not to keep silent about these protests that have been behind us and ahead of us for 10 days. I don't see any reason for the Prime Minister's arrival even though we are God, it is the same truth that we regularly invite the prime ministers to such situations, but they would rarely be satisfied when the minister arrives. There is no need for hard words too, no matter where it comes from, and the same is true Mr. Buric when he says that the problem of the Croatian village is not from today. But I want to say something else. I'm 100% understanding milkmen. They hardly can if they sell milk for 2.3 kunas to be in the plus. With 2.3 kuna, no one in Croatia can produce a liter of milk, survive, or do positive business. I can't do that, gentlemen in the Chrysovci, I don't know where Bjelovar's mother is, I can't do Slavonians, let alone I don't know my Istrians in Humstina, Rostina, etc. And that's why what I see now is the supplier's willingness to correct the price from 2.3 to 2.4, 2.5, and hopefully it will eventually be 2.7 is something that promises. I want to believe he'll finally get close to the milkmen themselves. And another thing that is extremely illogical is not logical that the price of milk in 2012 is lower than it was in 2011. I see here literally exploiting not to tell the robbery of Croatian peasants. The problem, in my opinion, is not government, the problem is monopolies, the problem is Dukat, and if he sets the price, then it will be understandable in this country everyone will manage them. The problem is that the state simply sells out its monopolies. As Rajic or as it is already called, to get to Dukat no one in the country knows it, but we all know that Dukat sold Lactalis for neither more nor less than I think 270m euros. That's the money that ended up in Switzerland afterwards. If that money had ended in Croatia, then half I would have said Croatian problems in the country with the dairy industry would have simply resolved. It is a three-year incentive for the Croatian village. Clearly, on the other hand, Lactalis is not here to run social policy. They're here to make money, but not like that. Now there is a need to involve the Government in stifling the dairy industry of the Republic of Croatia and tomorrow, as was the case in the 1990s, to import again into this country. It is also clear that protests must not paralyze the state. There must be no harm done to anyone in this country, but I also want to say that for force if there was no reason, there is no need. Seeley should say no. I'm the last one who'd go after a peasant in the government or vice versa, I don't know the government of peasants. We need to talk, we need to sit down, we need to find a way to survive the peasants in these areas. The peasants today are not just cows and stables, there are machines, there are machines, there's land, there's industry, there's trouble, there's gentlemen there are jobs, there are loans concerning individual rural households, they reach millions of simply kuna. Milk isn't wheat. You sow wheat and harvest, and here is simply one continuous work in the barn 365 days a year. I know the boys from Clumsy. These are families that started producing milk from nothing there in the mid-1990s down in Istria. They saved those PICs so it wouldn't all fall apart. They've got 50, 100 cows, they've got land to rent everything on their drum. For such people who do everything by their work, this country must have an understanding, but I agree that Croatia's incentive policy should also be reconsidered. And to end, I'm always for conversation, there's no need for force. The problem has to be solved today and shut down by the state, but the problem is Dukat and monopolies and once again clearly encourages to reconsider and force to say no.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1149	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Cain made a few incorrect allegations, but I was stuck with the one where he said the symentals were giving milk. Inaccurate, my colleague Cain, they give cows of the symental breed. And I happen to come from that middle. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1151	Please allow the representative to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1152	I also accept the conversation in that section that we need to talk to these farmers, and of course about the support and everything else. But what I'm saying is that these people certainly didn't get along well on the road, that they've been doing it hard for years, and that they've also managed to create a certain envious production with these aids.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1153	Please, these are not corrections to the incorrect assumption that you're speaking further. That's why I'll take your word for it. Thank you. Here we are finished now talking to the representatives of the clubs who asked for a break. I understood because only Mrs. Kosor, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, explained why she is asking for a club session, that this is about informing each other and informing us about the consequences that have taken place because the negotiations have not been completed so far. And that's why I asked in this situation what it is, the cabinet session already started half an hour ago for Mr. MUP to come and that if it is necessary now after this debate briefly informs the Croatian Parliament amongst other things, as you Madam Vice President said about the arrests and that, of course, there is no debate on the Rules of Procedure because we do not have this scheduled to end and to move forward on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1154	... Mr. President. [[Speech is not enabled.]] I won't abuse the Rules of Procedure for sure. So you said what we were looking for at the HDZ Club, exactly, we were looking for the Prime Minister's arrival to get full information not only about tonight's events but about what's going to happen today, tomorrow and the future. In fact, if the peasants happen to be scared despite the fact that they are truly afraid to continue with the protests and there is no agreement, then we want to know what the government is going to do and how to resolve this issue. I appreciate Mr. Home Secretary's arrival, but he certainly has a full picture of this problem and the way it's solved can't give or we'll actually get an answer that every next protest will be solved in this same way. That is why we continue to insist on the arrival of Prime Minister Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1155	I've come to this conclusion that you from this president of the HDZ Club don't want to, so you don't need any information. ... I understood your search for the club exactly that's why I asked Mr. Minister to come. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I react as quickly as I can, of course. Now about what's going to happen in a day, two, three or three months it's really hard to say, no one can give you an explanation because the talks last. You've had conversations on similar topics, and you know how it looks. And we are trying to do this naturally with as little stress as possible for farmers and Croatian citizens, especially because everyone should come to their jobs, we should pick up the child in kindergarten and of course the citizens of Zagreb and not only the citizens of Zagreb were difficult yesterday when the Slavonia Avenue was blocked in both directions, so we know all that. But I'm asking you the same thing, look out I've given the lady now you're whining there please nice, and I've given my word to the vice president of the Croatian Parliament that she had no right to that word. Don't, please, don't, and now that I'm giving you an explanation of how we're gonna keep doing this, I don't think that's really nice, I don't think it's fair. So, once again I ask you had the need since it takes the government's session to explain this part of the interior you asked for or not so that he goes to the government's session and does his part of the work relating to the budget and other points of the agenda? I understood that there wasn't actually any.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1156	You of course have the full right as the President of the Parliament to invite the Minister of the Interior before you knew what would be the request of the HDZ Representatives Club before we spoke to the speaker of our demands. And your right to give everyone in the Croatian Parliament a word if you decide it is necessary. We will continue to insist on the arrival of Prime Minister Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1157	Thank you very much. So I understood, I didn't hear from other club representatives the proposal, even though he was already here at the Home Secretary's Hall, that information should be provided because it's already visible from the media what and how. Therefore, I thank the Minister of the Interior for attending the session, and we will continue to work. Goodbye, Mr. Minister. Thank you again. I have one explanation why we have to skip the agenda point for now which was envisaged, and this is the final draft of the Law amending the Law on Forests, because it is exactly what we could not have anticipated by the end of the Minister who would have wanted to be present here and talk about this topic in the cabinet session because that section relating to the amendments in the area of agriculture is very important and here, and the prime minister has asked me to come, and as it cannot be in two places I ask you to have the understanding that we are going to the next point. At least I announced this point yesterday so we can go back to it as soon as possible, given the circumstances I said before. I see you agree with that. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, continue the work of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the representatives of the State Audit Office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'll do it again while you say hello and I'll do it again. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session with the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom of Ireland/States of the European Union/ and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 51. 1. Proposal for a social care law, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Fifty. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 48. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Service Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 49. 1. Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the North Velebit National Park. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during employment, first reading, P.Z. No. 11, Proposer: Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 12, Proposer-Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work. 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Administration Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 13, Proposer- Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work. 1. Statute of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency - Confirmation, Transporter – Financial Services Supervisory Agency. 1. Report by the National Sports Council from 18 June 2010 to 31 December 2011, Carrier – National Sports Council. 1. Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINE from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011, with an update of the Report. You have received proposals for acts in boxes and Article 205. The rules of procedure are laid down firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. I ask, do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Thank you. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Let's first establish the quorum so I'd like to ask you to engage and confirm that we're here. So, you need to shine the light on zero. Otherwise in Bulgaria one interesting detail with just a card, just slips that it is present, then it's much simpler, we'll see what we can do. Here I can determine that there are 84 MPs present. Thank you very much. Now we're going to vote. I will now be if you agree that I do not specify all the names of the countries, so who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the 27 EU Member States and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of Croatia to the European Union P.Z. No. 51? Let's get involved and vote who's in, let's push plus. I'm sorry for saying so little about what to do but it wouldn't be like last-session mistakes. Thank you very much. Here's to the emergency procedure on this bill, 88 MPs have come forward, and two are abstentions and no one is against it. So there's no abstentions either. I therefore find that most of the votes on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between 27 EU members and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of Croatia to the European Union P.Z. No. 51. Let's move on to the plea. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Social Care Act P.Z. No. 50? Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes of 72 votes in favour and 16 against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal of the Social Care Act. 3. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Exemption, P.Z. No. 48? Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the majority of votes of 66 votes in favour and 9 against and 2 have been retained on the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Authorisation. Let's move on to the plea. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Service Act, P.Z. No. 49? Please, let's get involved and vote. We've got one problem, not enough MPs checked in. It's probably a lack of attention, and now we're going to have to vote manually for that part. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No one leaves the hall. I'm asking you to make a manual statement. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Customs Service Act, P.Z. No. 49? Please count. Who's against it? No abstentions, then I don't ask who's restrained, I apologize. So, I find that the majority of the vote is 70 votes in favour, 7 against the emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Customs Service Act has been included. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? Here you go, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1159	Mr. President. ... the other intervention does not allow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have any objections to the other proposal, but I have an objection to not including it in the agenda. So, the Croatian Labour Party Club on the same day when the laws were submitted under regular number 6, 7 and 8 gave a proposal for another law that is not proposed to be included in the daily work, and this is about the proposal for a Law on Public Use of Croatian Language. And given that the conditions for its inclusion as well as P.Z. have been met. 11th, 12th and 13th, please include him in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1160	Mr. Lesar, I do not have the obligation to put all the laws that you have proposed in the procedure at the same time for decision-making on the agenda, but I must remind you that for the last time the representative from your club Mr. Nikola Vuljanić has asked to be placed on the agenda of the laws that you have proposed. I said we'd consider it and I considered it and these three legislative proposals I thought should be included in the agenda that all assumptions were there for them. Let's say for the Colloquial Language Act, no government opinion has come yet, so please, you can go on now, but you'd have to admit the fact that we're doing things differently and that we've put your three legislative proposals on the agenda, and this one will come soon. Thank you very much. The completion of the agenda has been established. What I'm about to say was not the usual before, now please listen the same. Before we move to the first item of the agenda, today's session will be notified to you that we are planning, and I ask you for support for this, to discuss today you will now get a consolidated agenda for the session today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the continuation will be 14, 15 and 16 when we finish the 3rd session, but we plan to discuss today the first 4 points of the revision, to discuss tomorrow's Final Proposal for the Social Care Act, the Final Proposal for the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law of the Enquirement, the Final Proposal for the Amendments of the Customs Service Act, the Proposal for a Decision on the Decision of the National Park of North Velebit, and the 9th point would be reserved as agreed with the Prime Minister at 9:30 p.m.m. That's what I think it's okay to let you know so we can organize ourselves in clubs and we can work as hard as possible in these circumstances in a more organised way. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all! We continue with the work of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. I also welcome Mrs. Olgica Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council and her associate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session with the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 55 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 53 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 54 Act proposals have been received into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the emergency procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ, I object to the inclusion in the emergency procedure of the law under points 2, 3 and 4. So, first we accept, but these three are not because our Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws are passed in an emergency procedure if this is in the interest and important because of the defence of particularly important state reasons or that there is no disturbance in the economy. None of these three laws meet the requirements of emergency procedures, for example The amendments to the Law on Cemeteries are said to be a change that we should accept in an emergency procedure, that the cemetery is surrounded by the area of land where graves are located. So I don't think it really deserves an emergency procedure. Otherwise, the government has actually sent all the laws into emergency procedures. So the impression is that the state is in some state of emergency. And I ask the Government to withdraw the emergency procedure for these three proposals, especially regarding the Law on Officials, because the amendments to that law want to allow room for even more employment for those who meet the only criteria, which is a party similarity. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1163	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1164	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I would just like to ask a question when will we finally get one law into normal procedure? We seem to be living in a constant state of emergency. I don't see any reason why they should go into emergency procedures and why they can't go through a normal procedure. Nothing here is so urgent that it couldn't happen this week, and in three weeks, we'll discuss it again. This puts us in a position to actually serve more or less as a machine that lifts left or right hand into the air. We don't have time to discuss or consult, and that's, excuse the expression, but the outing of parliamentary and legislative procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1165	Thank you very much. Does anyone else report from a colleague or co-worker on the matter of urgency in the procedure? You will now be a little surprised, you from the opposition, and I advocate that the laws go according to regular procedure because I stood up for myself and when I was in opposition when you didn't do it. So I will, yes, because I had the chance, of course, and that's what I say you'll be a little surprised, so I'll also ask the government to keep as many legislative proposals as possible in regular procedure, and that with special reasons, it goes into emergency procedure. ... I have nothing to fix when I've been like this before. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Let's first determine the quorum. Please, how many of us are here? 99. Thank you very much. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants? Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. So the majority of MPs 67 for, 25 against and 7 abstentions have decided, and I say that most of the votes on the agenda are included in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, P.Z. No. 53. Second, who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of the Council, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities, P.Z. No. 52? Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Councils, the coordination of Councils and representatives of national minorities, because it is 68 MPs. Please leave me alone, I'm not finished because 68 MPs voted yes, 24 against and 3 were abstentioned. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries, P.Z. No. 54. Please, let's get involved and vote. Mr. Konig, you didn't vote. Please score. Just one small break, please count how many representatives and deputies there are in the hall. But count it anyway, please. Thank you very much. I find that we do not have a quorum to vote on this point, so this legislative proposal goes according to regular procedure, the Law of Amendment and the Completion of the Law on Cemeteries, P.Z. No. 54. Finally, as regards the proposal for a law implementing Regulation No 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, it bears the code of the PZE and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure. Therefore, the addition of the agenda was established, except for the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries with the Final Proposal of the Law, because we did not accept it to be included in the agenda because we did not have a quorum at that time. Allow colleagues and colleagues before we move to the next item of the agenda for which I estimate it will not last long because we have all three debates filed until four, you will see this later if one of them gives up because it may not be here, to remember the National Protection Day and the National Protection Day. May I have your attention, please? "The Croatian Parliament last year established by law that the National Protection Day in the Republic of Croatia is being declared the mention of National Protection. The National Protection Units were founded 21 years ago on a voluntary basis with the aim of defending legitimate authorities, citizens and states from major Serbian aggression first in Zagreb and then in all free Croatia. The voluntary provisions of the People's Protection are Croatia and we thus express our gratitude for their outstanding contribution to the Homeland War. Members of the People's Protection have taken over the country's defence at the most difficult and crucial times when Croatia did not have the weapons of defence against attacks on its sovereignty and freedom of citizens. The National Protection Voluntary Orders were responsible for carrying out a number of defence tasks, and one of the most important was the blockade and conquest of the JNA military. This carefully and secretly prepared action has led to a strategic change in the ratio of forces to the battlefield. The psychological effect of the action was immeasurable. It has been shown that the creation of National Protection has expressed all the determination and aspirations of Croatian citizens to defend the Homeland and build a free and democratic Croatia." I therefore call upon fellow MPs and MPs to pay tribute to the dead members of the People's Protection for a minute of silence. A moment of silence, may they have eternal glory and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1168	Since the conclusion of the club, joint clubs of the HDSSB and Croatian Labourists... I'm asking why we're asking for a vote on that conclusion. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It's a debate that has several clubs in this morning's session looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1169	Okay. Is it? I must inform you that the proposal for a conclusion has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I cannot even consider it, let alone the vote. Because the procedure is the same as bringing in other acts. Here's what I want to tell you right now, and then I can't put it to the vote because it didn't go through the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 180 to 184. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. Mr. Dragovan on behalf of the club? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1219	Yeah. Please, I'm asking for a break on behalf of the SDP club. The theme is to read about the current morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1220	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1221	It's also a break for the club's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1222	Here you go, Mr. Representative, I've seen Mr. Salapic before, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1223	We're looking, of course, for us, that is, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. However, I would like to conclude that this is an absolutely unusual practice to seek a break before the current morning and that it is actually difficult to ask the questions of members and members of the government. So, unusual practice, but we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1224	We'll see what this practice will bring. I'm giving a 10 minute break. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs, we will continue our work. First, I would like to invite the representative of the SDP Club Mr. Nenad Stazic, vice president and representative of the SDP Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1226	To explain why the SDP Representatives' Club at this session will not participate in the current morning and will not ask questions to either the prime minister or the minister. Namely, this session was called upon by the agreement of all clubs in this House to discuss all aspects of Croatia's entry into the European Union ahead of the referendum this week. However, our Rules of Procedure predicts that each session begins with the current morning, meaning by asking questions. What kind of questions could we ask our ministers who have just entered their offices, who form them except for the state of their ministries. What to ask the Minister of Agriculture is it true that the debts to the peasants are twice as large as those presented by the former minister. Let's ask the Minister of Labour if it's true that pensions are paid to people who don't have working days. DO WE ask the Minister of the Interior whether it is true that someone who has submitted or initiated criminal charges against opposition leaders had to be appointed as his adviser, as this provides for the existing Law. But it would be a conversation about the past, it would be questions about former ministers, not the present. We want to show that we're not only going to be different, but also different government, and that's why we're not doing it. We could ask all 15 questions to the prime minister as it has been around the last 8 years, whether it is true to the prime minister and prime minister, is it true that the world has never been, will neither be better, fairer, fairer power than this one. So if the prime minister or prime minister responded that the MP was right, then there would be a frantic... applause. We're not going to do it today, we're not going to do it ever, because we want to show that we're not only different, but we're different authorities. For our successes if they are, we will be responsible and we will be proud, for our failures we will be guilty and responsible and we will not transfer that responsibility to anyone, not to Racan's government as it has been done 8 years ago, but not to the Government of Ivo Sanader, nor to the Government of Jadranka Kosor, we want to show that we are not only different, but also different government. We don't want to talk about the past, we want to talk about building a future, we want to build it together with the opposition, we don't want to reject good proposals just because they're opposition, and we're going to be not only different from that, but also different government. As the prime minister said, we can make a mistake, but we have no right not to try, we have no right to be cowards, we have no right to be dishonest, and we call upon the opposition to help us. Let's make this Parliament a place of meeting ideas, quality of discussion, mutual respect and tolerance. I explained why we will not participate in the current morning today, because we want to be not only different from different authorities. It's up to you ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to show what the opposition will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1227	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Radosh on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1228	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. The Institute of Representatives is a very important Institute of Communications of Representatives, through representatives of course of the Republic of Croatia with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of course it should be used to a large extent rather than to be improved and given new forms such as in most parliaments in the world. But as we know, this session has been called upon to be revised, to sum up, to recapture everything that has been done on the way to the European Union and to help to help put forward the referendum that is the most important political event ahead of us, to promote through this session, and given these two circumstances, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will also not be asking questions at this session, but so we believe that these issues are not only a mere propaganda of government's work but should be welcomed, promotion of good government policy but also more than that. There should be an opening of the issue of focusing on important issues and helping the ruling majority and parliamentary opposition to resolve some issues because that is why we are both here and the Government and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1229	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Croatian Vice-President Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1230	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. First of all, I must once again conclude that this is a precedent that, before the start of the work of the Croatian Parliament, before the start of the work of the Croatian Parliament, it is said and determined by the Croatian Constitution which clearly states that after 15 January of each year, the Croatian Parliament must work and convene a session and that the session starts with the current morning. So the precedent is that, before the current morning, a pause is sought and that clubs talk about their reasons why their representatives will not ask questions. It is the right of any club, you can ask and you do not have to ask, but the right to ask questions to the government is the right of representatives and the right of those who elected us to the Croatian Parliament. And therefore we are surprised that the ruling coalition's representatives have nothing to ask their ministers, especially the Prime Minister, because that would mean that even those who voted for the ruling coalition's representatives have nothing to ask the government. Namely, this government is the Croatian government and all of us chosen are certainly entitled to ask a question on behalf of those who chose us. Secondly, at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament when we agreed on this session, we did not agree that it would be or that it would be just a session where we would talk about the EU, that such proposals were at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, that this session would begin without the current morning we would consider it, how would it be against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. But if someone from the ruling coalition had such a proposal, we would have considered it at Parliament's presidency. There were no such proposals, and it was clear that the session would begin with the current morning. So at the end of the question, why Mr. President, why this agenda? What's the point we agreed on? To what points you have complemented today's agenda, if you thought this was a different session of the Croatian Parliament, which should not begin with the current morning. After all, as you can see, we are wasting our time, rather than the MPs who have something to ask the prime minister and the government are asking questions, we are discussing why SDP and HNS representatives do not want to ask questions. I guess that'll be some next practice then. I would like to tell Mr. Stazic that your representatives could have asked the government and the prime minister about all these questions that you have instructed. So, on all the issues you're interested in, and they're related to the work of the past government, and I believe that there would be a fellow ministers who would have something to say. But we would certainly get involved or some press after the current morning or in some other way. There would be questions for the prime minister here and from your benches for the prime minister and for the members of the government. First of all, maybe why it's so sloppy, for example. Amended executive law? Why did some laws model according to some members of the government? What does Mr. Prime Minister think, for example? on a request submitted by the club or HDZ for the assessment of constitutionality relating to this law already called a piece of the law in the public? Why are they only employed as we see similar ones? Itd. And so on. So there would be questions for both the prime minister and members of the government. It is your right not to ask, and our right, gentlemen, is to ask. And I therefore ask the President of the Croatian Parliament not to bring this practice before asking questions to the Government anymore, because we are wasting time and we all have other obligations, so please allow representatives who have questions to the government and the prime minister and ask questions. And in the end, I remind you of the practice that the current opposition from the current morning and until the current morning of the session actually promoted, which is asking only the prime minister, asking questions that were humiliating in which there were extremely many lies and meals, but we survived it, and then we'll also have the fact that you have nothing to ask your government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1231	Thank you very much. I'm just an explanation since I've been repeatedly called. As last time, and now I have prepared myself a little better because I have studied the Rules of Procedure thoroughly, to say the answer to the question why, as chairman of the Croatian Parliament, I did not suggest that we agree whether there would be an Current Hour or not at a regular session, because I cannot do so in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as you yourself said. And besides, it's hard for only two people to negotiate here. We need to make a deal, all of us. But I'm not up for any deal that's against the Rules of Procedure. Next, if you noticed a representative of a club was looking for a five-minute break. I said 10 minutes. You know why? Because in the Rules of Procedure, Article 223a writes for at least 10 minutes. So, so long as such a Rules of Procedure exists we're all bound to stick to it, so I especially have to take care of it. And as for changing the Rules of Procedure, I was alone and I've already brought out what I think, so I expect others to make proposals and we'll meet on the agenda soon. So let's move on to advocacy issues. The first is for the parliamentary question designated by the draw, Mr. Nejad Hodzic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1233	My question is for Defence Minister Predrag Martic. Mr. Minister, with all due respect to all the victims of the Homeland War, regardless of their national, religious and foreign belongings, and with all due respect to all the participants, and especially to the disabled of the Homeland War, my question is, do you have any information in the Ministry of Defense on the number of persons with disabilities and victims of the Homeland War of the National Minorities? I am asking this because in public very little is known and very little is said about the extremely large contribution and the sacrifices suffered in the Homeland War by members of the Bosniak, Serbian, Albanian and other national minorities, many of whom have not resolved their status to this day?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1234	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1235	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much for asking. So we Croatian defenders know very well that in our ranks during the Homeland War there were very many members of all national minorities living in the Republic of Croatia and we are very proud of it. However, in the exercise of the status rights stemming from the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, the nationality of any Croatian defender is totally irrelevant and irrelevant. Therefore, we are proud to participate in the participation of members of national minorities in the Homeland War, but we are not keeping any special records in the Croatian Defence Ministry. The only relevant and very important information is whether someone was a Croatian defender or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1236	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, are you satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1237	I'm grateful for the answer. I didn't expect you to answer that question exactly. But I ask you, in your term of office, now that you have taken that role, to take this account. In fact, there are 1,100 victims among Bosniaks alone, so an enormous contribution is disproportionate to how many of us live in Croatia. And please nice, there's trouble solving the status... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1238	Thank you very much. Next up is representative Mr. Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1239	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to Minister Slavko Linic. Mr. Linic, in August not so long ago, the question I apologize for having to ask you, but here, I would take advantage of my parliamentary right, in August you said that it was not a good practice for the president of the party, referring to Mr. Milanovic and the Prime Minister to be one and the same person. You said then that in the practice of the late Ivica Racan it was not good and that your position was that the president of the party and the Prime Minister should not be the same person. I'm asking you today, you're in the government, if your opinion today is so, given that you made that statement not long ago in August. You remember that interview, so I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1240	Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1241	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. What's to answer this question? So I think that's the question they're talking about in front of their colleagues in the SDP. It's my political position, my political thinking, and I think I'll share it with the people of the SDP. When we talk about the Croatian Parliament, it is my job to think about finances, to think about the state budget and share with you the problems that are related to that part. Therefore, my political commitment to the party will not be shared with you and I do not intend to share it with you, and the SDPs will know very much about my opinion because it is not a matter for all of you. Therefore, I do not intend to share it with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1242	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1243	I'm not happy with the answer because there are no stupid questions but there's something else that's stupid. I think you're Mr. Minister now in the government and it's my legal right to ask you, given that your opinion may affect the government's work. And since you are very often convinced of the change in your opinion regarding the IMF, regarding VAT, I recommend a nice book, I wanted to buy you but there is no regrettable, it is called "To change the opinion-art and science of changing opinions". I think that's what you're an expert at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1244	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1245	I want to ask Prime Minister Milanovic or Minister Komadini. To understand gentlemen from the left, no propaganda, no incursion to the government or anyone else. And the question is simply of the Istrian Ipsilon, why better put forward the work, because it's all going to agree, at least living in Istria, is crucial I would say an economic question for Istria. 2011 Istria has put into circulation 110km of fast roads, on ipilon waste 75km which were released in 2011. It's almost a historic event, from the no-pasian in Istria it didn't happen. Now, I am no spokesman for Bujik, nor do I know anyone there, I know many of the 2,000 people who work on the Ipsilon or have worked, I know many of the owners of 200 small companies who worked there and they all ask whether they will return to work there in the fall when some promises should start digging Učka tunnel, i.e. building a road from Pazin to Učka, which could de facto become one of the largest construction sites in the Balkans, not only in Croatia. I personally even advocate to extend the 30-year concession to Bujiku, which began to be consumed in '95. For years, so we've been eating it for 12 years. The state in the budget provides an annual cca 15m euros for the contract. With 15m euros per year Croatian highways build 1 or 2 km, and works on the Učka tunnel, shares of Pazin-Učka-Matulji cca 45 to 50 km, with 5 km of tunnels would last about 3 years, which is huge, huge for employment, I would say that the Istrian so-called Croatian, once-word domestic operatives. So the question is whether the government is considering extending concessions with Bujik so that compensation from the 15m euros in the budget may be reduced and whether it is possible to say the continuation of works on tunnel digging and this road from Pazin to Učka, i.e. Matulji starts at the 11th, 12th or 10th month of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1246	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1247	First of all, my first performance at the current morning, good day to everyone and I believe in quality cooperation. This current morning, let me say it, is not a negativity or an attempt to negate any right to speak and ask questions. This would be anti-business and non-democratic, but the reasons presented by HNS and SDP's clubs are the current reasons and will not be valid in the future. Dear colleague Cain, I will refer to you all as colleagues in the future because we are originally colleagues, we have been elected to the Croatian Parliament of Croatian citizens, and that we are currently on this side as executive power, which we are willing to do in the majority of the Parliament, but we are colleagues. A brief answer to your question, a road construction in Istria and a continuation of the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon. The model that was set in the '90s was unfavourable for Croatia, in 2000 the concession motto was changed and has been seriously initiated to date, continued and almost finished by the construction of highways in full profile in Istria. At present, we are very close to ending or serious talks on the continuation of such a concession construction model. So my answer is very close we agreed on that topic, it's a concession, it's not a budget item or mostly not and as a model proved solid. It was changed in 2000, it was taken over by the government, the HDZ government, it continued to operate, the results are visible and is currently talking to the corporation that you mentioned here about the continuation of the model. As far as road construction is concerned, Croatia has done a great job building highways. The Croatian highway network is at first sight and according to objective statistics among the better in Europe and the job is of course not completely finished but is near the end. There are other things waiting for us in the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1248	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1249	I repeat, this is an historic project for Istria. If the road goes to work then 2000 builders return, without it Istrian operatives, it is part of the Croatian operation is simply a coat, it is finished, with them a good part of the material base of Istria and the Republic of Croatia. I agree absolutely with you, there was a dispute, I agree. The contract was a shame. Mr. Cacic is 2001. Modification of the conditions of this let's call it a harmful contract, but after that the fact was built a hundred or 120 don't catch me by the word of a mile of fast road. The route is projected, land is purchased, but banks now approve, with greater interest, certain loans for the financing of the stock. The state gives those 15m euros a year higher than the concessions, and ultimately I know, everything in the end, every concession will be broken on the back of citizens who pay tolls. But without it, we would break the operation and I want to believe that in a relatively short time a deal will be reached with the concessionary and that it can be said by the gentlemen of the workers, the builders there somewhere in the fall of 2012 this year can count on the continuation of the existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1250	Thank you very much. Following the question, he also applied for the draw by a particular gentleman representative Vojislav Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1251	Dear Presidents of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government, Ministers. My question is for the ministers of regional development and the European funds of Mr Branko Grcic. Last year, the government made a decision to buy apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia for former tenant rights holders outside the area of special state care and in the territory of the Croatian Danube. A large number of citizens applied for the purchase of the apartment and completed the necessary documents. So far, no apartments have been bought. We ask the question why is that? The fact is that applicants of older age, that the right to purchase an apartment is a personal right that is not hereditary and delaying the solution of this issue raises questions and the meaning of this right as well as government decisions made, as many citizens will not be able to achieve it for their lives. My question is what is going to be taken by the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds to speed up this process, and former housing rights holders bought their apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1252	Thank you very much. Minister Branko Grcic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1253	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so this is a really serious question. You're right when you say there are a really large number of demands in this area. It's about 1200 requests in the past year that only 6 contracts have been made, so it's not yet concluded, but it's awaiting a decision by the State's Attorney's office to confirm those contracts before they're realised. Justifications why it's going so slowly isn't there. Therefore, we who are coming to this ministry are currently in the restructuring phase, and these procedures concerning the implementation of certain programmes in the context of the care of exiles, returnees, refugees, and we will certainly do everything possible to ensure that these items are resolved as quickly as possible. There's another problem. So one part of the requirement applies to Croatia's Podunavlje especially the town of Vukovar, where our ministry does not have direct jurisdiction but is within the competence of the Audio Agency, so we do not have clear information about what is going on here. We are only taking part here with our representative in the committee to resolve these issues since our representative has not been to a single meeting so far. It means no meeting ever happened. Therefore, in that segment, we will certainly encourage the audio to start solving this problem. Here, if you'd like some more detailed answers, we'd be happy to deliver them to you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1254	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Mr. Vinkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1255	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 214 has been injured because MP Stanimirovic has humiliated all of us, so I call on the State's Attorney's Office to first examine Mrs Ruzica Erdeljic, who was raped while she was imprisoned in Vukovar, and I believe that the State's Attorney's Office can check it very quickly, her statements on Mr Stanimirovic's participation during the Serbian-četnic occupation, during these ruthless events in Vukovar Don't beg me, but ask the President of the National Attorney's Office to examine it urgently. [[/Intruder President: Please! Are you done?]] That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister and the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1256	You know why I wanted to interrupt you? Please! Because you did not, no, because you did not respect the very provision of Article 214. Don't take shifts now, please, because I'm giving an explanation as chairman where it says we're going to teach a little bit: Look, you have called on this Rules of Procedure if he does not stick to the subject under discussion in his speech, talks and has not received the approval of the president, his incursions or otherwise distracts the speaker, to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of an incorrect statement, and to start talking about another subject which he has not received, defamation or insults of the President or other MPs, by his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly and, in other ways, disrupts the order at the session. Yes, you have called upon the wrong regulation of the Rules of Procedure. And in the future when you speak, let me just tell you, when you speak again, I will interrupt you. That's what I wanted to tell you. Mr. Representative Stanimirovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1257	Mr. Minister, I would like to believe that what you have now said to both your ministry and the Audio will, from now on, act differently and in accordance with your statement and that these issues will be resolved more quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1258	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1259	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Assembly... I already joined once, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Among the first activities your government has undertaken were proposals from two laws voted in last session of the Parliament. It is about the Law supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which for the first time opposed and European practice and the legal decisions of our existing legislation, you sacrificed the general principle of conduct of the leader at the local level for the individual interest of your government members, thereby amending the law de facto insulting both the desire and the will of the voters who showed in the last local elections. At the same time, you changed the Law on State officials where you abolished jobs that were the highlight of the careers that people in the state service could achieve in order to replace those places with political duties that were the same description as jobs that were until then professional jobs in the state administration. This gave you the same description of jobs that the directors of administrative organisations once had, the secretaries of the ministries now attributed to state secretaries, i.e. ministers with one big difference, that they no longer need to carry out the tender, that there is no need to have any qualifications other than political similarities to carry out such tasks because no more control of the ability of these people is necessary except for the political appointment of those duties. My question is, is this the new, professional, well-equipped and secure administration that you have advocated in all your public statements?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1260	Here's Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1261	I thank my dear colleague, and once again I appeal to everyone that this House is not a denunciative forum in which criminal or alleged crimes are being handed down, but rather a place of dialogue and criticism. This should be true for everyone, but in the end, everyone will evaluate it by their conscience. You mentioned two laws that were amended at the first session of the Parliament. Your question is suggestively capricious, i.e. it's a little ironic. We believe that this administration that we are going to form and develop is exactly that professional, professional and quality administration. We'll try to prove it all the time. A concrete answer to two examples that you have cited. The first concerns the amendment of the provisions in force, i.e. the course of the mandate of the directly elected leaders of units of local self-government, so the mayor, mayor and mayor. We have introduced an amendment that is immediately expected to be condemned as an adjustment of the law to an individual. I'm saying the opposite. I claim that the change is fair, that it is correct to the citizens, that it does not distort their will. There's a series of examples in the world for that. I could say that the law was misspelled, unmistakably, that it did not predict any crisis situation, that it had not resolved the relationship in any way between the representative body and the head of the units of local self-government, that it did not clearly determine who was responsible and why not to adopt a basic act, which is the budget of the unit of local self-government, etc. That's what I mean and that's what I said publicly. The change you're talking about is only done so that citizens don't have to go out and elect local self-government leaders twice a year, today and again in regular local elections. Why? I expected you to object otherwise. In fact, it is a local self-government unit in which our coalition achieved a huge result just before the amendments to the law. If we had called elections, it would have been to please our people and to extract citizens and to spend 5, 6 or 7 million kunas to prepare people for regular elections. We didn't want to do that. To end the response to this part, to show you, but not intentionally but completely spontaneously to have good intentions, there are several other units of local self-government, one on a Croatian island, central Dalmatian island, on which, just after leaving the municipality's chief of staff in the coalition, the Chief of Staff will become a member of HDZ who is deputy chief. And it was done on purpose, so that's to show, so you understand what I'm talking about. So it's not any personal law. It's savings. And secondly, the deputy mayors of mayors and mayors were elected on the same ticket, on the same ballot with mayors, so if, for the end of this part, here's an analogy, if the American Vice President can take over the chairmanship of the most powerful state in the world, if something third day of office happens to the president, then you will accept my argument and racio may also deputy chief or mayor do it half the term. Second question, if I have time, and I don't seem to have it. So, I went too far. The civil servants of these changes to introduce new political places, you're right. However, together with the minister, deputy minister and number of assistants who will be significantly less than the number of directors will reach in ministries between 4, 5 or 7 people. These are all in the ministry chosen by political criteria and below have a system that is huge. It's a minimum of respected colleagues. And you, as an expert on administrative law, know very well. It's an executive issue, and only then, ultimately, a political issue. And I ask you to respect that, and I believe you share my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1262	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1263	... And I'll try to tell you in a very short time why. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Unlike you, I haven't talked about any specific unit or locals, and in this case you're talking about, it's about a unit of regional self-government. I'm just saying that you sacrificed general principles that apply in the modern world to individual interests of some who should have acted without a reference to which units are involved. And since you're asking that, I don't think it's comparable to the strongest and the weakest countries in the world. This is a question of trust in the results of the election and what was possible and known to voters who opted for certain leaders who gave their trust. We do not live in a monarchic time so that they can transfer their powers to their deputies, nor has our law ever allowed. And as for this second part, it's about politicizing the state administration. In this way you have led to the fact that the highest professional calling in the state administration is the head of the sector or even the lower head of department, and thus the system of progress and motivational cycles in the state administration has been reduced by at least a lower level. I think it is completely wrong, and it is against the obligations that Croatia has made to depolitise the state administration to the highest levels of professionalism and affairs in the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1264	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac has asked for a word. Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1265	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS, I'm asking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1266	Ten minutes? I'm setting a break, a break for 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. Ministers, please. Please, you can take your seats. On behalf of the SDSS Club, there is a word Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There are people, there are in this sense advocates whose words a man would rather not say anything when he hears them and when he hears them from someone else's mouth. But there are situations where he has to react, no matter how he doesn't stick to these people or to those MPs, or to their words or even less to their parts, but he has to react because of other people, and he has to react because of this place that we do our job as people's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1270	In this sense, colleagues and colleagues of the Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party have acted and will act in such a way that they will not, in any of their own words and in part, humiliate this Assembly or the mandates that we have. But we're also not going to let any of us party to which we belong and the work we do belittles ourselves with slanders, lies, which have been told outside of this House, as is the case with Dr. Vojislav Stanimirovic, president of the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club, slanders him and lies that he spit on people who were imprisoned during the war in the Vukovar area and spit on them in passing with a comment. That's the thing that dr. Stanimirovic has proved before the court as he has so far proved before the attorney's office and has made himself available to the attorney that it has established the fact and has so far not established any facts about the previous lunches, slanders and lies, it will do so now. And don't run away from our judiciary. As some have fled, which some of our MPs here celebrate as heroes rather than criminals, and carry badges in this same assembly and it doesn't bother anyone, but it bothers when an honorable man puts himself at the disposal of the court after someone brings slander, lies and after they here under oath repeat themselves by one representative. If such a thing continues colleagues and colleagues, and I can say it because I have more than 20 years of experience in this job, a similar experience my colleague Stanimirovic has, the SDSS's club as it could not have asked a question in a valid way will conclude that it cannot do its job properly. I'm sorry to have to find that out in the circumstances that we've completed one of the most significant jobs that we've done as a party and as a state, but this behavior isn't just unEuropean, it's embarrassing, it's not a decent man, and I'm not going to say about a representative who swore to the highest value of this country that it's not worthy of. And in that sense I expect Mr. President to be for this party, we didn't think it would happen like it was a few years ago, two mandates ago creating conditions that could work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1271	Thank you very much. You raised your hand, Mr. Buric, for what? You have to say for what.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1272	I'd like to pray on behalf of the club for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1273	Okay, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, and we're going to continue exactly at 11 and 10. Please, let's get back to work. The word has on behalf of the HDSSB club a representative, president of that club Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1275	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I had to ask for a break on behalf of the MPs' club because of the words spoken this time by the president or Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. First of all, on behalf of the HDSSB club, I would like to say that we consider it inappropriate to qualify and judge without any evidence, and in this case, Dr Stanimirovic, and I agree that institutions should do their job. This is becoming serious indications, but we don't need to be these judges and what Mr. Vinkovic said invited the DORH and the competent institutions to do their job, but let's really leave it to them. We need to talk about all the topics and so on about this. The way it is said may seem appropriate or inappropriate to someone. Here's what we think wasn't the most appropriate thing. However, I must tell my colleagues to Pupovac again, that anyone in the Croatian Parliament, and this time you said it bothers the badge that I wear and other representatives of the HDSSB, I must tell you as long as we breathe and as long as we enter this badge, we will not give up. I reacted on behalf of the club because you indirectly called the Croatian hero and Croatian General Branimir Glavas innocently convicted in a politically motivated and mounted process and this badge symbolizes our position and this is our right to both about him and all Croatian generals and about General Gotovina, and about General Markac, and about General Mercep and about the late General Brodarac and all innocent and accused Croatian generals and heroes, this badge symbolizes our position and our relationship with all of them. So please don't lecture us either, give us instructions on what we can speak in the Croatian Parliament and how we behave. Branimir Glavas is a hero of the Homeland War, Ante Gotovina is a hero of the Homeland War, Mladen Markac is a hero of the Homeland War. And Mr. Pupovac, I'm not going to say anything to you right now, when it comes to Branimir Glavas, then I remind you now that we know very well, and that should be known to the Croatian public and your role in the political installation and the preparation of the political elimination of Branimir Glavas. Yours, there is a note from the Croatian Embassy in Washington in 2004, your conversation with Mr. Charles English in which you made a promise at the time by the order of the former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, that you will solve the problem of Branimir Glavas and eliminate him from the political life of the Republic of Croatia in every way. And you took part in this package, Mr. Pupovac and the Croatian public should know that. We want to settle this situation on behalf of the club now. I would especially like to stress that we do not generalise when it comes to the responsibility of any who participated in large-scale Serbian aggression, we do not generalise by nationality, we are not talking about Serbs, we are talking about those who wore a Chetnik uniform. Those wearing Chetnik uniforms should be responsible for that. There are many members of the Serbian National Minority, as other national minorities have been said today, who are proud, as the minister said, of their contribution to the creation and defence of the Croatian homeland and Croatian state. But those who were on the opposite side will have to face that fact. And I will finish, there have been a lot of speeches about whether a Croatian general and innocently convicted, who lies in a prison in Mostar, Branimir Glavas can either be a candidate in the elections or not, and it is normal that someone who is absolved and just because he is not convicted can be a representative in the Croatian Parliament. But let the institutions do it. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I once again say, this may have been an inappropriate way of doing it, but our attitude remains the same when it comes to the Homeland War, the attitude towards Croatian generals and the attitude towards the heroes of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1276	Thank you very much. We continue to work on parliamentary issues. Mr. Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1277	Thank you very much. My question was addressed to the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy to Mr Radimir Cacic. Do you have a plan, even if it's a secret to saving metallurgy and metal industry? In the pre-election plan 21 of your Kukuriku coalition, you stated that the commitment of the coalition is to encourage the reconstruction of the Croatian industry by all available measures. I quote this. You further state that the state will be involved in solving the problem even by entering the ownership structure of the debtor companies in marketable cases. You further state that Croatia must have a clear policy towards the future of traditional industries such as other metal industry, petrochemicals and oil processing and chemical industry. Based on that plan, you've been given the trust of the citizens. The government programme of the Republic of Croatia states that the government will pay particular attention to seeking a solution to the survival and preservation of employment in industries that are in the most difficult position such as the textile, leather and footwear industries. No mention of metallurgy and oil processing or chemical industry. Is this a message to the citizens of Sisak that they've already given up or that there's no point in reviving a clinical dead man? Whether the visit to Sisak was a calming of passion before a referendum on EU accession, you do not need problems at a time when far more important decisions are being made. Your programme also states that the government will encourage the restoration of the Croatian industry through all available measures. Does the metallurgical industry even concern itself? I must point out that TŽV Gredelj is also in a bad situation in Zagreb since HZ has given up ordering low floor new trains. And just like that in the end, don't forget that your decision at this point depends almost on the entire town of Sisak, but not only him, it's 916 not workers but 916 families, then 250 workers who are without severance but who have been fired before and their families. It's 750 employees of cooperative companies that are in the Circle of the Sisak Irons, and it's a Faculty of Metalurics, which definitely loses its meaning if it abolishes...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1278	Time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1279	Thank you very much. It's also the workers of Herbos, Segestice and everything else that's gone down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1280	Thank you very much. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1281	Thank you very much for asking, Reverend Novak. So you noticed, and you're probably not the only one, that the first visit made by the Prime Minister and I was Sisko on a truly unusual day, on New Year's Eve itself, I think it was Saturday. The talks that were held were not a media show or were attended by journalists and television cameras, but that is why trade unions and administrations and mayors and mayors and mayors, so all the stakeholders in this possible solution to the problems Sisak is really burdening at the moment. It's all true. We've found a complete wasteland. A suck where the refinery almost doesn't work, in which the ironworks stopped working, in which Herbos is in bankruptcy, that everything that had happened before, and I don't count. The task is not simple. What we said there was very precise, and that's what we think, although it can always be worse, of course, but we think that's the bottom below which Sisak can't go anymore and we're going to make it impossible for that crisis to have another bottom. Namely, Herbos could have shut me down but he won't. As Government, we have guaranteed that Herbos will continue to work no matter what he is in bankruptcy, so of course he goes on producing and the government will stand behind it. The refinery will again work at full capacity, it is our clear position, it is our position as a strategic ownership partner in INA and we will of course turn our attitude into quite concrete shifts to launch, production after the fire that took place, and to this day these productions are not launched. Whether it's just a matter of fire or even a whole series of other factors, whether it's reasonable to suspect that there's no desire to start production, at least not in terms of which it was and which it is possible, it's not up to me to speculate on it. It is up to us, at the Government to make your clear position and publicly spoken, and this is full production on first-class technologies Sisak will be restored and we will realize it during this year. As far as the hardware store is concerned, that's one I'd say new in this market system of ours over the last 21 years. Until now, we have not met often or almost never with the situation that a first-rate company enters the property completely into the structure of a serious company, invests huge money, pre-size is 200 million dollars, obviously with very serious business intentions and with an increase in production and employment, so according to all business parameters, that this company, due to primarily to a number of circumstances on its own market and within the company's ownership relations, and in part to the Croatian market, the amount of energy prices, especially electricity, the fact that they did not get a HEP license due to network disturbances and some other difficulties decided at one point at the end of production, decided to pay off after 200 million dollars had already been invested, all of its liabilities, all its compensation, payment of all the fees, all of which the company did not have... please? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruder: Time.]] I'd love to stop, but this is one topic that's... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I can tell you everything in two sentences and one, sir, however you like. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1282	Here you go, but cut as short as you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1283	If you want me to give you one serious answer to what Sisak can expect. So what's done here is that one company that has a complete ownership structure is currently going out on the market with one offer from a company that she invested $200 million in. I'm sure she's not interested in losing it. We can and we have to help, we said quite clearly how. Support to remove a 30% anti-dumping product that makes its products uncompetitive, issuing a permit they didn't have by HEP, so some shifts in standards both in the network and in the treatment, we all said we'd take it right on ourselves. Of course, licensing is in our hands and it will be realised in the next month, relations with the European Union will be when they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1284	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1285	And the third problem that has arisen here that connects the entire spectrum of other companies on Željezar is the resolution of the infrastructure and we will resolve it. As for Gredelj, Gredelj leaves immediately with Končar, along with Djur Djakovic. It is true that 800 million are invested, it is true that they are doing nothing, that the government has abolished complete investment programmes, the former government, has shown an absolute irresponsibility. We'll make that right. Trains begin to produce in Gredel All the rest of you ask me another question next time I'll keep telling you about it. [[Intruder President: Please finish.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1286	Thank you very much. Before, here's your word, I'm just suggesting if you agree to hear the answer then. Here you go, Agent Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1287	Since you've announced some whole solutions, I'd like to ask the answer in writing, because this is what this is all about. Let's just say, Herbos, you mentioned the whole solution, to Željezar Sisak all together. If it's not a problem in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1288	I agree with you that this requires one full answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1289	You can't get a word in. Mr. Chacic, you can't get the word. Ms. Kosor reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. And Mr. Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1290	Thank you very much. Mr. President, on behalf of my club, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have violated you as President of the Croatian Parliament and Mr. Radimir Cacic, Vice President, in fact the first Deputy Prime Minister, that we know what we're talking about. So, because Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister has repeatedly violated, that is, exceeded the time allowed to him by the Rules of Procedure. I think he's been talking for, like, five minutes or so. So it's certainly not allowed. And we've been listening here to a pledoies instead of a precise answer to a representative's question, and as we've seen, thank you for letting me speak after the MP responded. So even after the MP has the right to the Rules of Procedure to say whether he is satisfied or dissatisfied Mr. First Vice President is also unauthorized again without your permission and fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure has re-applyed to the word. I ask you to really treat everyone the same way as the members of the Government who have business provisions as well as the representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1291	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European I would ask you to warn all members of the government that the answer to the parliamentary question may last for a maximum of two minutes exceptional if it is an important matter for 4 minutes and that all adhere to it. Representatives who overstep time in asking questions warn you what is good, but I think that this relationship should also be given to members of the government. This is the first current morning. We can understand the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure from part of the government, but I would pray that it does not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1293	Thank you very much. You and Mrs. Kosor and Mr. Representative Lesar are right. But I did if you noticed and you probably didn't let Mr. Novak break the Rules of Procedure a little bit, so yeah, just a little bit. Please! Wait till we make a deal. We could be like a Swiss watch, you know we break up right in a second. We can do anything. It's just a matter of whether or not. It's all right! I think sometimes it's good, or else if someone's missing 10 seconds to make that 10 seconds or 15 possible. It's the same in answer, especially when it's a subject like this, and it's hard to select. I thought this public interest wasn't just us here so great, and I figured it was a good idea for an agent with a question to pass a minute, but of course with an answer. That's me. I handled it, but I'm saying you're right. So we're all right in some way except that we're the Rules of Procedure stuck to this case 100% and I said that for what reasons. I think it's a wider public interest, and I think the most interested are the workers themselves from the Sisak Ironworks. Can we go on? Mr. Representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1294	Dear President, my question is to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Zlatko Komadini. Namely, with the dynamics and the envisaged operational plan of the previous Government, the St. Ilija should be completed by the beginning of the 2012 tourist season With what dynamics will the Resolute Ministry continue the road from the St. Ilija to Imotsky, a road that not only traffics but also economically revitalises the entire Imotski province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1295	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1296	... that the construction programme for this period until 2012 provides for that road. [[Specially enabled.]] At this point, we are in the process of reviewing our full obligations. It's also about the highway that goes down to the Panel, including this section for the St. Iliu. In the plan of the Croatian highways it is, but it is also at this point a review of the total financial obligations whether these works are ultimately possible to be financed because I must say openly, part of the contracts that have been signed and for which no financial resources are provided have been found. I'm not saying it's specifically this case, but there's that. We need to see the full financial picture of public companies, because they are heavily over-indebted, i.e. they are so heavily in charge that they can take on new financial commitments so that, in due course, they will give you a concrete answer within the next two days.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1297	Thank you very much. Here you go. Satisfied?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1298	Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1299	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1300	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is addressed to Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and concerns security checks that are necessary and necessary for officials, i.e. for deputy ministers, for ministerial assistants and for others who will be appointed by the government in certain resolutions. Did you get them, did you have them, did you know who you put in certain places in certain chambers for deputies and assistants, and whether you respect the Labour Act, the Law on Civil Service and Retrieval. Is employment in the ministries going according to that law in competitions or is it going without it? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1301	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1302	My friend, as far as I know, he's in a state service contest, but the question wasn't concrete, so I can't answer him specifically. As for security checks, I don't know exactly what security checks you mean. Namely, when it comes to NATO standards, they need to be passed by everyone in the country unless I'm wrong about the Prime Minister, the State and the Parliament. That's what I was working on a dozen years ago. I don't do things like that. We're not looking at the files. If you have any specific questions, ask me specifically, and I will answer you in the best of faith. But as far as security checks are concerned, all those who come into contact with a certain type of concentrated material towards the EU and NATO must pass that standard check done by Croatian services in a form prescribed in Brussels, or Washington. And that's right, you know it well. And for anything more concrete, ask specifically, so I'll tell you. As for checking, so other types of checking, the résumés of all people are trying to be people of reputation, honor and knowledge. Where political functions are at stake, where the state service is concerned, competitions are held. That's all I can answer right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1303	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1304	Well, I can't, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, be pleased with your answer since, as you said yourself, you've been working on these jobs and you're aware of the responsibilities for all those you, as Prime Minister, accept in your restours and place in certain places. I would not like to read the names of this Croatian House, but I would ask you in writing to provide me with an answer for all your deputy ministers, assistants, as well as for the chiefs of cabinets who are without competition employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1305	Where the competition is predicted, he must be pleased. Mr. Representative Branko Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1306	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll ask the Prime Minister a question. Dear President, I believe that you remember and believe that we all remember that the government passed, the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor made a number of decisions and measures in terms of rationalising the state administration, reducing costs, so budget expenditure, and one of those decisions was that my proposal by the Minister of Defence at the time was to move the ministry, i.e. the headquarters of the ministry from Kresimir's square to the space of former military "Croatia". The decision is also clearly linked to the decision to move the Ministry of Regional Development to Krešimir's square, to reduce the expenditure that the Ministry of Regional Development alone had annually from more than 20 million kunas for the space where it worked in a rented, therefore foreign space. The same decision was also linked to security issues, the arrival of therefore high officials, protected persons in the city center, where the very security situation is far more difficult, related to traffic jams that occurred in the city centre. So the government then made that decision. What amazes me first, and I believe all of us, is that on the first days of the arrival of the new minister the announcement of the Ministry of Defence's return to Krešimir Square. You have announced that this government of yours will take great care of all costs, of rationalising business, and I am interested in what you think of these defence ministers' announcements, given that it is really well known that in the matter of, I repeat, security and traffic, in terms of finances, it is a far more favourable location in the space of former military "Croatia".
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1307	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1308	Dear colleague, if you have asked me a question, so if you consider this a matter of interest to the public, I am obliged to respect it. I don't know the details, but the general picture is clear to me. The state spends a lot of money on renting space, so we try to cut it down, most seriously. You'll be able to comment on that in a few months, whether we're successful or not. As for the security assessment and the traffic in the city center, you've probably passed in your duty a lot of the world as I have, and you've seen that such ministries, if we're already talking about this, are located everywhere. Zagreb is not New York, neither is Berlin, neither is London. So, as far as the location is concerned, I can hardly share your opinion. As for the costs here, I trust my associates because in the end, we're all going to have to start taking bills very quickly, so we're going to see what's cheaper and what's more expensive. As for the very representativeness itself, if it's up to me at all to comment, I'm not sure it's a military, active military, the best place, with all the connotations that go by the military, the best place to install the civilian ministry. But it's not crucial again. It's okay. It's okay. Usually these things in the world are separate, but I stress it wasn't the only motive. So the motive is savings. Why did you move the Department of Defense that was traditionally placed there in the military, I don't attack you for some reason, we didn't pollemize about it, we won't call you for it. So they're saying to me that this is a savings, that it's more representative. But I repeat, you asked a question, I answer you as best I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1309	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vukelic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1310	So certainly I'm not happy with this answer because I appreciate that you trust your associates, but I also asked you to check out a little bit of these allegations because I can also think as some bad guys think that maybe some people want to go back to the city's centre closer to some shops, and it's also closer to some on foot to Ibler Square where the SDP headquarters is, so maybe it's the same... But the fact is, the savings of moving the Ministry of Regional Development to the area where the Ministry of Defense was over 20 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I believe that it will guide you in your decisions, not anything else whether someone is your associate or not, whether you believe him or not. And by the way, it's also to say that I'm a former space, I'm stressing ex-military, it's not military, it's been used so far before moving for parts, for segments of the Ministry of Defence, and that there's a possibility of selling construction land over 60 acres is that space, so for building purposes, it's just the financing of the move, so without spending taxpayers' money, it's possible to move all parts of the ministry there. And I'm just asking you, and that's why I asked you, and I asked you a question, that you give your associates some tasks, how rational it is to respect and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1311	Time, time. I said we'd tolerate 10 seconds, so I think we have to. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Davor Ivo Stier's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1312	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, you promised before this House that you wouldn't replace the experts, that you would respect the profession as much as possible, and you asked us to keep your word. So I ask you if you knew that Minister Ostojić had just replaced professional people with the National Commission for Medical Insemination in one way that he did not even invite them to talk to explain or call them, phoned or even thanked them for their work so far, but they found out from the e-mail that they had been replaced. My question is what will you do to correct such an intolerant behaviour of your minister towards people who are professional, whose only crime was apparently to professionally explain what the science of the 21st century says, namely that human life begins with conception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1313	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1314	Thank you, dear colleague. ... It's not about any crime, there's no crime, but there's a certain worldview and attitude. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] At that attitude and the worldview, we've been given confidence in these elections. As for the appointment, I repeat once again what I said, in the state administration, in a narrow sense the words in the ministries regardless of the objections I heard this morning, which we always take into consideration remains a huge number of people who have had high or medium-level duties in their places or in one place lower, these people have no threatened career in any way and will not have and you know it well. As for the appointment, your colleague Djakic's previous question, these appointments are in the National Journal. If you want, we can sum them up and you'll get them in the aggregate, but it's all published in the People's Newspaper. So, here it is done when it comes to medically assisted fertilization, in one political difference there are not too many of them between the left left and the right, your position has been explained and translated in the end into a legal model for which we have promised voters in Croatia to all, not just our own, everyone, that we will change it and now we are doing it, we believe that we are doing a moral thing, a useful thing and a demographic good thing. Here's while we're talking I've been on my email for the last day and a half over 1,500 emails, it's a little spam on the subject and I'm an embryo, so people are organised to send and protest against the change of laws, but our political attitude was different that this law should be changed and adapted to some other standards and to professional scientific ones. In that sense, I believe, and I am sure Minister Rajko Ostojic is thus structured by the commission in which I believe the other side will be heard. But I also plead that we don't have a passion for this because it's also a world-famous issue, but it's also a matter of expertise. I'll finish. We talked about this in public both in the Parliament and in the public, making arguments that we were careful not to encourage low passions, so we will behave in the future but the Minister and the Ministry of Health in the implementation of our programme, which is not unconstitutional, has the right to co-workers and I ask you to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1315	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1316	I am not satisfied because the question was precisely how the minister did it, we will discuss the substance when this Law comes,... the way it was done, intolerant without even thanking people for the work so far shows just one tendency of intolerance, precisely one very important question we are talking about about human life and it is very bad and that is why I cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1318	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I'm going to ask my first vice president of the government a little chateau. Given that we know that this government has indeed done everything at first, Mr. Cacic, that it has humiliated all democratic standards and constitutional standards, especially when it refers to public administration or politicised it. However, as the first Deputy Prime Minister has said, you promise the people that they must be on a diet, you bring in some new taxes relating to the tax in the impoverishment called in public. However, Mr. Cacic, I will ask you to explain to the people and the Croatian people on your own example a single syntagm that with less income they will still have more property. Because here you are in a court of law in Hungary under oath that your receipts are 1000 euros, or some daily newspapers carry 5600 kunas. Looking at your tax card and as mayor, and now we see that you have two apartments, an apartment, that you have a part of the village settlement, that you are in reality in several companies, and by the mahogany of Con-inga co-owner, so you are interested in Croatian people how that with their small incomes you can get so one property and the team will be proud and even if there will be time in those 4 minutes to tell me if you will visit Israel as the first vice president given the famous work of the century there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1319	Thank you very much. First Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1320	Thank you very much, so Mrs. twilight has asked a question and Mrs. twilight, of course, I will answer. As far as politicization is concerned, I'm not sure, but it seems to me that my deputy was the secretary of state in the HDZ government and before that, the assistant minister. So, it's kind of hard for me to connect it to politicization. My current special adviser for shipbuilding was the secretary of state, the current assistant minister was State Secretary for Public Administration. So, I guess you didn't pick a very good person to politicize with. All that's worth and can do is remain and will remain in the ministry and I'm sure that's the case with other ministries. As for my assets and hear that unlike some I have come from entrepreneurship, my property has been generally known forever and is easily followed. And here I publicly invite every financial police department, every tax administration to follow her. You have already done so dozens of times, so just at the request of your representatives, to call from the ranks of your MPs, not only were there others, let's say Mr Letica, now I don't mention other names, Mr Bosnjakovic, the Minister of Justice of the HDZ asked the State's Attorney's Office to report and quote in it: "After detailed years of investigations, there is no doubt of the legality of Mr Cacic's actions during his actions," you can read this Parliament got. So, so much for property. As for the visit to Israel, I have been to Israel many times, I will be saddened again by the damage that the company I founded and led there suffered large, but it was not the only one, many companies sometimes suffered damage, and sometimes they benefited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1321	Thank you very much. Madam Representative twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1322	Thank you very much. I am, of course, not happy with your answer, because you still haven't answered how with 5600 kuna you have two apartments, an apartment and everything else, but what's worth to you Mr. Cacic and these governments is following, I don't know if you heard what he asks carpet floor, he says I'll cover you. It's your relationship. I'll cover for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1323	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1324	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic. Mr Milanovic's usual practice in democratic states is that the project that started the government that preceded the newly elected government continues, so the change of government does not condition the suspension of projects that have already been launched. Unfortunately, that practice seems to be what you, your government, are going to inauguration and stop some of the projects that the previous government started and that have worked until you came to power. It's about the Peljesk Bridge and it's about the highway towards Dubrovnik. In fact, from what we could hear from you after you took office as Prime Minister, we heard that you would stop building the Pelješko Bridge and that you would build some highway that wasn't intended for our plans or the county spatial plan or plans in municipalities and cities where the route was intended, so some highway across BiH. So it's really inappropriate for us to stop these projects. First of all, it is your duty to enable equality for all Croatian citizens. If these projects stop Croatian citizens from the Croatian south will not be equal because they are not even now equal with other citizens because they must cross the state border twice to go from their part of Croatia to the rest of Croatia. Therefore, I ask you today that you are the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia not only of the SDP, please treat all citizens equally as the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The question is, do you really want to leave Croatian citizens in the Croatian south still isolated and in an unequal position compared to others, with their position further getting worse and becoming unbearable by entering the Schengen area?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1325	Thank you very much. The word is made by Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1326	Dear colleague, I will not be underpriced to questions, but I do not understand this question. So, you say on the one hand, let me comment on it for a second, to deny Croatian citizens in southern Croatia a relationship with Croatia. That's not true. Before that, you were talking about a highway that wasn't in plans to quote county and municipalities. In the state plans in our plans in your plans, that highway has nothing to do with the Peljev Bridge. The Peles bridge is unfortunately not built. He has been standing for years and unfortunately and unfortunately, and I ask you to stop this practice. He served as a political coin for cheating, seduction, charming, without being built. That's not how a serious state behaves. The highway via BiH territory, with the consent of the neighbouring country, which will tomorrow be a member of the EU, serves as a link between one part of Croatia and another part of Croatia, the southern part of Dubrovnik County and the northern part of Dubrovnik County. You know, I'm like a politician and a person who wants to get votes, not at all, I hope and believe in it, and then I listen to what people are thinking. Especially where they live. I try not to lead people into a fight because people in some other parts of Croatia view it with considerable animosity. And you come down, then you watch how people supported our coalition program, okay. Because they know we're not lying to them. Building the Pelješki bridge means building a new road over Peljesac. These are huge investments that have not been seriously worked on so far. The highway was the part of the Adriatic-Ionian highway or served only to Croatia as a buckle to avoid this discomfort that you are talking about that doesn't make me happy, I go to Dubrovnik 10 times a year, almost always by car. It just doesn't make me happy, it just bothers me, you lose some time there. It's not hostile territory. If we built those 10km north of Neum and reunited them on Croatian territory somewhere around Slanogo, we avoided it. We meet the phytosanitary conditions and all other veterinary conditions of the EU our people drive faster. So, the highway to Ploca from the Neretva Valley to the territory of BiH according to Slano, and that is already a big solution for Croatia. So is it possible we're not sharing the same opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1327	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1328	Well, unfortunately, I can say we're not sharing the same opinion, Mr. President, and I'd say maybe fortunately, because the Peles Bridge was working. I don't know if you've been down there, 150 million kunas have been spent down there. It's huge money. A lot of money has been spent. So 150 million kunas I don't know maybe your first vice president is funny 150 million kunas, but I think it's very important for Croatian citizens 150 million kunas. The other thing is, it's got something to do with building a highway. Your minister said yesterday that the highway to Dubrovnik would be repaired, so it wasn't about the highway. I'm glad if you've changed your mind if you're saying today it's going to be built the way it's drawn in the space plan of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so through Croatian territory, and only the back of Neum, it's only a few miles away that bypass that's being talked about the corridor behind Neum, it's foreseen in the plan and it connects not on Slano but on the border with BiH. Therefore, in Croatian territory, I agree here, if you really said exactly what you think today, then we agree on the view of the highway. But don't give up on the bridge because the bridge means one security, connecting Croatian territory to one whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1329	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1330	It's not hostile territory, but it's another state, and you have to understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1331	Thank you. Mr. Igor Chesek's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1332	Honored President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy, Mr. Radimir Cacic. Citizens of Virovitica-Podravska County, one of the poorest counties in the Republic of Croatia, have recently been extremely concerned about the events surrounding the fate of two recent manufacturing giants. It's about "KIO Nuts" and "Slatin Guy". The question is, what is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy planning to undertake to address this problem, which is of immense importance to the fate and lives of many workers and members of their families?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1333	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1334	Mr. Representative, thank you for asking. It's really two huge problems. What's unstandard here is that we're actually talking about two quality companies with a market, with a good product, with high-quality and excellent technology and for various reasons they got into trouble. KIO reinvested, now sold. It was sold to a serious, successful, stable company that knows the area of business, in the end line doing the same job as you know, and I'm pretty sure that 46 million that company gave to KIO, which of course is worth a lot more, but in bankruptcy it was sold, didn't throw away. Not only am I sure but I also discussed in detail their business plans and a large part of KIO workers will continue to work in new production in the same halls which, of course, requires some additional investment, the same thing that happens at the end of the day in some other companies. As far as Guy is concerned, the unions have launched bankruptcy. A little unusual, unusually because there was the willingness of new owners to start production, the consent of banks, the consent of creditors, the market. Why, we can only guess but it's not up to us to divulge. What's for sure, that Guy is one of the top-notch, it's somewhere near my former profession that I used to deal with and I've worked a lot with Guy, it's a first-class construction, very attractive in every way. Guy will also continue this production, so none of these companies will be liquidated, neither will stop producing, both will hire no number of people of course who had, not in the way they worked but it will be successful companies and the government will help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1335	Thank you very much. Representative of the Czech Republic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1336	I thank you for your response, and I am pleased, but I appeal to the Government and the Ministry of Economy to do everything more quickly in order to make workers' claims in the Kio case... And they paid Slatin to the workers, therefore of the sum of the money which you mentioned, 46 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] We know that on a partial hearing it is agreed that workers get only 2.5% of the amount, and it is known that the biggest believer is the state, so please, I urge that their claims be paid as quickly as possible to the workers as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1337	Thank you very much. Representative Mr Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1338	Thank you. A question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia will provide financial assistance to the County of Požega-Slavonski County, which the previous set of HDZ county authorities through zero financial transactions and crime has practically pushed into bankruptcy or will be disbanded by the County Assembly and early elections. One quote: "If the state doesn't help us, the county will fail, we'll just go bankrupt.", said the mayor of Pozeko-Slavonian Marijan Aladrovic of HDZ at the end of last month, answering the council's council member's question about the specific debts of the county. This year there were two loans left in Hypo Bank that the county took over in late '03, '04. from the County Road Administration, which was in the meantime liquidated. Credits are in Swiss francs and due to the exchange rate difference these loans today amount to 65 million kuna. The county mortgaged a good share of the assets, and income can't pay even interest, let alone the principal of the debt. The county budget for this year is 106 million kuna. In this year, the County planned assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 25 million kuna as regards the coverage of these credit commitments and 3.2 billion kuna of regular ongoing aid to the county from the state budget. Without these funds, the county will not be able to function in 2012. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia thinks about this threatening bankruptcy in which Požega-Slavon County is located, a county that has taken 21st and last place on the UNDP competitiveness scale for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1339	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1340	Thank you. Dear fellow, the answer to the question of the financial state of the county with which you are obviously connected and which is completely legitimate to you on the one hand, is not for me to comment, although I constantly comment, on the other side with similar, perhaps not the same but similar problems come many others, and also those who are from our political quota and I cannot make them promises you are ours, we will fix it overnight. We need to fix the system. Unsustainable spending comes at a charge, irresponsible management comes for payment. It's a cultural question. So this County won't go bankrupt, it can't happen, not any other or any third, whoever was there in power, whoever was mayor and whoever had the majority in the assembly. But we have a problem, we need to reform the state administration system, we need to decentralize the country but not a way to fragment it. We have to let people decide their lives where they live with some money. Currently, Zagreb manages almost everything, the worst situation for this kind of reform may be, and the problems are just piling up, one, the other, the third, the tenth. So we will definitely sit with representatives not only of Požega County but also of all others who are in trouble looking for a model solution for Croatia. Croatia is centralized as if it is waging a defence war. It's past time. Croatia must be decentralised, and then everyone's responsibility for their own wallet and their own finances will be greater. The way it works, everything's centralized, everyone's complaining there's too many municipalities. These municipalities have a total share with the minimum resources in public consumption. No one's satisfied. They are not satisfied in Istria, they are not satisfied in Požega County, the model is not good. This isn't a party issue anymore. It's a principled answer to your question, so no one's going to go bankrupt but that the problems are big, that they're the result of a bad model and that we finally have to learn that. Thanks, I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1341	Thank you very much. Representative Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1342	Thanks for the answer. I note that it is about debts that are not due to bad business policy or wrong political decisions but rather about clean crime that is too late, therefore because of the poor work of the competent state authorities, which are police and the State's Attorney's Office were not recognised and sanctioned in time. So the thing is, that's why they started to continue these debts. On this side, it is also an indirect responsibility for the state's responsibilities because they worked in competent state bodies that did not at the time prevent, crime and corruption. Thank you, please, a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1343	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1344	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, although I almost gave up seeing that he can't anymore, that he has health problems but the issue is health issues. Mr. President, if you didn't happen to give up God suddenly get sick, would you look for help through an ambulance or would you rather have a specialist examination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1345	Here you go, Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1346	Thank you for asking, Doctor Milinkovic. We're not colleagues here, you're a doctor, and I'm not a doctor, so I would ask you to answer that question. So the question was whether or not God would get sick if he asked for the first emergency service or specialist service. These things depend on where I live, how far the nearest health care facility, which is the kind, is that KBC, general hospital, home of health, is that private practice. There's no point in me explaining your question right now, obviously you have a plan B and I'm being betrayed by the voice. When you're riding a bike, close your mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1347	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad you respect doctors, but you would also mention these, some order, but unfortunately you didn't mention the ones most important to the law, because the Minister of Health, Dr. Ostojić, is a doctor of family medicine. And then he promises to take 5% of their head. I can't accept that either, even though my voice leaves me. No, of course we don't want you to be sick, to go to the waiting rooms, but I believe that for the Prime Minister, the waiting list would move a little bit. But another thing I'm trying to say is that there's a little more to worry about than the problem that you may have been dealing with in your political activity with a little bit of medical technology, i.e. You took a scalpel for painful cuts and you didn't promise them in your 21st program, painful cuts in a way that would increase VAT, then property tax. I suggest you scalpel in writing. Talk to the citizens, because where the scalpel cuts, there are scars left. It hurts a long time, and the people remember it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1349	Thank you very much. Here's another doctor, Agent Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I too have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. Are the exact media announcements that the government intends to introduce a property tax? According to these allegations, the most difficult tax would actually hit the poorest, or poorer and medium layers of the population, of which many decades have worked hard paying off loans to build a house or a smaller holiday house, and now, under quotes, they should pay 15, 20,000 kuna a year. Many also have buildings inherited from grandfathers, grandparents in rural areas that are often in poor condition, and now they would have to pay huge sums of taxes for them. Such a tax would, of course, not hit at all or almost at all rich, because they mainly have their villas, castles, yachts and planes registered as company property anyway, and not as personal property, so such a tax would be extremely socially negative, which I hope especially you from the Social Democratic Party would not want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1351	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1352	Thank you, dear colleague Reiner. The property tax has all the states. Croatia has a municipal fee. It's not the same. And for some reason all these years. Whatever decision we make in the end, we won't make it so it can be made at the government and see the light in the Parliament the next day. That's a very delicate question. We talk about some other tax issues much clearer and more decisive – VAT. Unfortunately, at this point, we have no choice but to make tax reliefs, as well as incentives, both on the release or return of taxes on reinvested profits, as well as on some taxes, such as on dividends which Croatia did not have, and could and should have. And so on, and so on. As with the tax on special telecom services that you have introduced, the previous Government introduced and then predicted that they should be abolished from 1.1. We decided to extend them. We feel that we are making a necessary, good and just decision. You can always make a mistake. But you have to try. We think that's a good thing. Property tax. All of this you have stated is a fully-founded thinking and a possible objection. It's all to be taken care of. But property tax as a category will have to exist in Croatia. It's everywhere. It's not possible that people who have a lot don't pay taxes on that property. This is not possible, and in Croatia this is currently possible. The problem of a potential blow to the middle class without which Croatia is not a country of prosperity, if there is no middle class, Croatia is not a country of prosperity we see the problem. Many people in Croatia have built and acquired this property through work, denials, brick houses over 20, 30 years. It's no different if they're paying a communal fee now or a tax of 1000 kuna a year for 5 or 10. This can also have a negative impact on the real estate market. It can get speculators in there. And so on and so forth. So, which would buy that property cheaper. These people would start selling overnight something that they couldn't keep complicated. So when we talk about this, we talk about all these problems, but we also realize that on property tax at one point we have to start crossing as well as to decentralisation, as well as to change the situation that often attacked municipalities, cities and counties only spend 10% of the public money. Only 10%. It is not a problem for Croatia. The other problem is that everything is being decided in Zagreb. Therefore, your comments are acceptable to me. They're on our heads and hearts. We make sure that we don't introduce a single tax that will be detimulative, which will lead to the sale of assets and that will kill people in the concept and paralyze economic activity. But I'm done. Taxes on property. Find me a land that doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1353	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here's a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I question the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. The Požega-Slavon County is because I have been coming from Požega-Slavon County for a long time in an extremely difficult situation for known reasons. Without the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, its survival is questionable. So I ask you, Mr. President, if you have the desire and will to help Požega-Slavon County and its problems have arisen from a time of 7, 8 or 10 years ago. Whoever is responsible for this should certainly be affected by the institutions of this country, but there was certainly damage from the period of SDP rule, so six years ago. And that is why I ask you if your wish is possible and feasible, and since the President of the last Croatian Government was chaired by Mrs Jadranka Kosor by direct means helped by Požeko-Slavon County with 19 million kuna. I also want to tell you that long-term obligations are 70 million kuna, that short-term liabilities are 20 million kuna and I want to tell you that the original budget is not as my colleague said from Požega 100 and something million but 20 million kuna is the original budget from which this obligation can be returned. And that's why the survival of Požega County is really questionable. And as you said, it doesn't matter who's in power, it's important that this government as well as the previous government helps the county and for the damage that has been done sooner or later let it answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1355	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1356	Thanks, buddy. You answered the question, so you saved me some time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, of course, the government cannot and will not run away from responsibility for every crisis in Croatia. The question is what state and what measures it can and can address. What should be done in companies, public administration sectors or public enterprises that are state-owned, monopolies, for example, and where companies that are one through one in private ownership are concerned. When it comes to counties, we'll never be able to bid on 5, 10, 15 or 20 million kuna in this way, but we're looking for a model that will in future disable this state, which will not happen. There are other counties in Croatia, no questions asked. Some relatively wealthy counties have severe financial problems. It's not a good model. So it would be incorrect of me to say I'm coming with a bag of money. I'm coming with a bag of proposals, with a little bit of money for everything the same and some solutions that we're going to have to adopt together. And that's all. If we have such an honest relationship at first then we will avoid discrimination in the political origins that we observed, because there was someone else in power there, if you remember six, seven years ago. So we don't want that kind of relationship anymore. There are people living there, there are obligations, the county won't fail, but there are other counties in the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1357	Thank you very much. Representative Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1358	Thank you, Mr. President, but we passed the law, so the last government has just passed the law as well as how units of local self-government can be in debt, as well as county. Therefore, the law has already been passed and, without the consent of the Ministry of Finance, this is not exactly what happened. At the same time, however, I must say that the county is doing everything and has done everything, and yet, in cooperation with the National Bank and the Croatian Roads, it has reduced by 20 million commitments, but at the same time, the County Road Administration has received the same obligations. So I ask you to really do everything possible to try to solve the problem of Požega-Slavon County and all those living in those areas in the short period of time, and indeed it is a short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1359	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1360	I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic, and with the idea of a question so that you can answer with one sentence because your throat hurts, so answer specifically. The most common issue that Croatian citizens ask us is not about painful cuts. It's about a cut that's amazing for them. Although you have been preparing for power for eight years instead of going out with the programme of specific ministers of your government to release test balloons and confuse the public who is interested in whether you really want to give in the concession of the Croatian forest and do you mean to give in the concession of hydro-electrics from which the cheapest electricity is produced, do you mean to give in the concession of the Croatian highways that we have already built? Then, do you really mean to sell companies of strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia such as the Croatian Post Bank that should be strengthened and left in the hands of the state, such as Croatia's security that operates with plus and which can operate far more positively, Podravka and other companies? It's a matter of financial sovereignty that we'll lose if you do. Please respond briefly and clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1361	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Mr Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1362	Thank you. The program is a program, it has its foundation, the worldview, and the government is life every day. The worst thing is, after you start doing the job, you keep looking behind you and throwing dust behind you and blaming others. So, what's here is. It's not terrible, but it's not good either. There's time to turn around. So when you say we're confusing the public, I think you're underestimating the public if you think we're confusing her. The public is listening, watching. It may not be clear to all of us, but at the end of the great majority, or most of it is clear. We don't confuse the public, we know very well what strategic national interest is, which is property that is in no way alienated, which is stored as a blood stream, which is a market and what are market categories. We think we're clear on that. When it comes to the production of electricity and the general supply system, then the system and the transmission of what Croatia must keep as an eye in the head. That's ours. The power plants we currently have are all property of the state. The ones we will build in Croatia in the future will be built in various models. Perhaps completely private, as producers, perhaps mixed, perhaps public-private partnership, but the interest in it has and it is Croatian interest as long as our transfer there is no privatisation. I think we understand each other very well. Forests, the waters of them are not sold, they are not given away. Agricultural land, and also here, we are also considering seeing this model that is currently in effect where local communities and municipalities sell the land or sell the land by means of a discretionary decision by local authorities is the best solution. Perhaps, and perhaps again, the vast discretionary authority for the availability of strategic resources is down to the lowest level where it matters. So we're chasing criteria and importance. Where people need to be given self-government, we take their money, where they may need to decide things of national interest, such as agricultural land down there, and we don't know who. These are the questions we've been thinking about for a very long time. Croatian Post Bank, Croatia Insurance, JANAF is not the same. JANAF is the second hand of this blood stream story. JANAF is just as important as INA, and we haven't really celebrated with INA. JANAF, you remember when we were protesting why part of JANAF was returned for the purpose of paying back the pensioners. Debt has to come back. That's the Constitutional Court's verdict, I guess that's what justice is. But JANAF and Croatia's insurance are not the same. Croatia's insurance is a market category, it remained because the market is completely deregulated. Croatia's insurance that was for everything, meanwhile, lost market influence to hire everything, and now it's one firm that needs millions of euros in capitalisation. You got them? Maybe we'll look for a partner in this business. But let's not put it in the same category, so we don't confuse the public, JANAF and Croatia's insurance. It's important to each other, but JANAF is vital. And that's why JANAF has to be completely state-of-the-art. Other companies, how do we make a deal, how do we estimate it? So that's the burden of power. So let's not, I agree, confuse the public. Something is a strategic interest, something is a resource that is not renewable, which once you give it away, let's look at examples of Hungary and some other countries, and something is a market category that needs to be managed, what needs to be recapitalised. The state doesn't have any money for it right now. If they will consider the social, health care, protection of bankruptcy rights, to preserve this level of pension plus correction, so the minimum growth of money for this type of investment, if we are going to build railways, if we are going to withdraw European funds for this at the moment are strategic Croatian things, that is the difference between average and some growth. Growth in economy and unemployment. Here, so I don't go into the demagogue of what I said I believe, and these are not the lines of defense, these are the lines of progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1363	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vuksic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1364	Okay, I'm asking you nicely, I didn't take you literally, you didn't answer my last questions, so I'd like to ask you a written answer. And secondly, I don't agree with economic theorists who say ownership affects the performance of a company, it's always said, and one of your ministers said, so we're not going to be dealing with insurance, or we're not going to be doing this popularly as they say we're not going to be banking. You said it wasn't sold, it's mastered. Which is why the state needs to be a bad master. Don't let that happen at the entrance to Croatia "For Rent" or "For Sale". I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1365	Thank you very much. And finally the representative of Mrs. Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the question I ask the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, I am glad that your voice is returning, so you will be able to answer my question. My question is where Mr. Milanovic disappeared, which you have so often told him about in recent years, especially when you have moralized on representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, and on the other hand you have ignored the fact that your party colleague is now a parliamentary representative, a colleague of Moharic under investigation of USKOK, that on February 7th, the trial begins, that he will sit on the defendant's bench and that he is charged with committing a criminal offence against official duty. So where did that consistency and honesty go, where those calls that were sent to HDZ members, MPs, my colleagues who had not finished the trial and tried to judge them here. For example, I will remind you of the car accident caused by the mayor of Varazdin Habush at the time you said, you spoke of it the decision must be made by his party, and so you washed your hands. I'm asking you, did you, by putting on a list of persons under investigation of the USKOK, who is being charged with committing a crime, send a clear message to the public that double moral rules apply to you in the SDP, and I hope you understood my question because most of the time you answered our questions, I didn't quite understand the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1367	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Mr Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1368	Thank you, dear colleague, go ahead. Only one more sentence of the concession serves to preserve ownership. And now the answer to your question, if that's the question, and I'll treat it that way. I'm not going to mention anyone's name here. Neither the HDZ quota nor the SDP quota or the Kukuriku coalition. I know very well who's on the SDP list, I know very well who's suspicious, sad, or not given God's judgment, there's no such thing. I also know on this side, I know that on the list right where you come from, there's a person who's been accused by USKOK, but not for abuse of position, but for serious crime, it doesn't matter what it's called, please don't do it. The case of Mr Moharic, a colleague from Goric, who has been trying to charge me with abuse of office for some time. I took responsibility, since the incrimination we talked about is not corrupt, no theft, no gain of personal gain. It is an assessment of the opportunism of conduct and business, possibly a criminal offence. If he had been charged, not convicted, or under investigation for a crime, I would have thought differently, but he didn't. So don't take this anywhere. That's what I want to tell you. Let's wait for a word. Similarly, some people have been accused and investigated and accused of serious crime and corruption, therefore for abuse of power for their own benefit. And for some bad business estimates, there are still sitting there, then UskoK rejected it, where we came with it. Who's going to be responsible for that? Who will answer for the fact that some mayors have had to lift each day for almost a year and a half and two years with an ulcer in their stomach and watch what happens to them, and in the end, it is unscheduled by the attorney's office. Let's stop it. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1369	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1370	So, everything you've done and done has been done by your party members, so here I'm looking at a minister who systematically harassed us, stegmatized us, you're transferring it all to someone else's backyard, I don't know how you're not embarrassed. So morals are at the very lowest level in the Social Democratic Party and you are still calling for honor and honesty. I have no intention of calling anyone here at all. You didn't answer my question, you could have answered it very simply with yes or no. Do they apply double rules? And here, in my line, are the colleagues you systematically harassed. Which you lynched in the media, which you found guilty. So, Mr. Prime Minister, for everyone in this country, the same rules must apply and the laws must be respected equally. I asked you yes or no, you didn't answer me, the public will judge. Of course you know thank God who's on your lists even if you've named it, that's better for saying it all about you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1371	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're done with the current morning, I propose and set a break of an hour and a half, so I'll see you at 2:00. My colleagues and colleagues, allow us to continue our work. So the first item of the agenda is 1. Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission We have A and B. Pod A), Reports of the start of the term of office of MPs and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office, so I would like to ask the president, already here, Mrs. Gordan Sobol to submit the reports. And we will each of those that I am informed of 4 then open the debate and put forward a motion for each decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1373	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed on 3. Session held on 12 January 2012 Yearly written statement by representative Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec informing her that she is putting her representative mandate on hold for the conduct of Assistant Finance Minister and Director of the Tax Administration, which is incompatible with the behaviour of the agent's office. SDP pursuant to Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Sandra Petrovic as deputy representative of the Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's term of office, Nada Cavlović-Smiljanec, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as her deputy deputy, Sandra Petrovic. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of MP Nada Čavlović-Smiljanec's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative, Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1374	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the motion for a decision presented by the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. So we adopted this motion by 107 votes, unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1375	The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the same session and a written statement by MP Tomislav Sauha informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his representative mandate to rest because of the behaviour of the head of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is incompatible with the behaviour of the agent's office. The SDP shall comply with Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Melita Mulić as deputy representative of Tomislav Sauha. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of Tomislav Sauha's term of office and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Melita Mulic. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of MP Tomislav Sauha's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy MP Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1376	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for this decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. So, with 108 votes, we unanimously adopted a proposal for this decision. Here's President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1377	The mandate-immunity committee discussed the same session and a written statement by MP Marija Lugaric informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on the stand for acting as deputy minister of science, education and sports which is incompatible with the behaviour of the parliamentary office. The SDP shall comply with Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Vesna Željnik as deputy representative of Marija Lugarić. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Marija Lugaric as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of its deputy deputy, Vesna Željnik. The mandate-immunity commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stay of the representative, Maria Lugarić, and to start acting as deputy deputy representative of Vesna Željnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1378	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the motion for this decision. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for this decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. So we adopted this motion for a decision unanimously with 109 votes. Thank you. Here's President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1379	The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the same session and a written statement by MP Dark Ledinski informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his parliamentary mandate to rest because of the behaviour of Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth, which is incompatible with the behaviour of the parliamentary office. The SDP shall comply with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Marija Vukbratovic as deputy representative of Darko Ledinski. The commission found that the conditions for the start of the term of office of representative Dark Ledinski were met with the law, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Marija Vukbratovic, and the commission proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of representative Darko Ledinski's mandate and the start of the behaviour of deputy deputy representative, Maria Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1380	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So we also adopted this motion for a decision unanimously with 112 votes. That's what we've done with this part, and we're going to take the oath. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the representative, or the representative, all of them here are MPs, who are called up and pronounces my oath. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1381	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1382	Thank you. Representative Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1383	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1384	Thank you. Representative Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1385	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1386	And representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1387	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1388	Thank you very much. Congratulations to the MPs on your sworn oath and I wish you a great deal of success in your work. [[Applause.]] B) Report on the request for authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Ivan Drmić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I ask the President of the Mandatory Commission, Mrs. Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1389	The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 3rd session held on 12 January 2012 the request of the State Attorney's Office and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime through the State Attorney's Office to grant authorisation to proceed with criminal proceedings against Ivan Drmić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence by association for the conduct of the criminal offence referred to in Article 333(1) and (3). Penal Code, criminal offence of inciting illegal intervention referred to in Article 343(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with Article 21(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council shall, on the basis of the information provided for in this Regulation, provide that the competent authorities of the Member States and the competent authorities of the Member States have the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with this Regulation. Penalty law. The commission found that the Croatian Parliament is in VI. a decision to grant authorisation at the 23rd session to initiate criminal proceedings against then-legislator Ivan Drmic for the same criminal offences for which authorisation is now required to continue the conduct of the criminal proceedings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity from the day of the constitution of the Assembly until the term of office has ceased. As Mr Ivan Drmic was re-elected as a representative at the Croatian Parliament and on 22 December 2011, a new assembly of the Croatian Parliament of the State Attorney's Office and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime was established, he sent a request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for a re-determination of granting authorisation to continue the conduct of the criminal proceedings. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 76(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia unanimously, with 8 votes in favour, decided: "A decision is given to continue the criminal proceedings against MP Ivan Drmic at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 3 January 2012 was sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia as of 5 January on suspicion that he committed a criminal offence by association for the initiation of the criminal offence referred to in Articles 333(1) and 3. Penal Code, criminal offence of inciting illegal intervention referred to in Article 343(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with Article 21(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council shall, on the basis of the information provided for in this Regulation, provide that the competent authorities of the Member States and the competent authorities of the Member States have the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with this Regulation. The Penal Code." The mandate-immunity committee decided to grant authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings against the representatives of the Croatian Parliament of Ivan Drmić at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duty without delay, which is the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to be given jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1390	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much, no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the decision has been made unanimously. Thank you. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivan Drmic, a representative. Excuse me. I would like to apologize specifically to Agent Drmic. So I repeat, the report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Marija Moharic. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1392	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I'm sorry, I forgot my glasses. It's better now. Therefore, at its 4th session of 25 January this year, the Court of Justice's request in Čakovec was addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Maria Moharic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed 2 crimes against the official duty of unwitting work in the service referred to in Article 339. Penalty law. Mario Moharić is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have proposed a decision to the Croatian Parliament – it is approved to conduct criminal proceedings against MP Marija Moharic at the request of the Municipal Court in Čakovec as of 12 January 2012 because of the suspicion of committing criminal offences against official duty through unconscious work. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Marija Moharic at the request of the Municipal Court in Čakovec, since the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Čakovec submitted an indictment against Marija Moharic before that court. In particular, the Commission took a principled position that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as a court which conducts criminal proceedings on their request that they be able to exercise the judicial authority independently and independently under the Constitution and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1393	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate and voting the decisions in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 127 votes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we move to the vote to propose an addition to the agenda, if that's okay with you. This is based on Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the 3rd session to the point: Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission A) report on the start of the term of office of the representative, Mršić, and the start of the behaviour of the deputy representative Drazen Pandek and B) of the report on the request for authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Josip Vukovic of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Is there any objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed item? There isn't. Thank you. Then I find that the addition of the agenda with this point is established. We move on to the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report, so this is the first point A report on the start of the stay of the representative, Mrsic, and the start of the conduct of deputy representative Drazen Pandek. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1395	Thank you, Mr. President. So, at its 5th session held on 8 March, the Mandate-Immunity Commission received a written request from Mrsic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his parliamentary mandate on hold, on the basis of Article 14(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the day of 24 February. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the election of MPs in the Croatian SDP Assembly of Croatia has decreed that, as deputy representative Dražko Pandek, he starts acting as a representative instead of representative of Zvonimir Mršić. The Commission found that the conditions for the start of the term of office of Mršić and the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy and unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly the decision to hold the representative's mandate and to start acting as deputy deputies. On 24 February 2012, the term of office of the representative, Mrsic, shall begin to rest, and the agent's duties shall be in accordance with paragraph 9. Article 2 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting as Deputy Representative Draženko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1396	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There isn't. Then I'm closing the debate, and we need to figure out the quorum before we go to the voting process, so I'd like to pray that we get involved to see how many of us we are. You need to hit zero. We are present by electronic vote 97 although I believe we are more in the hall. Thank you. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision taken by the President-in-Office of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who is asking for this proposal by electronic vote? I find that the decision has been made by a majority of the 106 votes in favour and two abstentions. Now I'd like to ask Agent Pandeck for his oath. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and after that, when the representative is called up and answers the oaths' oaths, it says: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in the Croatian Parliament, and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law in my work and respect the legal order and stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1397	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1398	Thank you very much. Congratulations to Agent Pandek, and I wish him a great deal of success in his duties. B report on the request for authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Josip Vukovic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here's Mrs. Gordana Sobol President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1399	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 5th session held on 8 March 2010, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of the private prosecutor TD Radio Psunj d.o.o. from Novi Gradiška for the authorisation of the continuation of criminal proceedings against Josip Vukovic for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. Mr. Josip Vukovic is a representative of the 7th. It convenes the Croatian Assembly and is based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The mandate-immunity committee, following the debate, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly the following decision: "During the duration of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against MP Josip Vukovic is denied, following the private lawsuit of the prosecutor, TD Radio Psunj d.o.o. from Nova Gradiška for the offence of slander referred to in Article 200(2). The Penal Code." Explanation. The Commission has taken a principled position that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, it should be granted the same authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings as the court which conducts the criminal proceedings in order to enable it to exercise its jurisdiction independently and independently under the Constitution and law. However, in the case of private prosecutors as well as cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters the place of state's attorney because the state's attorney found that there is no basis for launching or conducting a criminal proceedings, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. Namely, the position of the Committee is that the Institute of Immunity established in order to protect the dignity of the representative, not in order to protect the representative as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this, could make it impossible for the representative to act as his regular representative and thus affect the work of the Croatian Parliament. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. So, the mandate committee proposes that the parliament take a decision to deny authorisation to continue the criminal proceedings against MP Josip Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1400	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate, and I'm asking that we get involved, so let's vote on the motion for this decision made by Mrs. Sobol. I find that the decision was made by majority of votes, 107 votes for and 3 abstentions. Thank you very much. We are gathered here to supplement the agenda in order to allow a colleague from the HNS to become a representative. I'm just asking you to say it out loud, it'll take a few minutes, and then we'll give it a break for the club so we can work regularly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the 3rd session - Report of the Mandatno-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Angelko Topolovac and the start of acting as deputy representative Marijan Škurić. Is there any objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed item? There isn't. Then I find that the addition of the agenda has been established. Well, then we're going straight to that one, just the report and the decision-making and the swearing. Please, therefore - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Angelko Topolovac and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative Marijan Skvarić. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1402	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 6th session held on 15 March 2012, the mandate committee discussed the written request of Agent Angelko Topolovac, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate in office from 8 March 2012 for the conduct of a member of the administration of a state-owned company, which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary office. Croatian People's Party Liberal Democrats pursuant to Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has ordered that MP Angelko Topolovac be replaced by Marijan Skuric. The commission found that the conditions for the start of the term of office of Mr. Angelko Topolovac and the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Marijan Skvarić, were met and unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to take the decision on the rest of MP Angelko Topolovac's term of office with the day of March 8th and the start of the conduct of the representative, Marijan Škvarić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1403	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on this motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 96 votes. Now we're going to take the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, and after that the representative shall, when called, rise and pronounce: "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Agent, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1404	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1405	Thank you very much. . I congratulate you on your sworn oath and wish you every success in your work in these ranks. [[Applause.]] I'm giving it now. You said 15 minutes? Here, then I'll see you at 3:25. Thank you very much. Moving to 2. Reports, appointments and resolutions I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of Mr Shim Lucin to submit a report. One thing at a time, and then we'll open up the debate and vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1407	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Only two introductory sentences, which is that since all the alignments are not completed, you will see that there are not all the committees in this list, and there are also committees in this list that we will not vote on today because further alignments are needed among clubs. Let's just say that the Human Rights Committee has simply offered more members than, I guess there have been some misunderstandings and until this is resolved, so we'll probably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow of those committees that aren't here today on this list to discuss them. So then I suggest we start with the order of the list that you have and how you got it. So the first is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are dismissed: Dr. Gvozden Srecko Flego, Ante Kulušić, Franjo Lucic, Branka Jurčev Martinchev. The members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are selected: Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, magistrate Josip Salapić, Davorin Mlakar and Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1408	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So we adopted this motion by 114 votes unanimously. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1409	Thank you very much. The following is the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Legislatives Committee of the Croatian Parliament Dragica Zgrebec, Tomislav Saucha, Mr. Višnja Fortuna, Stjepan Milinković, Ivan Shantek and Sunčana Glavak. For the members of the board, Dr. Josip Kregar, Sandra Petrović, Ana Lovrin, Mr. Miss twilight and Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1410	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's all in sync, so there's no interest. Thank you. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. So, with 113 votes, we unanimously adopted a proposal for this decision. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1411	Thank you. The Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament is elected: Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Vice-President Frano Matušić, for members of Romana Jerkovic, Igor Dragovan, Tonino Picula, Mr. Marin Jurjevic, Biljana Borzana, Ivan Racan, Igor Coleman, Davor Ivo Stier, Andrija Plenković and Davor Bozinović. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1412	Can we move on?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1413	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1414	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint. Thank you very much. So we also unanimously adopted this proposal with 114 votes. We can move on. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1415	The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security for President Dr. Miroslav Tudjman, Vice President Igor Dragovan, for members: Gordana Sobol, Mr. Marin Jurjevic, Igor Radjenović, Franco Vidovic, Nenad Stazić, Milorad Batinić, Damir Cain, Tomislav Čulak, Tomislav Karamarko, Branko Vukelić, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1416	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Excuse me. Excuse me. All right. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. So we adopted the motion for a decision unanimously with 114 votes. We can move on. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1417	The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament for President Tomislav Ivić, for Vice President Zdravko Ronko, for members: Sandra Petrovic, Josip Vukovic, Boris Kovačić, Zvonimir Mršić, Petar Baranovic, Davor Bozinović, Branko Vukelić, Josip Djakić, Zvonko Milas and Drazen Djurović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1418	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's a good thing we started that board. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Against? Restraint? And so we adopted this proposal unanimously with 114 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1419	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament for President Srdjan Gjurković, for Vice-President Martina Dalic, for members Josip Benčić, Nadica Jelas, Ivo Jelusic, Dragica Zgrebec, Mihael Zmajlović, Zvonimir Mršić, Ivan Šuker, Djuro Popijac, Nevenka Bečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1420	Vienna, that's what it says. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? So we adopted this motion for a decision unanimously with 114 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1421	The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is elected President Igor Radjenović, Vice-President Đuro Popijac, members of Saša Đujic, Damir Rilje, Vesna Željnjak, Josip Vuković, Natalija Martinčević, Nevenka Bečić, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Martina Dalic, Ivan Šuker and Branko Vukusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1422	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted the motion for this decision unanimously with 115 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1423	The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament is elected President Goran Beus Richembergh, Vice-President Igor Češek, members of Lidija Bagarić, Luka Denon, Ivan Klarin, Mario Habek, Tonka Ivčević, Giovanni Sponza, Silvano Hrelja, Bozidar Kalmeta, Ivan Šuker, Josip Borić and Željko Kerum.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1424	I'm opening a debate with the fact that he's a candidate for board president Richembergh. So, here you go. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Against? Restraint? In agreement with 115 votes, we have reached a proposal for this decision. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1425	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and the election of presidents and the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Ana Lovrin is hereby dismissed, Davorin Mlakar is elected as vice-president of the Committee of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Members of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, Igor Radjanović, Davor Ivo Stier, Ante Babić, Ante Kulušić, Ilija Filipović, Ivanka Roksandić are hereby dismissed. For members of the Justice Committee, Sandra Petrovic, Ivan Klarin, Mr. Josip Salapic, Andrej Plenkovic, Tomislav Karamarko and Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1426	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We adopted the motion for this decision with 114 votes unanimously. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1427	Thank you. The Committee for Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament – they are elected President Silvano Hrelj, Vice President Zlatko Tušak. For the members – Borislav Kovačić, Gordana Sobol, Vanja Posavac, Daniel Mondekar, Igor Radjenović, Veljko Kajtazi, Đurđica Sumrak, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Ivan Shantek, Perica Jelečević and Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1428	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. So we adopted the motion for this decision with 114 votes unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1429	Thank you very much. The Committee on Health and Social Care of the Croatian Parliament is elected – for President Biljana Borzan, Vice-President Dujomir Marasović. For members – Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Romana Jerković, Ana Komparić Devčić, Đurdjica Plančić, Sonja Konig, Darko Milinović, academician Željko Reiner, Stjepan Milinković, Boro Grubišić, Nansi Tyreli, etc. Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1430	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal for this decision has been adopted unanimously with 115 votes. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1431	In the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Darko Milinović, Vice President Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. For members – Dan Špicer, Domagoj Hajduković, Ana Comparić Devčić, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Saša Djujic, Sonja Konig, Martina Banić, Ante Babić, Sunčana Glavak, Mladen Novak and Željko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1432	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal for this decision has been adopted by 113 votes unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1433	In the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Croatian Parliament is elected President Ivan Šuker, Vice President Ivo Jelusic. For members – Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Tanja Vrbat, Ada Damjanac, Tomislav Žagar, Ivica Mandić, Ilija Filipović, Miljan Brkić, Perica Jelečević, Ante Babić and Boro Grubišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1434	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm locking it up and putting it to the vote on a motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 120 votes, we have made this decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1435	The Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is elected President Josip Djakic, Vice President Zeljko Sabo. For members – Tonino Picula, Franco Vidovic, Zdravko Ronko, Josip Benčić, Boris Blažeković, Tomislav Ivić, Zvonko Milas, Miljan Brkić and Drazen Đurović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1436	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you are, representative of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1437	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We were at the opposition meeting to agree, and for committees, however, my colleague Bajs and I were not able to send our application or as the proposal says, but the names were already there and for some reason we were removed from all these proposals so I don't know why and who cares if we weren't on those committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1438	So you know that all committees are actually elected, or proposed, and are chosen on the basis of consultations carried out by the parliamentary majority and opposition. What came to the Board of Selection, the appointment by clubs, that's it. Therefore, I would ask you if there were any misunderstandings to see with the clubs, or where there was a misunderstanding. It's the only thing I can tell you right now. Because if we had received that proposal, then neither this committee would have been on the agenda today if there were more or I didn't know there were any misunderstandings but there would have been any to leave. I suggest that we now pronounce it, if you agree, that it can be done, and then let's see in the walk to change it if necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1439	I agree with the chairman of the board. I think you're getting along, too. We can move on then. I therefore conclude the debate and put to the vote the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. And we adopted this motion for a decision unanimously with 121 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1440	The Committee on the Environment of the Croatian Parliament is elected President Branko Bačić, Vice-President Željko Kolar. For members – Vedran Babić, Damir Rimac, Ivana Posavec Krivec, Zoran Vasić, Dragutin Glavina, Andrej Plenković, Branko Kutija, Branko Juričev-Martinčev and Šima Đurđević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1441	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Mrs. twilight, you don't mind? Restraint? ... Yeah, that's what I said you didn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I just saw you holding still your hands. That's why I said you didn't. Thank you. So we unanimously adopted this motion for a decision by 124 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1442	In the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Michael Zmajlović, Vice President Boro Grubisic. For members Vedran Babić, Željko Mirković, Đurdjica Plančić, Ivica Mandić, Dragutin Glava, Branko Bačić, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Branko Juričev Martinčev, Josip Borić, Dinko Bošnjak and Jovo Vuković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1443	Thank you very much. Let me just say it's a much smaller mistake than when I was sworn by a minister calling him a woman. So, yeah. But it's good to read before text. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? So, I find that the motion for a decision has been adopted unanimously by 123 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1444	Thank you very much. The Committee on Education Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament elects: Dr. Walter Bolunčić, Vice President of the Academy, Željko Reiner, for the members of Dr. Gvosden Srecko Flego, Daniel MONdekar, Lidija Bagarić, Dunja Špoljar, Damir Tomić, Igor Coleman, Veljko Katazi, Jasen Mesic, Martina Banić, Ivanka Roksandić and Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1445	I'm opening a debate. I am concluding and putting to the vote the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I note that the motion for a decision was adopted unanimously with 123 votes, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1446	The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament elects: For President Petar Cobanković, Vice-President Ivica Mandic. For members Mladen Marelić, Mario Muharić, Đurdjica Plančić, Marija Vukbratović, Vladimir Bilek, Petar Baratović, Branko Kutija, Nevenka Bečić, Željko Kerum and Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1447	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We voted unanimously on this motion for a decision by 123 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1448	In the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president Dragica Zgrebec, members of Tonka Ivčević, Ivan Klarin, Zoran Vasić, Vladimir Bilek, Petar Baranovic, Silvano Hrelja, Josip Borić, Frano Lucić, Đuro Popijac, Petar Čobanković and Zoran Vinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1449	I'm opening a debate, if anyone has anything to say, let them say it now. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for the motion decision? Against? Restraint? We adopted the motion by 124 votes unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1450	In the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected President Nada Turina Đuric, vice-president Ante Kulušić. for members of Šima Lučin, Damir Rilje, Franco Vidović, Tomislav Žagar, Mladen Marelić, Bozidar Kalmeta, Branko Bačić, Josip Boric, Dinko Bošnjak and Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1451	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So we unanimously adopted this proposal by 124 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1452	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President and the resolution of the election of members of the Board for the selection and appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Committee for the Election and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Nansi Tyreli, is hereby appointed as Vice-President of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, is hereby elected Mladen Novak. Members Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Josip Djakic and Frano Matušić are also resolved. For the members of the Committee are called Josip Benčić, Stjepan Milinković and Dinko Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1453	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal for this decision has been adopted unanimously by 122 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1454	Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament. For President Daniel Mondekar, for Vice President Gordan Jandrokovic. For the members of Dr. Iron Srecko Flego, Damir Mateljan, Melita Mulić, Tanja Vrbat, Jozo Radoš, Davor Ivo Stier, Andrej Plenković, Frano Matušić, Davor Bozinović and Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1455	I'm opening a debate. Here's Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1456	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, as I pointed out once again on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club after the meeting of the Club Presidents, I would like to express my dissatisfaction here on behalf of the Club because I would like to appeal once again to the representatives of the opposition to this Committee, of course without the illusion that this appeal will have any echo towards you but we would like to ask that we should consider really in line with what the Croatian Parliament needs to say to the public, but with what it should ultimately do, in the light of that committee, make the committee's leadership belong to the opposition. We believe that until the entry into the European Union, therefore, until 1 July 2013, there is a need to continue to work extremely hard and we believe that it is good for the opposition in the European Parliament to control, oversee what the Croatian Government is doing in this process. In fact, I would also support some of the moves made by the new government which are contrary to the acquis of the European Union. I'd like to remind you of the changes to some laws. So, above all, related to civil servants and tenants, but also to some other moves. And we believe that it is necessary in this monitoring of the government's moves until the EU's entry is necessary that there is what is called corrective supervision as it was in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. So, in line with the best practice of democratic countries, I propose that EU member states be led by this committee to the opposition and ask that this proposal be considered and certainly voted on. Of course we will not if this proposal is not accepted, we will not vote as it has been a practice and so far against members and members of that committee, and then I would suggest that Mr. President that perhaps the decision on this committee and the composition of it be omitted today to leave us another time to try again on behalf of the clubs, so if that is not possible, then of course we will certainly support the Committee on European Affairs. But please today if it is possible to leave the vote on that committee or its composition out of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1457	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1458	As far as the Selection and Appointing Committee is concerned, I can say that we received this proposal as agreed and so we sent it to the procedure at the Croatian Parliament. For the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1459	I have no choice but to put the motion to the vote. Since you've had an agreement, I don't know how there hasn't been any compliance with his result. Is anyone else answering for word? I'd be the happiest if you'd agreed to everything like we did before, but obviously it wasn't all in line. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So, we adopted this proposal with most votes 122 votes for, 1 against and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1460	The Committee for the Designation, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament is elected, for President Branko Vukšić, for Vice-President Davor Bernardić, for members Šima Lučin, Ivan Racan, Damir Tomić, Damir Rimac, Boris Blažeković, Goran Richembergh, Jasen Mesic, Sunčana Glavak, Martina Banić and Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1461	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that we unanimously adopted a proposal for this decision by 123 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1462	The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected, for President Nansi Tyreli, for Vice-President Sonja Konig, for members, Marija Vukbratović, Dunja Špoljar, Nadica Jelaš, Melita Mulić, Ana Koparić-Devčić, Branka Juričev-Martinčev, Ivanka Roksandić, Đurđica Sumrak, Ante Babić and Stjepan Milinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1463	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I don't know if it's Mrs. Sonja Kenig or Konig. There's no yurts. Konig. It's a good thing there's no mistake. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that we unanimously adopted a proposal for this decision with 122 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1464	Thank you. The Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected, for President Zoran Vinkovic, for Vice-President Josip Vuković, for members Davor Barnardić, Ada Damjanac, Damir Mateljan, Željko Mirković, Željko Sabo, Angelko Topolovac, Davorin Mlakar, Željko Kerum, Branka Juricev-Martinchev, Dinko Bošnjak and magistrate Denesh Soja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1465	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that we unanimously adopted a proposal for this decision with 122 votes. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1466	Thank you. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is resolved by Mr Branko Vukelic, and instead is named Mr. Miljan Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1467	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, we have adopted a proposal for this decision. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1468	Thank you. The motion for a decision to resolve the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Dr Miso Munivran.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1469	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote on this decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So we adopted this proposal by a majority vote of 91 votes in favour and 30 against. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1470	Thank you. The proposal for a decision to appoint the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament is called Nada Milak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1471	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. So there's no new employment on the internal lines. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. So we adopted this decision unanimously, with 121 votes. Thank you all, all the elected presidents, vice presidents and board members, representatives of the Office of Presidents of the Parliament, I congratulate and wish a lot of success in the work, and I thank all those who have been relieved of their work so far and I want a lot of success in work and life as well. And Mr. Munivrana will be working on other jobs in the Croatian Parliament. Moving to 3. The proposal for a decision establishing the form of a representative card is proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs in accordance with Article 20(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 177. The Rules of Procedure shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the final draft law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, that is, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you are, Mr. Shime Lucin, chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1473	Thank you very much. Here, I don't have to specifically explain what the card form is and what it says, but just to point out what the change is relevant to the card so far. As part of the right of MPs is reduced, here is a specific point of view about free urban transport, so far it has been listed on the card, on new cards it will not be mentioned and de facto it is the only change from the current, until now valid identity cards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1474	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal for this decision has been reached unanimously with 123 votes. This is before I conclude the session to inform you, tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Information on the course and results of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And it's imagined that we're only working at that point tomorrow. Just to let you know, 32 has been reported for individual debates so far. So tomorrow we'll continue at 9.30 with that agenda point. Now we're moving on to the selection of appointments and resolutions. So first, I ask the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Joseph Kregar, to report that we can vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1476	Honorable MPs and MPs. We are the committee responsible for proposing two of our members to the State Judicial and State Attorney's Council, in time these bodies sent us a request to declare ourselves in this regard and propose candidates. The clubs delivered their wishes in this regard, the Committee discussed candidates at yesterday's session. We have proposed for the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council to remain the same candidates as they were and that would be Mr. Josip Leko and Mr. Salapic for the State Judicial Council, and for the State Attorney's Council Mrs. Ana Lovrin and Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Three reasons for such a proposal are, above all, relatively almost appointed to those duties and are not even half the term of office. Secondly, this may have been the first to highlight their professional excellence and knowledge of the area in which these bodies are engaged. And third, the same support given by their party clubs in those bids. I thank you, and I hope you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1477	I suggest we put together a discussion on these two proposals, so I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. Then I'd put this proposal to the vote. First of all, the decision to appoint members of the State Judicial Council is called Mr. Josip Leko and Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So I find that this motion for a decision has been adopted unanimously with 112 votes. It's very interesting how unanimous we are about choices and appointments so far. I put to the vote the motion for a decision appointing members of the State Attorney's Council. For members of the National Attorney's Council of the Croatian Assembly, Mrs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović and Ms Ana Lovrin are appointed. Who's in? Against? Restraint? It's even more like 114. I therefore find that 114 MPs and MPs voted in favour of this decision and we have reached that decision unanimously. I would now like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, Mr. Shim Luchin, to submit reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1478	My colleagues and colleagues. At its 4th session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, held on 20 January 2012, adopted the following proposals. First, it is a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Ruža Tomasic is elected member of the Foreign Policy Committee of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1479	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No interested, then I can put this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 114 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1480	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Dunja Špoljar is elected member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1481	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no interested, so then I can put this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 114 votes. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1482	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. Igor Radjenović is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the state budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1483	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. Then I would conclude the debate and put this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 113 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1484	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Silvano Hrelja, is dismissed. Two, Zeljko Šemper is elected member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1485	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No interested, then I can put this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 113 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1486	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Igor Radjenović is dismissed. Two, Dragica Zgrebec is elected as a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1487	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 113 votes. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1488	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, Tonino Picula, is hereby dismissed. Secondly, for members of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee, Damir Rimac and Ruža Tomasic are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1489	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. And I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this draft decision unanimously with 112 votes. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1490	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dan Spicer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1491	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 112 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1492	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament is elected Master Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1493	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, this decision has been established and taken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1494	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament is elected Luka Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1495	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm in the middle of a debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that this motion for a decision has been adopted unanimously with 114 votes. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1496	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Silvano Hrelja, is hereby authorised. Second, the Master of Višnja Fortuna is elected as a member of the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1497	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that we adopted this decision unanimously with 113 votes. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1498	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament is elected: for President Dinko Burić, for Vice President Luka Denon, for members Mario Habek, Vesna Željnjak, Mario Mohorić, Vanja Posavac, Domagoj Hajduković, Natalija Martinčević, Ilija Filipović, Tomislav Čulak, Ivan Shantek, Franjo Lucić and Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1499	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that we have reached this decision unanimously with 113 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1500	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected Saša Djujic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1501	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that we have reached this decision unanimously with 113 votes. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1502	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly is elected: Dr Furio Radin, Vice-President Ruža Tomasic, members of Domagoj Hajduković, Dan Spicer, Melita Mulić, Vladimir Bilek, Veljko Kajtazi, Boris Blažeković, Ante Babić, Tomislav Karamarko, Ivanka Roksandić, Franjo Lucić, Dr Vojislav Stanimirović, magistrate Denes Soja and Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1503	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you very much. We also adopted this proposal unanimously with 113 votes. Thank you very much. That's what we came up with... I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman of the Board of Selection, appointments and administrative affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1504	An apology. So there are two other decisions left, I apologize. So a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the European Integration Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For a member of the board, Tonino Picula is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1505	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that this motion for a decision has been adopted with 113 votes unanimously. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1506	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Dr Josip Kregar is elected as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1507	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that we have reached this decision unanimously with 113 votes. This is how we came to the end of today's debate, and I announce, as you have in the invitation, the extension of this 3rd session for 25 January this year at 9.30 p.m. with the point The final draft law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And to stop by, the secretary of the plenary session tells me, to the Information Centre for envelopes. You have every envelope of your own, so please take it over. Thank you very much. Now we move on to Elections, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Mr Sim Luchin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1509	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 91(2) of Article 118 and Article 244 thereof, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Board of Directors of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Order of Representatives, Dragica Zgrebec, Srdjan Gjurković, Ivan Šuker, are appointed members. As deputy member Igor Radinovic, Natalija Martincevic and Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1510	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising and voting this motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The motion for a decision is determined by a majority vote with 120 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1511	At its 5th session, held on 24 January, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament made the next decision, so the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. As a member of the board, Nedzad Hodzic is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1512	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. This motion for a decision was adopted with 121 votes, therefore unanimously. I congratulate all presidents, vice presidents and members of the working bodies on the election. I thank my colleagues and colleagues for their active participation in the work of the Croatian Parliament over the past two weeks, and I would like to inform you that we will continue to work on the 15th of February with a debate on the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Offices. Thank you very much. And finally we move to the last item of the agenda at today's session, which is the point - Elections, appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Mr. Shim Luchin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1514	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 7th session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs set out the following proposals for decisions. First, the proposal for a decision on the election of the president, vice-president and members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Ana Lovrin, Vice-President Vesna Fabiančić Križanić and members of Peđa Grbin, Jadranka Kosor, Dragutin Lesar, is proposed for the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1515	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I have to close the debate. And I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? By raising your hands, please. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this proposal unanimously with 119 votes. Today it seems to be the only decision with so far unanimously made. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1516	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of the communist crime after World War II. So from the ranks of parliamentary representatives is called Master Damir Rimac a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1517	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1518	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, we have an objection to this appointment proposal, given that the Committee on War Veterans has not passed, which has both addressed the Government and the Board of Selection and the appointment to refer the proposal to the Committee on War Veterans. Otherwise, it is not a practice, although it is commercially possible to say that it is not a practice that the parent body has always discussed who will be the one to be proposed. I just wanted to make sure that complaint was all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1519	We heard a complaint. I'm putting this motion for a decision put forward by Mr. Chairman of the board. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. The motion for a decision was voted in favour of 79 MPs, 32 against, 3 abstentions, so I would say that this proposal was adopted. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1520	Thank you. The next proposal is for a decision to resolve the president and members of the Vladimir Nazor Award. The duties of academic committee president Milan Moguš and members Branka Cvitković, Valter Despalj, academician Tonko Marojevic, academician Krešimir Nemec, Krsto Papić, Georgi Parov, Biserka Rauter Plančić and Idis Turato are resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1521	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm finishing it. I put this motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? This motion for a decision was accepted by 90 votes in favour, and 25 were abstentions, none against. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1522	The next proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the 2Vladimir Nazor Committee." For the president, an academic named Milivo Solar is proposed. For members of the academics Krešimir Nemec, academician Frano Parać, Miroslav Gašparović, Verica Robić Škarica, Helena Buljan, academician Boris Bucan, Mirko Sparenblek and Zoran Zidarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1523	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm finishing it. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. We have adopted this motion unanimously with 114 votes. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1524	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to elect the president and vice-president of the Interparliamentary Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Parliament. For President Bozidar Kalmeta, for Vice President Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1525	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We unanimously accepted the proposal for this decision with 115 votes. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1526	Thank you. The next decision is to appoint a delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As leader of Dr. Gvozden Srecko Flego, for members of Tanja Vrbat, Igor Coleman, Frano Matušić, Bozidar Kalmeta, Deputy Members Daniel Mondekar, Ivan Racan, Ana Koparić Devčić, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic and Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1527	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We have accepted the motion for this decision with 116 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, therefore unanimously. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1528	Proposal for a decision to appoint a Croatian Parliament delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. For the leader Boris Blažeković, for the members of the magistrate Marin Jurjevic, Sandra Petrovic, Davor Ivo Stier and Dr Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1529	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We took this motion for a decision unanimously with 116 votes. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1530	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament in the interparliamentary Union. For President Drazen Djurovic, Vice-President Marin Jurjevic, for members Ivan Klarin, Gordana Sobol, Natalija Martincevic, Ante Kulušić and Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1531	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We also took this decision with 117 votes unanimously. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1532	The next is the Proposal for a decision on the election of the Croatian Parliament delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. For the leader Branko Vukšić, for the members of Dr Romana Jerkovic, Tonino Picula, for the deputy members Dr Furio Radin, Frano Matušić and Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1533	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that we unanimously adopted this decision with 117 votes. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1534	Proposal for a decision to appoint a delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia-European Union. For the president, Master Andrej Plenkovic, for Vice President Jozo Radoš, Tonino Picula. For members Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Dr Romana Jerkovic, Biljana Borzana, Daniel Mondekar, Dr Milorad Pupovac, Igor Coleman, Davor Ivo Stier, Gordan Jandroković, master of Martina Dalic, Dr Davor Bozinović, Ante Kulušić and Nansi Tyreli. As deputy masters Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Melita Mulić, Ivo Jelusic, Marija Vukbratović, Domagoj Hajduković, Dan Špicer, Mario Habek, Sonja Konig, Franjo Matušić, master Đuro Popijač, Martina Banić, Sunčana Glavak, Ilija Filipović, Jasen Mesic and Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1535	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? And we made this decision unanimously with 118 votes. Thank you very much. Mr. Lucin, continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1536	Proposal for a decision to appoint a Croatian Parliament delegation to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. For the leader of Tonino Picula, for the members of Luka Denon and Jasen Mesic. For the deputy members of Tonka Ivcevic, Đurdjica Plancic, master Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1537	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. And we made this decision unanimously with 118 votes as well as the previous one. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1538	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to appoint a delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. For the host of Dr. Romana Jerkovic, for members of Angelko Topolovac, Dragutin Lesar. For the deputy members of Melita Mulic, Damir Mateljan, academician Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1539	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Board. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote on this decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? And we made this decision unanimously with 118 votes. Before we part, I'm asking you to give you one notice. Next week we are not sitting, and we continue to work when the Constitutional Court or the Government makes assumptions that we have a draft law on the agenda that will allow for the ratification of Croatia's accession treaty. As far as I am informed, the Constitutional Court will meet 5.3, and will decide on the constitutionality and legality of the referendum, which was held on 22. January. And after that, we have assumptions, that is, when the government delivers us a bill. I'm expecting you, but don't take my word for it to be 7.3 on Wednesday, so this year. Thank you and good-bye for your constructive cooperation, especially today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1542	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Elections, appointments and administrative affairs of the Croatian Parliament at its 8th session set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Awards for Science and the appointment of members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Awards for Science. Members of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff are hereby authorised: Prof. Dr. Ivan Pavić, Prof. Dr. Dragica Kozarić-Kovačić, academician Milan Moš, Prof. Dr. Nada Chikesh-Mihelić, Prof. Dr. Krešimir Pavelić, Prof. Dr. Mario Kovac, Prof. Dr. Josip Baloban, Prof. Dr. Antun Tucak, Prof. Dr. Port of Sopta, Prof. Dr. Marina Milicevic-Prac. On 22 December 2011, he suspended the term of office of a member of the Committee for the Sharing of State Prizes for Science from the ranks of prominent scientific staff of Prof. Dr. Selemu. For the new members of the Committee, the following are proposed: Prof. Dr. Valter Bolunčić, Prof. Dr. Andrea Zlatar-Violić, Dr. Nada Švob-Djokić, academician Prof. Dr. Zvonko Kusic, Prof. Dr. Frano Barbir, Dr. Milorad Milun, Prof. Dr. Hrvoje Kraljević, academic professor Dr. Daniel Rukavina, Prof. Dr. Petar Biljanović, Prof. Dr. Josip Kovacevic, Prof. Dr. Jasminka Ledić and Prof. Dr. Ivo Pranjkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1543	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no interested then I put this motion to the vote. We want a hand, then we'll be electronic, so please let's get on board and vote. Thank you very much. This proposal for a decision was adopted with a majority of 81 votes for, no one against, two abstentions. Here you go, Mr. President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1544	Thank you very much. The same session also set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Šuker is hereby dismissed, Jasen Mesic is elected as a member of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1545	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising and voting the motion for a decision. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. Thank you. We took this motion by 105 votes for, no one against, three abstentions. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1546	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is being elected Marijan Skuric. On March 8, 2012 The term of office of the member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament has ceased to behave as Angelko Topolovac for the term of office of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1547	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising and voting the motion for a decision. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. Thank you. We took this motion for a decision unanimously with 104 votes. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1548	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Marijan Skurić. Day 8. March 2012 The responsibility of a member of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament has ceased to act as Angelko Topolovac for the rest of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1549	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am finalising and voting the motion for a decision. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. Thank you. This proposal is now presented by Mr. Lucin with 108 votes unanimously. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1550	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to appoint a representative of the Croatian Assembly to the European Parliament. The European Parliament for representatives of the Croatian Parliament is named Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Biljana Borzana, Dr. Romana Jerković, Tonino Picula, Tanja Vrbat, Boro Grubišić, Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Andrej Plenkovic, Dr. Davor Bozinović, Franjo Matušić, Jozo Radoš and Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1551	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Please. I have a suggestion again. I'll conclude, so it doesn't fail again if we vote with our hand. Okay. Let's get on with our prayers and vote. What did I tell you? I was just asking. I therefore find that the proposal for a decision on the appointment of representatives of the Croatian Parliament's observer to the European Parliament was adopted by a majority of 107 votes in favour, no one against and 2 abstentions. Congratulations to all members or elected observers of the Croatian Parliament... And I want a lot of success in the work. [[Applause.]] And I want on your behalf and on my behalf a lot of success in the work and in the name of those who probably voted by mistake with abstention. Let's end up with another draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1552	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. It is called Marijan Škurić as a member of the delegation. On 8 March 2012, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative stopped acting as Angelko Topolovac for the rest of the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-18-0.u1553	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Mr. President of the Committee for the selection, appointment and administrative issues. I'm putting the motion to vote. Let's get involved and vote please. Thank you. This proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously with 107 votes in favour. We are approaching the end of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you all for your constructive work during the 3rd session, and I announce that the 4th session will be held in April sometime after Easter, but I cannot define the date yet. This year. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, I warmly welcome all of you and continue the session with the fourth item of the agenda. That's four. Information on the course and results of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union Information with additional materials has been provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration. I ask Mr. Zoran Milanovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to present an opening statement. After that, if I understand it, it is agreed that Mrs Vesna Pusic also speaks on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
