ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24567	Good afternoon. I suggest we work without a break today, given the amount of legislation we have to do. We begin with - Final draft law amending the Labour Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 209 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? He does. Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Bozidar Stubelj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24568	Madam Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs. The ministry of labour and pension systems has already announced that it will pass a law that will amend the existing labour protection regulation. The existing work protection system was established in 1996 when the Republic of Croatia found a way to protect the remains of a highly developed system of protection at the work of the former state. Changes in the way of production, the structure of the Croatian economy and the recognition of the right of the European Union's work protection system in Croatia are regulated by 7 significant amendments and additions and even 48 implementing rules. Although the Ministry of Labour and Pension System presented in early July a new draft law available on the website of the debate mrms.hr following consultations with the social partners, employers and trade unions whose field of protection at work is of primary interest, it was decided that the modernisation of the area of protection at work will take place in two stages. In the first phase of which the result is currently in front of you, a minor discrepancies with Council Directive 92/85/EEC on the implementation of measures to improve the safety and health of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or breast-feeding at work, which the Republic of Croatia has committed to align in its negotiating positions for Chapter 19 before the accession and full membership of the European Union. Since the full application of the law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations requires additional time for the implementation of the new law, it is provided for if it is provided for for the second quarter of 2013 for the purposes of the ex-ante assessment of the rules and the area of labour protection, a... health and safety project has been completed in accordance with which the methodologically developed impact assessment procedure is prescribed in the field of protection at work. More intensive consultations with the public, interest groups and experts will begin in January 2013 as soon as the new draft law can enter into force on 1 July 2013 when the Republic of Croatia joins the European Union. The proposal in front of you prescribes the obligation of employers to adapt working conditions, workplaces, working hours and change of jobs to protect the health and safety of pregnant women and workers who have given birth and breastfeeding. In view of the fact that these obligations are employers of a limited duration of time, they should not reduce the salary of pregnant women and workers who are born or breast-feeding. This bill also extends the rights of underage workers as the employer is obliged to adapt the conditions and schedule of working time to remove hazards or harmfulness for their safety and health, and where adjustments are not carried out or justified to provide other relevant jobs, i.e. places of work. We therefore propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed amendments to the Labour Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24569	Thank you very much. Do representatives or committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is the HDZ club and colleague Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24570	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Dear Proposer. Here is the Labour Protection Act, one of a series of laws and regulations that have been passed over the years to improve working conditions for all employees. However, as all of us who are fortunate to be parents know that the harmonisation of the requirements of our parental obligations, especially motherhood with working conditions, is very difficult and, unfortunately, with all legislative regulations, mothers, pregnant women, are very often discriminated against. There are several laws that regulate both discrimination and women's rights, especially the rights of women, mothers, births and pregnant women. Some of the acts, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are also regulated and speak equally of these rights. Then, the Labour Act speaks of these rights and the Revised Convention on the Protection of Motherhood and the European Social Charter. Based on this '52 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood. the age of the woman is entitled to maternity leave on the basis of a medical certificate and the duration of leave is at least 12 weeks and includes the postpartum period. The duration of mandatory leave after delivery is regulated by national laws and may take at least 6 weeks. The law on the work of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that women employed have the right to maternity leave during pregnancy, childbirth and child care. The leave may be used 45 days before the scheduled delivery date, and may be used up to a year of child's life unless in case of multiple pregnancy when a woman is entitled to leave until the second year of child's life. In the case of pregnant workers, the European Social Charter shall lay down the following requirements: ensuring the right to a paid maternity leave of at least 14 weeks, prohibiting termination during pregnancy or leave, the right to breast-feeding, to arrange night work for pregnant women, maternity and breast-feeding, and the prohibition of the working of pregnant women, maternity and breast-feeding under life-threatening conditions, as well as taking the necessary measures to protect those rights. The labour law states that an employer must not refuse to hire a woman because of her pregnancy, cancel her work contract or move her to other jobs. The legislator shall not seek any information on the woman’s pregnancy unless it personally requires a certain law provided for in the law or any other regulation on the protection of pregnant women. A pregnant or breast-feeding woman may be moved to other jobs on her own request or at the orders of the employer only if it allows her medical condition and only if she consents to transfer herself. An employer must move pregnant and breast-feeding to safer jobs if he is working on tasks that threaten her health. If a dispute occurs, the authorised physician is responsible for assessing the transfer. The labour law allows women to continue breast-feeding at the time of the child's breast-feeding break after the use of reduced maternity leave or part-time work. The flat can be used twice a day in full-time, and the woman has the right to complete the first year of her child’s life. The time for breast-feeding is set at work time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's another law we're trying to legislate something that should be normal. However, despite what I said to my good regulation and improved and maternity benefits, which the last government has increased by realizing that the mother who is at home with her child is the greatest treasure for both the child and her. There's a possibility your father might be using maternity leave, too. Whether he can use it or not is a matter of his choice. We should fight to make father feel that it is nice to stay with his child. However, in a situation like this where all jobs or most of them are at least questionable, when wages are very low. Here we see, there's also a Christmas card and regresses and pay additions. How will a mother decide or father to use their full maternity leave. Who's he leaving the baby to? It is therefore good that this EU regulation is also in line with this Labour Protection Act in a way that the employer is obliged to provide a place and time for breast-feeding. The employer is a lot, a lot of things the employer has to do. However, when it comes to women and women's rights here, there should be another sensitivity. We all really admire little children and tell them they're our future. But when a woman comes to the job interview with her child who had no place to leave, he simply doesn't want to talk to her or talk to her. How such an employer will respect not only the Labour Act, but he will respect all other regulations that are. Such an employer should have been listed in the media with a full name and name and should have been punished. He should have been punished by all laws and discrimination and by the Labour Act, so here he is by this law that is before us. And the constitution speaks differently, but still that sensitivity towards a breast-feeding mother, sensitivity to children, sensitivity to parents is not at that level. We will, of course, support the adoption of this law in HDZ, because every legislative regulation that is good, especially this one that is in line with EU legislation. And we hope that there will be a lot more sensitivity and that there will be a lot more respect for both laws and regulations, but that we here in the Parliament will talk about exactly that kind of name and last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24571	Thank you. SDP club and counterpart Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24572	Here I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's an amendment to the Law on protection at work that was passed on June 28, '96. In 15 years and years, he has experienced as many as seven changes and additions. Multiple amendments and additions mainly concerned harmonisation with European legislation and with the EU acquis in the field of health and safety at work. Although the law in most parts is in line with European legislation, there is still a minor discrepancy in the area of anti-discrimination and equal opportunities, which is an integral part of the negotiating positions set out in Chapter 19. - Social policy and employment. In 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Programme for Health and Safety at Work for the period 2009 to 2013, whose strategic objective is to ensure conditions for a healthy workplace, for working in a safe way and in conditions that do not lead to health damage. The emphasis is on prevention through adequate protection at work, and the importance of prevention is particularly highlighted in the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020, which we had the opportunity to discuss recently here in the Croatian Parliament. And where preventive activities are particularly highlighted among the priorities. The main objectives of preventive approach through adequate health and safety at work are to reduce work injuries, reduce occupational diseases and diseases related to work, improve the health status of workers and all this should lead to a reduction of economic loss due to injuries and diseases associated with work. The obligation of protection at work is not a favorite among employers because they often consider it a unnecessary cost, and it is not a favorite among workers either. Although about 18,000 workers were injured last year, 41 people unfortunately lost their lives by employers trying to avoid costs, and workers are often unaware of dangers, so sometimes they tend to avoid protective clothing and other means. Ignore protection at work can be too expensive from more aspects. For the worker, there is a risk that inadequately implemented protection pays with your health or do not give God life, for an employer who in case of an accident has multiple losses and for a whole society due to additional burdens on the health and pension system through increased use of medicines, increased number of illnesses and increased disability pensions. How important this problem is visible from the 2011 HZZO Business Report. This report shows that the vast majority of the fees are compensations for sickness and disability, which amounted to over a billion kunas. Employees spent a total of 15 million days on sick leave or on average 48 thousand employees are on sick leave every day. The days of illness based on work injuries and occupational illnesses are 986 thousand and 520 days, which is an average of 3 150 daily absences, for which a total of 235 million kuna is paid. Therefore, it is necessary to further educate employers in order to see protection at work as an investment, not an unnecessary cost, and that a healthy and satisfied worker is significantly more productive. It is important to note that the preparation of the overall modernisation of the field of protection on work through the creation of a new law is why I have mentioned it before and will follow the impact assessment of the regulations. The proposed amendment of the law that we are discussing today solves minor discrepancies with the adopted directives, and concerns the implementation of incentive measures to improve the safety and health of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or breast-feeding in the workplace. The changes relate to the employer's obligations to adapt work conditions, workplaces, working hours and, where appropriate, work to protect the health and safety of workers with the protection of the height of their income. The Republic of Croatia has committed itself in negotiations with the EU to regulate the area before full membership. The situation in the Republic of Croatia is far from desirable, and demographics unfortunately well predicted a long-standing fall in birth. According to reports, women's primary health care offices in the past year were 15% less visited for family planning compared to the previous year. In 2011, about 41 thousand children were born, which is 2,000 less than last year and even 12 thousand less than in the 1990s. The general crisis and the uncertain future have made their own, so any such incentive is welcome. Aware of how vulnerable a group of pregnant women are in the overall population of the proposed changes are to be provided adequate protection. Since in the last year about 67,000 parents used different forms of maternity and parental leave in that number, the share of fathers is about 2.5% and perhaps this incentive increases that share. We can conclude that the proposed law measures apply to a group of more than 60,000 women a year. With these changes, they provide health protection, health protection and the needs of their child, job protection and protection. These amendments to the law are expected to contribute to a greater sense of the safety of potential mothers, at least a little incentivising their decision to become pregnant. Of course, the SDP will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24573	Thank you very much. HDSSB club and counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24574	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Of course, the HDSSB club will also support this legislative proposal on amendments to the Protection Act to work with the Final Bill. In my debate I will simply say to continue on the course of the thoughts of the previous speaker here, so what she mentioned and these are demographic trends in the Republic of Croatia where the census itself has established a difference in the number of inhabitants between 2001 and 2011, so over a period of 10 years we have approximately reduced the number of inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia by more than 250 thousand. The average number of live births in the Republic of Croatia is around 40, 41,000 vary from year to year. The average number of deaths in the Republic of Croatia is more than 50,000. So every year, we have a population reduction of 10,000, so the decline in the natural growth of the population. It is clear that the measures taken by the former government in terms of maternity benefits and all that has been brought in then, which is good, commendable and this measure falls into that segment, but there is something else. Namely, when the time of pregnancy passes, the child’s breast - feeding time remains in the family with his mother and what did we do during that period after breast - feeding or what can the state do? France, which has had due to the wars it has waged since the Napoleons and so on, thus a major demographic downturn where it has been analysed that it is necessary for mothers and parents to allow after the breast-feeding period the possibility of their child being taken care of. So they invested state money from the state budget in the opening of mangers and kindergartens everywhere, every parent who had a child was in France today free of charge and available both mangers and kindergartens. It neither burdens the home budget nor burdens the mother or father, the parents, so that they can do other jobs or earn money for that child and for that family. We buy 150 cars for so-called. The protected or well-known persons and this is derived from the budget of the Republic of Croatia and a number of other things and items in the budget of the Republic of Croatia have that if they were to be summed up and achieved one figure of approximately one billion kuna, which is not even 1% of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then we would have achieved the same thing that France did. Free and available spins its children in the Republic of Croatia as one of the measures of demographic renewal. But let us go back to the very legal proposal that applies to pregnant workers, so the workers, as they say here, who are born or breast-feeding. All rights, therefore, to what is written here, and to what they exercise their rights by this legal proposal, I sign. But I'm asking a question. What about workers who need to get a job and are pregnant? What about the employer's attitude towards women who are pregnant and who are looking for a job? And today, for stock exchanges in employment offices, there are about 200 grand, and men are 150 grand. Of those 200 thousand women of fertilized age, it's certainly 150 grand. Do you think either one of them or that one of them is given a chance if she's pregnant to have no employment problems? So it's not covered by this bill, it doesn't say here in the law. It's regulated by other legal acts, but we all know there's a real real problem in that segment. There really is. Let's ask around, let's ask around. Is there a chance or women who are pregnant and are looking for a job giving up already knowing that they're pregnant because they know that they can't go to the so-called. The briefings, the interviews and how it's not all called when they come to the employer looking for a job. Here's what's not regulated by this law, maybe someone else, but that thing is a real problem. Someone here said a register of employers who don't respect this law should be published. Here I am using the word register as those who speak about defenders even though we have our words for the register, I think the register is a foreign word but if we started putting everything in some registers and those taxpayers and the Defence Register, then here's the register of employers who are bad at business and who are bad at dealing with pregnant women, breast-feeding and others. Mrs. twilight said that. All right, so be it and be it, we'll have a license plate. The employers here are also former HUP chiefs, while there is this problem in the employment of pregnant women, while there is a problem of women already in employment, who are pregnant or breast-feeding or who are born and who are prescribed by this law of European format, these in practice our employers are really, in fact, misrepresented in this segment. With what already exists, which is that they don't pay a lot of contributions, then either they don't pay their salaries or they pay them with a backlog of 5.6 months or they pay in bonuses, in bonuses, where they can buy for some of those bonuses. So in Croatia, besides the kuna as a means of payment, there are some sort of bonuses. I won't tell which companies and whose, uh, they are. In addition to the fact that the employer is very often not for employees who have dangerous interests in injury and even loss of life, very rarely and provides workers, therefore there are insurance companies, there is our Croatia that will sell but few of them decide to pay for life insurance, insurance against injury to the insurance company. So this is another problem, that is, the problem of the relationship between employers and their workers. One more question for all of us. Which is why, in the past, if negotiations have already been in place and we have... with the European Union we have not previously applied these acts of this legislative proposal, once we have already joined the European Union, we have been negotiating with them for 8 years, and here this legislative proposal comes in half a year before we hope to join the European Union. These laws have been in the European Union for a long time, so it is not clear to me that chapter 19 is that we have not applied this before or that it has not been appropriate for anyone to apply these provisions. In any case, better ever than never, which is why the HDSSB club supports this legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24575	Thank you. Two replicas to your exposure. My colleague, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24576	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Kola Grubisic is rightly in this debate, which he of course extended which logically touched the issue of kindergarten building, it is also an extremely important issue. I remind myself of the national population policy that has been voted here, and it seems unanimous to me in the Croatian Assembly where it clearly indicates who is in charge and through the implementation of the national policy for the construction of kindergartens. It's mostly cities, municipalities, of course county can, of course, the state, but it's mostly local administration. The absurd that we were facing, and I as Prime Minister, that some units of local self-government asked the government to from the budget reserve, specifically the city of Croatia Kostanica last year, to give out budget reserves to pay for aunts in kindergartens. We've allocated 700 thousand kuna to the survival of kindergarten, and unfortunately, it doesn't seem to have extended that practice, that no money has been found. I don't know what's going on with the kindergarten in Croatia, but the situation was critical. There were other examples like that. I mean, we haven't fully regulated that system, and if one city or one municipality that we decided to make in the Croatian Assembly to justify itself as a city or municipality can't pay a few aunts in kindergarten, a few employees who will work with children, then of course the question is how can this city or municipality function at all. And that is the question that we should have fun here, and that is why I think that this government should look again at the economic recovery programme that we proposed in 2010 where, among other things, as one of the measures over a period of several years, we are also proposing to reduce the number of cities and municipalities, and that is a question that we must once put on the agenda all together if we really want to solve problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24577	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24578	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, it is not a matter of reducing even though we have an administrative and administrative reshuffle we have an opinion and it is well known. It is not about reducing the number of towns and municipalities but about increasing the number of kindergartens, kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the size of units of local self-government. Now that you've mentioned Kostanica, and we have even worse examples in that part, the Court is far too late, I guess, but I wanted to tell you that the measures of national population policy by any government to implement them, and yours, which was 8 years old, have led to devastating results in this area. So demographic Croatia continues to impoverish, demographically it is indeed a state of disaster, as experts in the area point to. However, few listen to them, so neither this Assembly nor the Government listens to them. As if, I don't know how people expect it at all, so will these employers, who will be the base, working base, young people, who will work in Croatia in 20.30.50 years or we will import labour and not say what will happen in Croatia in 20.30 years, so I won't be able to speak any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24579	Thank you very much. And a replica number two of Đura Popio's respected advocates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, as you colleague Grubisic yourself said, Chapter 19 has been closed long ago. This means that it has been fully regulated from this area at that time. In addition, Article 37 of the Law stated that the employer is obliged to ensure in particular protection in the work of workers, minors, women and workers of reduced working skills, etc. And then, of course, it defines that collective agreements must establish jobs and relationships that regulate that area. And this law, apart from these already established criteria, explicitly defines pregnant women, breast-feeding women and harmonizes them with other legal standards of the Republic of Croatia. So it was settled. And secondly, here's the thing, I don't know why I didn't expect you and your colleague Grubisic to join, here's the current authority that accuses entrepreneurs and businessmen of everything, so here's to the fall of the social product, even for this and for that, and now, of course, you're calling them out for general discrimination against women, births, pregnant women. If there's a way for us to replace these entrepreneurs, businessmen for some others, then we do them. But I'm afraid we're going to have to live with that and those indictees for everything and everything, so it's probably going to come to the conclusion that they're probably also guilty of demographic flows in Croatia. I don't think that's exactly right or right, that we need to actually know who's capable of carrying this society forward into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24581	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24582	Thank you very much. A fellow drinker, the paper suffers everything, you can write on it a lot as well as legal suggestions. Unfortunately, practice in reality is something else, and you know it well if you're moving among people, amongst ordinary people, amongst citizens. Then you know well and maybe you get memos like I get about a number of exactly not to say the violations and the problems that are just coming out of these and despite the existence that it says positive legal regulations. But as for my support to some current authority, I don't know what you see when you're here every day, if you're here then you see that as we've always been critical of you when you've been in power, we are now even more critical of this other side. So don't let us do this at all, we don't need to be slow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24583	Thank you, too. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak are next. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24584	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian Labourers – The Party of Labour will support this Bill on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Work with the Final Proposal, but in any case, when it comes to protection at work, we certainly have part of our thinking, but also part of the practice we have heard today. And as much as someone defends employers and takes sides with employers we have a completely different situation in Croatia when it comes to protection at work as much as we may have good regulations, but practice tells us about something completely different. It is clear that a set of laws that speak of the protection of pregnant women, women who are breast-feeding or who have not long been given birth in the law is prescribed and this part is a certain progress in the protection of these categories of workers. But what do we practically have in practice? Most women who work for example in a textile industry store with this high unemployment of 350,000 unemployed, and a large number, over 50% of them women simply don't have the opportunity to get to a job or possibly, and if they do, they get hired for a certain time, and we know that our employment practice is somewhere over 80% of contracting for a certain time. And then we ask ourselves a question at all what perspective these women have if they get pregnant or eventually give birth to get to work. Clearly, employers also use things that should not be served the way women look for a job, and then they make it clear that they should not be pregnant, etc. which is some sort of criterion and kind of discrimination against these women. And clearly that's something we have to work on consciously to change certain circumstances when it comes to female employment. Work protection is a very important factor and in practice we have something quite different, and we can in some way support it with the fact that we have a lot of disabled workers, we have a lot of sick workers, we have a lot of sick people who in some way also employers complain about creating certain damage that I do understand. But in the context where we speak and when it comes to the means that should be invested in the protection of workers, this is practically not happening in practice. I am personally pleased that the section gave up certain changes to this Law that should have been done in some way, and it went in this direction that workers themselves had to obtain certain protection and equipment to protect themselves from work, rather than from the employer. And by motto in some way to dissipate this employer. I think that we are still far from that degree of thinking and that, within that, when we talk about the technological progress of our companies and when we talk about working conditions, it is far from those countries in the EU that we are curving at a higher level. And clearly, with strict application and work protection obligations applied to these companies, better conditions are then a better picture when we talk about people with disabilities, when we talk about workers' diseases and their illnesses, which clearly gives effect throughout society, and that is part of a positive shift. What I still want to say when it comes to this law, although it in large part of its Article 2 obligates employers in some way to ensure additional protection in the work of minors, pregnant workers, workers who work or breast-feed a child, as well as those where there is a professional inability to work and a direct risk of being disabled according to specific regulations and clearly in this article in paragraph 4, that it is the obligation of the employer to protect that part and create working conditions, but simply we Croatian Labourists are thinking that Article 41 should not be deleted because we think that in no part of it is in any way contrary but that it also gives a certain category of protection of workers that the worker with reduced working capacity under a specific law should not carry out jobs where there is a risk of reducing his remaining working ability. Why am I saying that? Well, mostly because there's a lot of unemployment. If the employer cannot create certain working conditions in a given workplace and there is one particular blackmail on workers, and what is clear in the part of the acceptance and their performance operations is making their situation worse and in some way even if, with the prescribed legal procedure, the employer has taken advantage of all the opportunities to ensure such a place of employment, he can declare such workers as surplus under the legal procedure. And clearly, in addition to the part and the increased severance payments that must be paid, we do not find that this article 41 does not simply need to be deleted from the Labour Protection Act and that it should not be an obstacle to compliance with EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24585	Thank you, Your Honor. It is next to the Club of HNS Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24586	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. At first, I would like to say that, of course, as I assume most of the other parties, i.e. all the other parties in the Assembly, will support this law because indeed this law covers one topic that should not be some important political opposition and that, as people and as responsible persons, the elements of this society should have a consensus. It's about amendments and additions to the law that was passed back in '96. The EU has seen a number of changes over the last few years in the process of harmonising with the acquis. However, the fact that it has not been fully harmonised by today and that this morning we have on the agenda of these amendments and additions that should bring our legislation in line with the EU acquis to an end. It is about increasing the right, or regulating the position of breast-feeding mothers in the workplace, creating certain conditions that would be appropriate and that are in line with the positive practice that exists in European society. However, as well as my colleagues, I will take the right to extend this subject on behalf of the CNS. I will also agree with my colleague Grubisic, who mentioned the problem of the network of kindergartens and mangers as a kind of, i.e. basic support for young mothers and young families. I will also agree with my colleague, Tušak, who has partly opened the topic I intend to open this morning in this High House. What is really the situation in Croatian society, and what are the real women's rights? What is the status of young women when it comes to the achievement of a professional career and the establishment of a working relationship today in the Republic of Croatia? The situation is such that it is actually a national disgrace that we all very much remain silent about as pragmatics and very rarely, especially at this political level as the Croatian Parliament opens up the measure of things. When it comes to the public sector, of course, as in everything else in the public sector, there are workers' rights, as well as women's rights, to the greatest extent, also the positive regulations and some practice that testifies to humanity, however, when it comes to the private sector, we must once tell the truth. This country cuts white death. In all major cities, in all urban cities especially every year, more people die than they are born and everyone wonders why, they try to find a reason for changing social changes in different habits, different perceptions of life about how young people don't want to have children or don't want to have more children. However, part of the truth lies in the fact that part of the entrepreneurs implement the practice of human resources especially when it comes to the female labour force of the SSS, which avoids the establishment of a permanent working relationship. It's the politics of some strong houses in this country, let's not lie to the ladies and gentlemen that everyone is silent about. The SSS especially in companies that by the nature of their business are looking for a larger share of women's labours the system is to hire a woman for a year, hire a woman again for a year, so when we crack the legal limit how many times we can hire the same person for a certain time then of course we'll go to a well called the Employment Service and grab a new number of women we've taken away from every perspective in life and the right to become mothers in some appropriate time. And on behalf of the protection of entrepreneurship, we all wisely remain silent. And that's the truth. Thousands of such examples are examples, and thousands of examples are in which young women who work in such companies are afraid of losing their jobs and existences do not base marriage as the desired institution in this society and do not base themselves or engage in pregnancy and do not engage in becoming mothers. And their years pass by, and we keep silent about it, and we bear witness to it. In the coming years, or perhaps months to come, it will show whether we are as a society and as a policy, the overall policy of all here as far as we are ready to open this issue and ready to stand by the corrections of the law in the way of such practice. That's the real truth where we have to start speaking out loud when it comes to young women's rights, the real mother's right is the fundamental question of how they're going to become a mother if we didn't allow her as a society, if we allowed her to be unprotected, if we allowed someone to profit from their business progress based on such a practice that is for every conviction. Clearly, we will never create an ideal legal system, nor will we ever make such a system of law with such content that there will be no hole in it. But the fact is that we quietly tolerate the practice that makes us less and less every year and that actually results in us not being able to show that we are a society that has fully protected the rights of young women. Nevertheless, we welcome this change in HNS and consider it absolutely positive and as a party and as a parliamentary club we will vote for this item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24587	Thank you, Your Honor. Five replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's go in order, first replica and esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24588	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Baranovic your debate and I must say that the debate of all your predecessors reminded me of an old HNS proposal that I think may have come the time to revive him, and this is about encouraging employers in the form of tax reliefs and other ways to open up naturally in accordance with all the rules of the profession, to open kindergartens within companies, especially large companies that employ a lot of people. Well, here I think the time has come for us to make such a proposal and we're going to be in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24589	Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24590	Here's a very short one. Dear colleague Coleman agrees with you, and I will agree with any representative who gives the initiative how to correct this anomaly of Croatian society and how to give these young families a chance to function normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24591	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24592	Thank you, Mr. President. You asked your colleague Baranovic one question that I agree with, of course, you said what the situation is about real young mothers, about women, about employment and about the exercise of fundamental rights and, of course, you insisted more on the rights of employment in the private sector, etc. and I would like to extend this question and say, what are the rights of young women in rural areas in the villages that they have achieved and have proved to be extremely successful, the holders of the OPG or members of that family. And now in these circumstances when that strategic branch was brought to its knees, when it was torn down, what are their rights? They are simply the right to end up at the Employment Service and to have absolutely no rights, and we are talking about the even development of Croatia on equality, but then in these circumstances, when you advocate and for all of this, you should also raise your hand for those rights and women in agriculture, rural areas, and no tears were released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24593	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24594	... Since as a man I do not distinguish between women and people in rural areas against those in urban areas, especially as I come professionally from the agro system and when you look at some kind of systematization of Croatian agriculture then you can conclude very simply that I come from that branch myself. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24595	Thank you very much. And the third replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24596	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it didn't take long, so a respected colleague has definitely accused the private sector and entrepreneurship of demographic problems in the Republic of Croatia. So it just wasn't anything else to expect. In addition to all the accusations that the current authority is, and all of you here, who are representing the current authority, you join and add one more charge to private entrepreneurship, which is discrimination against women, mothers, pregnant women and you accuse them of demography. So wasn't it enough for you this year for everything you've done and for all this violence that you've done on private entrepreneurship and on the economy and these results at the end of the witness, the fall in GDP, the fall in industrial production, the decline in consumption and the fall in anything that can't fall. And now you're still going on with that rhetoric and you expect 50 billion kuna investment from the private sector. So who will come to such a country when the current government refers there to entrepreneurship. Of course, no one is against the implementation of all those obligations relating to protection at work, to the protection of workers and labour rights, but what you are talking about, you are accusing entrepreneurship of everything that is wrong in this country, and most of it and these problems and these duties are caused by you in this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24597	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24598	My dear friend, Poppie, my late mother was an entrepreneur, and I'm an entrepreneur, as such, I've come into politics. I opened my first seal at the age of 19 and paid my first salary to the employees. Of course, that's a piece of information you weren't even obliged to pay attention to, you don't have to know it, but here's your information for future discussions. But, of course, in your dating manner, you deliberately seem to have heard and overlooked that I was talking about part of the entrepreneurs, and you know very well that it's true what it is and you know very well that as a society we owe, regardless of all respect for entrepreneurs and all our desire for entrepreneurs to have good business results, people who use holes in the law in such a way that we owe them a statue at the end. Because among honest entrepreneurs there are vermin, as in all the population of the vermin, there are among entrepreneurs and, see, very good standards have very good results. Not wanting to do any bad commercials, I'm not and I'm not going to bother calling anyone individually. If you're asking me who's responsible for what's going on, then all the governments so far are responsible, including this one in the last year that she hasn't solved. And all the governments so far have been wisely silent because the great ones should not be resented and politics is not the least popular to do what I do today but to a man who has a conscience and does not slave small or large but the truth was my duty to open this question. Whether you understand it or not, I don't know, I'm letting you think about it a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24599	Thank you very much. The fourth replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24600	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Replica on a colleague of Baranovic's. In fact, I agree with every spoken word he said, but he himself said that he was coming out and spreading the subject, the white plague in Croatia and he tried to give one sighting of the cause of it, he just didn't talk about the solution but I want to get a little over and replicate it to this part of his exposure. And what you SDP and HNS boast about is that the European Union has forced you to make some amendments to the law and if the European Union hadn't forced you to do what you would have done, there would have been no proposal. And that's what you're boasting about. We have a little retrograde mind. The question in Croatia is what is the skeleton of Croatian politics and Croatian strategy in this area, whether every time every government has to rest again, whether we can agree on something, that Croats are getting smaller and Croatian residents are getting smaller and that it should be stimulated. In 2000, by coming to power, you cut taxes, reduced tax fees, so that was almost one subject that was a minus variant. On the other hand, we've raised all governments with 3 billion kuna associations, different associations that represent. Croatia could have spent 100 years without these associations, 100 more years without associations. We're giving 2 billion to associations. I claim, my replica to Mr Baranovic, that there is not enough intervention in labour legislation, it is impossible to control privates and entrepreneurs. It's true what you say. I don't agree with Mr. Djur Poppie that it's an attack on entrepreneurs, but it's true that private entrepreneurs are in some way making it impossible for pregnant women. Don't laugh, this is too serious a subject to be spoken one way or another. But we're not going to solve the white plague in Croatia, this is my replica, until we pay, until... the resources of women regardless of whether they're in a working relationship...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24601	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24602	We should in some way stimulate a third child, a fourth child and give a woman money regardless of whether she works in the state sector, whether she's employed or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24603	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, your time is up. Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24604	Dear colleague Marasovic, here's thank God we agreed on something. I'm extremely glad that you said that you and your colleague disagree and that we're actually looking at this thing the same way. When you have an idea about how and how to help young people to start a family, be sure that I will be on your side because it really is a matter of national importance that the dial turns backwards. And in 10.15 or 20 years, we'll be in serious trouble. This is not a question of right or left or liberal or any other political option and commitment, it is a matter of common sense, it is a matter of loyalty to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and when it comes to national interests, this kind of thing should have a consensus. And as well we should have a consensus around the truth, so much so in that part of this morning you and I agreed. It's very nice to meet you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24605	Thank you, Your Honor. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I must say, I am impressed by what my colleague Baranovic was talking about, protecting women, public policy. I kind of recognized my words from those times in 2001 when I was sitting in these benches just the same as the opposition representative and saying that the population issue was a national first-rate issue, that it was a strategic issue, a matter of national security, an economic issue. Because of course if there isn't, if we're not there, then who's going to do it? However, I do not agree that all governments were blind and deaf to it. I remind you that here we are in the last term, among other things, delegating birth benefits for the first six months in women who are employed. So they receive full pay for six months no matter how big that salary is. It's a small shift, but extremely significant. That we also introduced maternity benefits for women who are housewives who have never worked and will never work. However, I would like to refer to something else you said that many women did not give birth simply because they worked with cruel employers. Here's what I don't agree with. Perhaps the conditions in which many women worked affected the number of children, but women did. When he starts typing a biological clock, there's nothing to stop a woman from becoming a mother. And that's the truth. And many women were born under impossible conditions. So, indeed, on the one hand, they were out of work, and unfortunately, they had conditions in their own family, conditions of violence, terrible conditions in which they had to give birth and raise children, but they still became mothers. And I think that, of course, I don't want to defend employers in any way, but employers sometimes, and I'm going to talk about it in my debate, we're going to impose through the laws of conditions that I simply and in my best wishes can't meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24607	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24608	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, here's what I'm going to do from the last thing you said. I am not an opponent of entrepreneurs as I said and my personal and private habitat is entrepreneurial. But we have to, and we don't have to punish anyone. I don't think we have to deal with witch hunting, but we have to make assumptions about the corrections of the law to reduce the maneuvering space for such access and such procedures. As for the motive for which I opened this debate this morning, it did not come in itself and honestly when a man admits few men especially my professional orientations thinks about the problems of women in society. I'm just like a man who, a young man who got into politics already at the very beginning as a city councilman, experienced me being stopped by women who work in such companies and mentioned the problem, so I talked to some young women and young parents who were my personal friends asking a question, so what are you waiting for, and it's been years for you. So I was given the answer, and how in God's name am I supposed to get pregnant when I'm out of a job to feed my baby? It's not simple decisions. I agree with you that at the end of the day, a woman who feels the need to break and go into suspense, but we are the ones who must remove this uncertainty and remove the restrictions that mother not only be a mother once, but if she has the will and the energy to be a mother twice and three times. And finally, what the governments have done so far. Some probably are more, some less. I have to admit I haven't followed it since 2001, then I was still hunting fish somewhere in the middle Adriatic, and I was just entering politics. But now that I'm sitting here getting paid by Croatian taxpayers, my conscience tells me to pay attention to every problem. Things need to be looked into the future and tried to solve them, and too much to cry about, what my Sibeniks say "is of little use for spilled milk". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24609	Thank you very much. We're going forward with the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now it's time for the HSU club and the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24610	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this debate so far proves to be one thing, that the magical power of television. Otherwise, if it had been discussed last night after 8:00 on this bill, the debate would probably have been over in half an hour. However, we are now discussing five articles of the law for the second hour. Otherwise, there's not much to say here. I'm not going to mess with anyone because I know this area well. And here I will argue that the amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act since 14 July 2003 have been very good and are based on all the consent of the European Commission that this area is well in line with European legislation. Thank you very much. So I confirm that since 2003, the law has been a fundamental basis for assessing the compliance of this area with European legislation. What does it mean? So that means that the ones who said these changes weren't missing the system are right, these changes are missing the law. If we go on the formal side, these changes are required by law, but the system has processed this matter. Namely, all this that is now proposed has been resolved by sublegal acts, it has been settled by the Regulation on jobs with special working conditions, where it is fully regulated by the work of minors, the work of pregnant women, the work of sucklers, and it is defined by the work that cannot interfere with both mothering and childhood or the development of a minor. So we're not gonna let you know which state, we have this system arranged. The second thing is how much we want the system to work. Now that's a different story. This will not be resolved by this law, nor will full discrimination on women at work be resolved. This is just a little hint that it's built into this law. Nor will this law solve the unemployment of which much is said, nor will mobbing at work, it will be solved by some, it is part of that system, but it is solved by other measures and other instruments. It is certain that this law and sublegal acts can address the damages and dangers at work, make them aware of the least possible, the recent occurrences of working monotony, the forced position of the body, and therefore the new harmfulness and dangers either from chemical, physical harmfulness or from the working position itself or the rhythm of work. This can be solved, it is solved in this system, but these other categories that are too demanding and can only be gone in an interdisciplinary way, so such models can be applied to them in a comprehensive manner, nor can this law have ambition nor can it be solved. So, I didn't hear, there were minimal changes from 2003 to today of this law and I didn't really hear, I'm following this area, it's my profession, I haven't heard a single word that this Labour Protection Act is bad in any part of it. But the time is, next year is 10 years of this law, things change over 10 years, it's time to evaluate the entire legislation of protection at work and the assessment where we hit and where we didn't hit and it's time to make or fix or refresh the Law on protection at work. And that's the next move. I know that a working group has been formed which is working intensively on this and I expect that somewhere in the spring of next year we may see the draft of this law, i.e. to have a broad public debate on the principles of communication with the professional and interested public. In any case, through these changes, what they may notice is strengthened safely in one detail of the role of a figure that is very important in protecting the work, strengthening the role of medicine, or doctor of medical work, is placed on a higher level and its role in the event of an assessment that a pregnant woman cannot work on certain jobs or work tasks. What I would say in the end, so personally, as an expert in this area, I look forward to new amendments and additions to the Act on the Protection of Work which rests on the evaluation of the existing one, in order to really assess what we can do yet. Because I think there's a big space to make the Labour Protection Act better, to better define a risk assessment, not to work where there's no risk, but to do much better and more quality work where there are risks, to more emphasize prevention in protection at work, rather than punishment, to more precisely establish social dialogue, or labour participation to get it more at quality, rather than quantity. So it doesn't matter how many free hours there are and the work protection commissioners to act in the company rather than what he did to protect the workers at the workplace, so his colleague with his proposals, with improvements. So it's important, not whether someone will join the hours and become a professional, or not to do their jobs, but rather to be a parallel figure with a work protection engineer, a safety engineer in the company. Of course, what's missing from the system is the system of bonus malasses. So, the one who edits work protection in a way that has less accident, that he gets a bonus and where, in activities where there are a large number of accidents, where he doesn't invest in protection at work to have an increased insurance premium. Of course, you all know that employers of these risks are insured, or must be provided. Of course, we want what was started by this law to strengthen the role of working medicine as a key figure in assessing the health status of workers and with expectations, i.e. putting the situation at work in one balance, so their role wants to be strengthened. Strengthening the role of the Labour Inspectorate, I have seen some of the observations of the International Labour Organisation which has given the greatest criticism to our work protection system in a way that the role of the Labour Inspectorate is not preventive and advisory at all. So in that part should be put in a new way. And, of course, there are stereotypes here that the work protection experts have completed some ad hoc schools, that most of the referents are perceived as protective equipment referencers, and essentially they have to be extremely professional and have to know more areas in order to offer quality solutions and to be able to carry out quality supervision of the application of the rules of protection at work. So, these are, I think, we need to concentrate here on these areas that I said when proposing amendments and supplementing the real laws on protection on the work of those who are indeed resting on the perceived shortcomings of the current system of protection at work. We still need to see this more as a form of something like a change of contents. So we had it all but somewhere else in the law. If it's a way to meet some criteria to get it into the law, that's it, there's nothing to add or subtract to this, and I think we can all do it without any problems to support it. The HSU Club will surely support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24611	Thank you, Your Honor. Replications have been reported to your presentation. He is the first respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24612	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Hrelja, you kind of couldn't say hurt me, but you let me down and saddened me, so you declared this dynamic of this debate a consequence of our desire to everyone, so here I am to be or to say something on television. What are you talking about? Do you understand anything? This topic is so important this is a contitio son of qua non Croatian people and Croatian society. Tito sent over the labour force to Germany and sent out 3 million of them. In the 1990s, pensioners were created because there was nowhere to be found with the labor force of disbanded socialist factories. And so there was created a single pensioner's corps and some other social categories were turned into pensioners just to keep quiet. And now the pensioners are creating their own party, and these children need to create their own break. We have to eat all the grass green but we have to give them everything. But you know what my colleague Baranovic doesn't have here, protects all mothers and those children who need to be born from mothers who do. It would be enough for us to allow these unborn children to reduce the number of abortions and that of women who are married. Don't, and I warn you again, make fun of it in some way, only to reduce the number of abortions in marriage will give one institution that gives a psychological and sociological framework to us and it would be enough for us to come to Croatia annually to be born at least one more than dies. And we can kind of spend it and spend our resources on it and give it all and do it all. There are mechanisms, and I believe it can be achieved but there is no will in political furniture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24613	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24614	Dear colleague Marasovic, I cannot influence your experience of my debate, but surely I have listened to you if you have patience please, but I was certainly talking about the Law on the Protection of Work on these amendments and about the system of which this is a fundamental law. I did not spread the story to the demographic problems of Croatia or anything that matters but is not related to the topic. And secondly, I'm standing by the observation that we can thank this rich debate for the TV broadcast because I watched your statistic of colleague Marasovic, you didn't have any discussion outside television and every debate is exactly when we have a television broadcast, so that confirms what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24615	Thank you very much. It is the right of everyone to choose when they will speak to the Rules of Procedure. And the next replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24616	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Hrelja, I also noticed this claim of yours about the magical power of television because if you told her that last night's debate took place at 9 o'clock, then it would take 30 minutes. And as a doctor, I have to say that the debates at 9:00 p.m. and at 10:00 p.m. are also physiological and whatever we want to see is that it's true that there's little to think about how much concentration is possible. And as for television at that time and the ratings of these transmissions I keep in mind the various other events on television I don't believe that ratings would be. But another thing that's more worrying you said and there's nothing to say on this subject. I think it's very, very dangerous because it's about the future of the country. You may be speaking from the position of the population that you are allegedly representing, and you are representing it in such a way that they have been increased VAT on these pensioners since you were in the coalition, that the increased price of energy and all the rest of them have helped them... Why did you not advocate that this part of the population be protected in this way? And we stand up for it, I don't think I've said anything wrong if I said that the mothers and the women of the farmers were disproved about the relationship in agriculture. Many OPG carriers have failed, and those who are members of the household are on their way to collapse. There's a point in thinking that way justly and honestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24617	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24618	If you had listened well, you would have understood that I said that there was nothing to add or subtract here because this is how the amendments and the amendments to the law are right and includes this problem that we're talking about. Thus, there is nothing really added or taken away or there is some too much wisdom there. Another story is the way we represent our voters is the way in which we take advantage of all opportunities to improve living conditions and the work of pensioners. Unfortunately, you weren't too broad-handed in spite of the big words now. And as for the debate at 9:00 p.m., if we choose here, if we form as one company, one collective if we choose a work protection commissioner who should solve the work and 9 p.m. and the psychophysical abilities of the MPs I will propose to you as a work protection commissioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24619	Thank you, too. I believe in the ability and knowledge of the citizens that they will be able to assess both the other and the third debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have expired at 10.30 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes under this bill. This has exhausted the list of registered clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament by this topic. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. First is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24620	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here's what seems to me to be in a very indirect way, but a colleague of the Hrelja may have opened a real topic. He mentioned that he believed that many MPs would not report that there was no TV transmission, and in fact he wanted to say that one way was found, one modus that this very important topic was motivated by MPs to speak. Why I say it in an indirect way, I really cannot fully agree with it, I think that here is Mrs Kosor and my colleague Milinkovic and colleague Marasovic would discuss this issue because they really think it is an extremely important topic as well as a colleague of the Sumrak. However, you have indirectly opened the right path to address not only the regulatory but also the creation of conditions not about what parliamentary representatives will say but how employers will act, to find their own interest in respecting the law and to really protect workers who have recently given birth, pregnant workers or those who are breast-feeding in the workplace. That's actually what it's probably about, that's the way we should actually focus on, because I agree, the regulation itself, it existed in a different way, it wasn't at that legal level, it was regulated by sublegal acts but that was part of our system, it was consistent with Directive 92/85, and as a fellow drinker mentioned earlier, it was precisely why we could close Chapter 19. But on the other hand, if you want to give more weight to these solutions, put it on, include in the law why you don't go that way. Perhaps I would just line up here and add that there is more room in terms and coordination with the European Union Directive. If I remember correctly, Article 7 of that Directive defines nightly work more clearly, i.e. the ban on the night work of pregnant workers. In a much clearer way, it defines it than we and in this legislative proposal may now have defined. So maybe in time we'll come back with some legal proposal to further comply with the directive and maybe we should think about it, probably the Deputy Minister later on might say something about it. But the very fact that we have one extremely important topic on one hand because everyone has expanded this topic and on the issue of demographic renewal, or if you want a demographic survival better said in the Republic of Croatia, we may not have highlighted enough that civilizational level of women's rights and positions in society, and it is good that there was consensus between the different clubs of representatives here because that is exactly what I would say about the position of women, I would also say about the development of a society. If I can use my own foreign policy experience now, today we're helping, for example, it's already the former government that started it, but it's a good thing that this one has continued, we're helping women in Afghanistan because it's a key factor in the development of a society. It's simply a measure of civilization's development in social terms, but it's also very economic. We simply today in this modern time cannot afford only half of our population to be included in the labour market. It is simple for Croatia to develop its full lungs to breathe, and today we have a situation indeed that these 78,000 women are unemployed, that is 53.4% of the total number of unemployed. Of that, earlier said, there are probably about 150,000 women of fertilized age who, perhaps partly for that reason, employers do not want to hire and there is the key to the problem, there is the key to real discrimination on the ground. Not as regulated as it is, and not even about what the European Union Directive says or what our laws are, but about the employer's decision not to take the risk of female employment because we and these regulations are, in fact, putting all the burden of these additional labour costs on employers. And that raises one legitimate question of how on the one hand to protect women's rights, rights and safety and the health of pregnant workers or those who can become pregnant, and on the other hand have an effective market where our economy will be competitive. counterpart Coleman has made one proposal, but it seems to me that the issue of large systems, large economic operators, may be easier to resolve. At least a larger number in modern European job economies are created through small, medium-sized enterprises. How to help these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is the real question. We have seen that those liberal theories that are left to the market to regulate simply are not fair and lead to an effective market and a fair economy. But we also see that those socialist delusions that only state regulations will solve something, that because we vote today or Friday this law that everything will be resolved can also lead to a counterproductive effect, it can lead us to the fact that even less employers will want to hire women out of fear that they will not have any extra costs. And the solution is like always somewhere in a golden environment, that the state invests more in that infrastructure that it needs to be then and an employer motivated to hire women. Because of this quality that women bring, of course, to this job and in general the labour market, but that it also has the structure of support through mangers through kindergartens. It's been said here many times today. But what we failed to say is that at times when we have to reduce or at least be very responsible in the state spending from which we will not only central states but also those local ones. Perhaps it is legitimate to open the question of whether if it is established, here's just one example I'm going to give. Instead of investing in strengthening bureaucracy, not in strengthening but in increasing red tape, if, for example, the newly created Energy Investment Monitoring Centre has not given the desired results, that we may reroute those funds into investment in kindergartens, into a nursery, into something that will actually be an investment in our demographic recovery. These are the real questions that we need to think about and where we need to make concrete decisions. So here I would conclude in the end that it is extremely important for us to approach this right from the point of view and national interests in the global world. Something's said about it before. And to tie our decisions not so much to some ideological omens, but concrete solutions that will help us to truly create a better situation in which such legal provisions will also be encouraging for our employers to apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24621	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we have a set of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24622	Dear fellow, the fact is that we are practically bringing in 5 to 12, that we have had enough time from the start of negotiations to make some improvements in the Labour Protection Act itself. Well, you said yourself there's room. You mentioned night work. And I would mention working on Sundays, working in those big malls, working where practically not wanting to enter the space of that Committee on Gender Equality. But practically where most of the employees in these large shopping malls in large and small shops, these for a little while, if any of them were in view of the overall economic situation, are the women and those of the week, and they were written in certain sacred books, and even God was resting on that seventh day when he created the world until now, not one law but certain decisions, which I, as mayor of Djakova, made and practically when it was possible to ban work on Sundays in the town of Djakov. At that time, the Constitutional Court annulled such decisions and allowed practically the most exploitation of women on Sundays. Many have not even paid the work on Sundays with a double diary and I don’t know what and have practically separated their wife, mother from their children, husband, practically from their family. Well, here's my appeal, regardless of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because there's no such thing as Sundays in the EU right now. In Germany, shops close at 2 a.m. on Saturday and work only on duty at the airport, train, bus stations and those in which far higher prices are for those who do not arrive to make the purchase during the week.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24623	Thank you very much. Time's up. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24624	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here you go, buddy. You mentioned that we passed law five to twelve. I would disagree with that part, I say, because those provisions were already in the system. It's very good to have them regulated by this law now. However, such provisions have been before. As far as Sunday's work is concerned, as you yourself mentioned, it was the Constitutional Court's decision. But you also mentioned certain laws of God, so I would remember the letter of St. Paul Philmon when it comes to slavery. And you know that in the Roman Empire, unfortunately slavery was legal, so he wrote to his friend Philmon respect the law because you must obey the law as a citizen of Rome, but treat your slaves as free men. That's how you're gonna change... Start by changing the general social rules and will change the law on its own because society will change and improve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the message here is that of course we must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but that does not mean that employers are required to work on Sundays. And those who have this consciousness, and those who advocate promotion and Christian values in this Croatian society should then answer responsibly with responsible behavior and protect the working week.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24625	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24626	Dear fellow Stier, I am very grateful for the quality of the debate on this subject. She motivated me to add some more things. Namely, what's this about? It would be wrong for us here in this hall, and beyond all those who follow us to realize that because of the large number of unemployed at this point, we don't have to insist on the quality of protection at work. No, these are health people in the workplace is always priority no. 1. As is the priority of the Demographic Reconstruction Strategy is priority. We connected them today in the debate, they don't have to be connected, but this is being touched. So, in any case, you can't bid on this regardless of the economic crisis, on the recession, security has to be placed at the highest level and I say we can't condition it with the number of unemployed. What I also want to say is, I will defend by all the powers of the law that was passed on July 14, 2003 for one reason, because I was a participant in the negotiations at the time about making that law and it lasted very intensely full nine months. Labour inspection and employers and trade unions, professional associations also participated. So he's making a social dialogue. But he doesn't just serve to outwit someone, to force their own interest. It is this kind of social dialogue that each partner understands his general social role, that he is not just an employer because of interest but that he has this broader dimension. So, thank you for letting me say this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24627	Thank you, too. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24628	Well, here's my colleague, Hrelja, I'd just like to add to your replica that we must, of course, be aware that the cost of working in Croatia is unfortunately too high. That if we want to be more competitive in the global economy, we have to work on it. However, in what way? It is our entry into the EU and through the EU and through the mechanisms of this largest economic bloc in the global economy that we are looking for fair competition on the global market. Because do these standards, for example, work standards, in some countries of Asia, apply today? No, they are not respected and therefore, of course, labour prices there are much less so they are competitive. Is the solution to reduce labour protection in Croatia? It is not, but through negotiations at global level, and this is Croatia itself, for example. with one China, it will hardly be possible, but if it negotiates as an EU, as the most powerful global force in this world, because the EU economy is actually bigger and more than the economy of the United States if we consider it as one whole, then it is possible to establish just such conditions where fair competition will be. And that way we must work to improve our competitiveness of our economy. Of course, we too need to address some deficits through structural reforms so that our labour price is lower, while protecting workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24629	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24630	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Stier, you have asked one question that all these laws that have been passed and in what way will they actually be implemented and will they be implemented? And I agree with you, that's what I said in my debate. Indeed, for those of us who live in one Christian value, it is the family that needs the most possible protection in Croatia, and it is precisely because we know at this time and the most vulnerable and, let's say, by this budget for this year it is the most damaged. Well, here you were in the government of Mrs. Kosor, who was conducting politics, a population policy that cared deeply for the family. So I'd just like to remind you that despite the crisis and recession that was in 2009, 2010, in 2011, no birth benefits were touched at all, then birth benefits were decommissioned, and in the first 6 months for working mothers were full of pay, but for the first time these maternity benefits were for women who had never worked. Equally what is important, and what few people know is that in Croatia is the Ministry of Economy, here is the former Minister of Economy, the women entrepreneurs were subsidized by 75% of the price of kindergarten or extended child's stay over a period of 1 year. Of course, such measures have brought about effects. And we'd really like to go through all the legal regulations, but what I've been saying is, a lot more sensitivity and concern for the family and childcare keep working this way. However, this budget tells us that absolutely everything is within the limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24631	Thank you very much. Time's up. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24632	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleagues of the twilight can only agree with what you've brought out. Indeed, these measures were important, not only because they were adopted with a large dose of political courage at a time when it had to be cut in other areas but because they were continuous. And here I would just point out the question of continuity in this demographic policy. Because if there's a break, unfortunately you won't see the results. And that's what's important, I think what you've alluded to, is that there's no interruption now, regardless of the change of government in these concrete measures and generally in demographic or intelligence policy. I'm sorry, for example. that we lost the Ministry of the Family, which the family fell out of that name. In some ways, a new probably political orientation or where priorities are, or where they are no longer priorities. And family should be our priority to all of us because it is the foundation of our society. Only through healing and through a healthy family can we have social development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24633	Thank you, Your Honor. Next replica and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Stier, you've touched a whole series of problems in your debate, here's one of them, and colleague twilight pointed out. Surely these changes will increase protection at work, but surely these changes will bring about what you said, with additional regulation it is placed on the employer's burden. We can't stay deaf we can't stay I'll tell the blind on that, we have to help the employers. How to help when and the central state, rather than giving even more incentive measures at this point to employers just as the former government has given encouraging measures to employ employers who have hired parents mainly with young children, young families, we have abolished all of this in this budget. However, we have not only abolished in this budget such encouraging measures as fellow Stier, we have also abolished the promotion of education measures. So I don't know how the state that passed the new Preschool Law or would bring it to you because most of the time, it will certainly pass, provide additional funds for preschool education. Let us not expect from the local community that is today being collected by heating, electricity, living conditions, let us not expect that they will be able through public needs programmes to meet precisely these measures that they will be able to help their employers with these measures. Surely we can't expect this from the local community because believe that after New Year's Eve in the local community, the city of Sisak is one big city, one former industrial city, its budget is on its knees, it's been cut in half. And halved because especially after the New Year's, and since the 15th heat in Sisak, it costs 37.6% in the most endangered part of Sisak, it will have to settle the basic cost of living for its citizens through its social programme. So let's not count on the local community to be able to help anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24635	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24636	Here, thank you, colleague. Of course, you presented the problem of the town of Sisak, I could be associated unfortunately and in my Samobor the addition is even of 38.5% for heating and it is clear one blow to the local community of course and to the citizens of Samobor city. However, here and before we have opened the topic we must overall reduce state spending if we want to have a more competitive economy if we want to help our private sector, and this requires a better distribution of one better priority within the state budget. I only mentioned the establishment of some new bureaucratic offices that over the course of the year did not give obvious desired results like this center. We don't need to politicise about it, we may accept others, but it's time to deal with it and that redistribution goes exactly in the direction where we can strategically invest and which is more strategic than investment precisely in the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24637	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24638	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Stier is undeniable that over the years he tries to influence the position of women above all in the labour market. But if we look at all the figures if we're real and we look at what's actually happening, it's that it's not the same position as men and women on the labour market, primarily through economic activity through employment, so women's wages are lower and there's the most visible inequality. I'll give you an example of Međimurje County, the most unemployed women of 7 thousand unemployed, for example, in June in Međimurje County, there were almost 4 thousand women, most of whom with 20 to 30 years of employment and most of them without a year's work experience. I have a concrete example from my family of a young woman coming looking for a job, asking her first how old she is and what we thought was a stereotype that would no longer be repeated, whether she was going to get married and when she thinks about having children. As far as the size of companies in Međimurje County is concerned, the most employees are in small companies. But do I ask you, when an employer is therefore a small businessman in the economic crisis, thinking about every kuna, when there is not enough country transport, when we see what is being reduced, whether then he asks himself whether if a female person is employed is going to be an additional cost and whether women are experiencing an additional risk. So that's something we have to ask ourselves. Similarly, with women who are pregnant women who intend to stay pregnant and have children, are they also at risk? And speaking of which, I will end up now, Mr. President, when we talk about women who should work at home or work with more employers, let's be serious, someone will be happy if they have a job and only one employer, let alone two.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24639	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24640	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, in fact, only one great example, but indeed one real experience that unfortunately happens, which shows that the market itself cannot regulate this issue on one hand, because unfortunately, women would indeed be and are indeed discriminated against. On the other hand, the state itself is regulatory if it is not accompanied by the real investment of the state where it needs to solve anything. In other words, if only freedom of the market is not a solution, if only state interventions or regulations in the economy are not a solution then on this side we are talking about a social market economy about a combination where, through the principles of market freedom, the very social policy where it will protect those minimum rights that are necessary for society to develop. And in this sense, by investing in that infrastructure and the nursery and kindergarten, the employer will then be in a situation that he too will be able to do without the greater problems he has today to employ more women. Because it's not just a question of unemployment, it's also a small number of women employed, so that low employment and participation of women in the group. There's one of the biggest problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24641	Thank you, too. And the last replica of your presentation, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Stier, you have courageously taken a step further, and I believe on the trail of my presentation and debate, therefore in connection with further incentives for a positive thinking about parenting that would help to rebuild demographic Croatia. So they talked about the available and as I said to free mangers and kindergartens for all children in the Republic of Croatia, and based on the budget allocations from that energy center that is inefficient and their costs, I told 150 cars for protected persons, and then from those money that should be recovered after the trial to all those who participated in corruption and crime, and according to some of my personal research, it was about some 900 million kunas, so that it would be exactly how you and I said it would be. The alibi of the former government, so your party and these present children's kindergartens and mangers are a matter of local self-government, some communities of religious etc. And it's always going through. Here I had an answer to such a question from your Prime Minister that it was a matter of local self-government, and it's not a matter of local self-government. Well, it's not a feudal society to lock everyone up in their own county and every lord has its own end and I don't let kindergartens build, state or I don't know what. Well, that's not true. This country is so highly centralised that it can simply pass such a law and such predisposition that it spins, mangers are made throughout the country and can be available and free of charge to its children in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24643	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honorable Agent Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24644	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic actually seems to me that Mrs Kosor has replied that she may and may be in the strategy envisaged that and if she needs a central state but of course it is good for the local community to take care of this. And I would add, you mentioned religious communities, they may also have a prominent role in the establishment of both nursery and kindergarten, and my proposal did not go in that direction that the state must now remove them and take that role, but actually valorise it and perhaps through certain legal solutions. The former government, for example. The previous government also did so with primary schools where it was admitted that, for example, Here the religious community can have, especially the Catholic Church in our society, a prominent role and in primary schooling, with the support of the state. Why, because it actually makes a church do something useful for the common good, and parents will choose if they want to go to that school or to another public school. So here's how extreme secularism actually makes certain practical pragmatic solutions impossible for us, and co-operation and unity, in fact, that we should all have, not only in this House, but in society to solve this issue, is the path that we're going to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24645	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24646	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, of course, at first, I'll make a little joke because my colleague Hrelja warned that this subject was being debated because it was a direct TV broadcast and that it would not be debated if it wasn't there. I think he actually sent one wrong message that way, and I believe that's the kind of message he didn't want to send, that this is a meaningless subject that we're only discussing right now because someone's watching us. That's not true. I think I have the right to discuss this because as a family minister, I have also written with my associates the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination and Family Law, but also many others who are exclusively concerned by these issues. So it's good to go into amendments and amendments to the law, so of course the law is in line with the acquis, so the legal property of the European Union, but also what's equally important is with the birth and parental support law that also came out in my ministry of the former when I was a minister of the family. It is a very good law that should naturally be fully implemented because we have extended the opportunities and space to use maternity leave, or parental leave and to the fathers, but certainly made it possible once again that women who work receive full pay for 6 months after giving birth, but also introduced into the system and maternity benefits for women housewives, so those who have never worked and those who will never work. Efforts, but there's still a lot of work to do, equalize all mothers, so every mother whether she works or doesn't work, whether she's employed or not as valuable and important to society. What seems important to me is that this law, of course, which, by changing which is small but actually big and important, represents a significant step in ensuring the conditions in which women are working, who are always and regrettably, I think will be discriminated against on the labour market in the future, which, as it is already pointed out, are very often thrown out whether they are married, whether they are married, not only are they married, whether they are in a relationship, whether they are born, whether they intend to give birth, if they already have a child, whether they want to have more children. I've listened many times to women who, unfortunately, are afraid they'll be fired, that they'll get fired for hiding their pregnancy. So, they've been working with all the means, and you know what I'm talking about is that as long as possible they don't see it, they won't be visible, they won't be visible to the employer. Therefore, I want these amendments and amendments to the law to be such that every employer can implement them and must fulfil his legal obligation. Because often, yesterday, we talked about it, and we're making laws that are simply inexecutable in some parts. So if we see this here at the beginning of the amendments and the addition of the law we try to fix it in such a way that the employer and, of course, I do not defend employers, but I want to say that sometimes they are in almost impossible conditions if they want to meet some legal obligation, so that they can do anything to ensure that the law is implemented. What exactly am I thinking about? So it wouldn't be good if we had in these changes and additions to the so-called "legal." A rubber standard, which can be interpreted in different ways. In order to avoid doubt, I will read the exact philosophy in amendments to the law, as stated in Article 2. "Pregnant worker and worker who gave birth or who nursed a child" etc. "shouldn't work on jobs that threaten her, or the child's life or health. So, I'm warning you of this formulation of laborers that she gave birth to. The worker, or woman who gave birth, is every woman who gave birth. And an employer can be found in a great deal of trouble, because any woman who has given birth can actually be interpreted as reading this provision in fact as it says looking for special working conditions. I think it would be very important and well, in the light of the law there is a woman who is, a worker who recently gave birth. Try to find such a philosophy that will determine exactly what the legislator is on, and then finally when we vote and the legislator thought, so tomorrow the employer has no problem with the demands of all the women who have given birth to ensure their special working conditions. I think that's important. I ask you to really take this remark well-intentioned because it is. I often repeat how often we don't know how we'd actually end up implementing the laws, and if we can't implement them, if we don't implement them, then they don't make any sense. So either recently or a year after going back to work, six months after going back to work. We'll find a common solution. And one more thing. Since it is proposed to delete Articles 40 and 41 but I warn of Article 40 which speaks of minors, i.e. minors who are not allowed to work under certain conditions, must therefore not work at night. That provision is deleted. There is no direct ban on the work of minors at night in these amendments to the law. Yesterday we talked about it here, and we introduced it into one law, a law on criminal proceedings that we have brought into line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, that the child is every person until the 18th year. So every person under 18 is a child. Here, of course, because we are now in a small conflict and with the provisions of the Labour Act, about when in fact a person in Croatia can be employed and from which year can work. For all I know, it's been 16 years. But I warn you that the Family Law says that a child up to 16 years old, so a person up to 16 years without a parent's escort or a parent's trust must not be longer than 11 hours, from 23 hours behind home. So, can it work, can't work. Did we forbid this to work at night? In my opinion, not if we delete article 40 and actually what person it's about. So can kids work or can't? Whether we have to provide children who work and each child is up to 18 years of age with special working conditions or not. So, I warn of problems and difficulties in interpreting the laws that many employers will face, and, of course, I personally support any amendment that will allow for further consolidation and dignity of women and further enabling and expanding the space for the employment of women, which we have naturally done through changes in the system of surcharges and through changes in the system of maternity benefits. But we have to build that space over and over again. And what we built must be kept safe. Any pull of any brick from that wall can bring down the entire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24647	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have four replicas on your exhibit. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24648	Well, here's the esteemed MP. Indeed, this law represents a certain step. However, we and women who used to work in Kamenski and Dalmatinka, a new one, in Djakovština, are among this number of nearly 350,000 unemployed in Croatia. I'll go back to that week's work story. Unfortunately, no government, regardless of the laws that exist in the Republic of Croatia, could change or pass the law, in line with most EU countries that have limited their work on Sundays. I especially mention the Federal Republic of Germany here. But what's saddest about us is we have the holiday law, we've had amendments to the holiday law, among other things, I'm during not your government but the government of the captain with a little vitre has asked for an amendment where Easter finally became a holiday in the Republic, as well as Christmas and the second day of Christmas. However, I assured one representative from your party that in Croatia it was in these large shopping centres, it was Mr. Lucic, so I told him to ask his wife when she came home to take Christmas holidays, on Easter, on all holidays, on the Day of Work in Croatia. Although it is in the very law that the state holiday by force of the law is an unworkable day. So I wonder, I don't have four seconds yet, President, so I wonder where is the legality of such decisions, and where are the inspections and inspectorates that need first of all to protect the work and the right of the workers on vacation?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24649	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I agree with one part of what you have said in the replica, but there are, of course, different practices in different countries, as well as in EU countries, and how much time it is, for example, and working day. You know, there are countries where actually after 18 hours, there's almost nothing more you can buy and there are different cases and different examples. As for the ban on working Sundays in the Republic of Croatia, you know that the final decision has been made and adopted by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24651	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24652	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well esteemed Madam MPs with a lot of understanding for this law and indeed an interest in this topic now in your debate spoke. What you said here today, none of us did or seemed to have noticed, and it's very important. Well, without at all here, I don't know any modesty, or some others, I can say that you've acted like this and as a parliamentary representative back in the '90s and then as a minister, but then also as prime minister in these matters, but also in others as prime minister, where there should have been a lot of courage at the time of the recession of some passing laws. I would just mention, we've listed a lot of things here, but what's in this segment of social policy, but also in the family, especially with regard to rural women, so the women in the rural area that we can say without any modesty are the pillars of our society because they're actually producing around 25% also contribute to the budget in their production. So this particular reference to this Law on maternity benefits, namely maternity leave, and to women who have never worked, has been particularly well accepted by those in the country because they have finally received recognition that they are also valuable regardless of what they preserve our tradition. Some say fireworks, that it's a very mocking expression, I personally don't think so. Because keeping a family in one environment, that is, means just as it used to be to keep fire in the fireplace, and we know well what it means in conveyed meaning. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24653	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade twilight, I think it's good to remind you of what you're reminding me of today. In fact, it's often too quickly forgotten, and I think it's good to remind ourselves simply so that we can all work together at least when it comes to population policy, take care of the family that we're going to do and how we're going to move on. It is true, in 2009, which was a terrible year, a year of crisis when we had to cut the budget, when we had to cut, when we were cutting here at the end, and I'm not ashamed to say it because it was an emergency, when, in agreement with wartime wartime people, we reduced their pensions by 10%, when we cut our salaries to civil servants, of course and officials, etc., we banned both the employment and the purchase of cars, so we didn't even touch a drop of 4 billion kuna that was allocated in the child allowance budget and birth benefits. This was the case in 2010 and 2011. So that's something that should remain as a place of agreement and a place of consent. But when you mention everything that's been done over the past year, I think it's good to remind you of this opportunity and the possibility of using three-year maternity leave for twins mothers, three and more children. So that possibility was abolished in 2001, and then it was returned. The so-called so-called "supervised" was introduced. the ultimate supplement, for example, for every 3 and 4 children. In addition to the regular salary of another 500 kuna for every 3 and 4 children, this was an effort, it is part of the programme that we adopted in this House, population policies so that families decide on more children. And it's a good thing this government didn't touch that system, those funds in the budget. Neither in the 2012 budget nor in the 2013 budget
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24655	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24656	Thank you. Dear Representative Kosor, you have rightly said that women are discriminated against on the labour market and you pessimistically predicted that this will continue to be so. I would say that discrimination in our society, which we often forget, comes from the fact that we are still macho society, the male society, the Tarzan society in which a woman generally has a subordinate position and, above all, in the family that we constantly cite as an example here, but that is one to say the pastoral vision of the family is conservative-traditional where the task of women in most of these males, Tarzan and other types of heroes and heroes of macho croatism that women must work at home from morning till evening, raising children, cooking, jarging, providing sexual services, and that's a great deal of what is meant for you, plus that if she works not bad but if she already works then she will work in much more difficult conditions than men, it's a textile industry etc. We're talking about Sunday and all we're talking about is desire. If you don't work on Sundays, you don't work on men or women. To put it that way, it's not an anti-feminist phenomenon. So you have companies that I know take Mexico which is unquestionably Catholic 99% of the population are Catholic countries, where it's done on Sundays. You have different examples, I'm not talking. But in my opinion, the root of everything is our relationship to a woman is what she suffers, she is a martyr all our mothers have gone through and...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24657	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24658	They carry the whole family on their backs, and sometimes that family gets the hang of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24659	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24660	I agree with you, colleague Jurovic. I mean, I may have looked a little pessimistic about the future, but I'm afraid reality won't deny me but reality will confirm me. In fact, it is about how we are all together and how we think about women in Croatian society and then women in politics and women in the labour market. It has nothing to do with what we're talking about, but you reminded me, for example, I think we all have to start thinking alike when we're talking about it, so things are going to move so women won't be discriminated very often. I remembered a time back in '97, '98 when we were changing the Penal Code and when it was the first time in the Penal Code here I was also a member of the Justice Committee when we entered as a felony rape in marriage. I believe that you remember here are a few of us, and then it was in the Croatian Parliament that faced great resistance. But it is not the most terrible thing it has been voted upon as a criminal offence, but two years ago, I received my colleague Jurjevic's insight into the verdict of a Croatian court, where, on the basis of a complaint from the wife who was exposed to the incredible domestic violence of her wife, who eventually fled with her children, took refuge in a shelter. There's been an indictment. You know how it ended? The verdict in which she wrote because the woman sued among other things for continuing rape in marriage, so according to the existing rules in the verdict, it said in the sentence that the act had not been proven because the woman had no witnesses that she had been continuously raped. Therefore, all three pillars of government must be equally persistent but equally honest and I repeat without a fig in their pocket to try to change their thinking first and then, of course, practice when we talk about the position of women in society and also on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24661	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of registered clubs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament according to this bill. I call on Deputy Minister of Honor Bozidar Stebel to address the Parliament at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and representatives of this House of Commons. First of all, I would like to thank you for your intention that all clubs of this High House support this proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Protection Act. I would also like to thank you for a truly constructive discussion and consideration that, apart from these elements contained as the basics of the Labour Protection Act, we have actually debated both in those consequences and in that further continuation of all the conditions and obligations that go on. From your questions, I could give two groups of answers. The first is the one relating to Article 41.zacon, the article excludes part of persons who have certain difficulties or who are with disabilities and limited working capacity. It is far wider, more precise and better resolved on the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Why did we keep that law the same way as the Law of Birth and Birth Rights? Because, in fact, through them, it's all regulated and changed. And if we did in this law of ours special precision then every change in it should actually change this law, and I don't know if it was here or soon there will be any changes on this birthright and parental rights law, and that will certainly make it even better. The second part relating to the application of that law. Its purpose and even more of the new law we have announced is that protection at work does not cost but one part of the production process, and thus experience it and its primary goal is to protect workers in the workplace. Also, these laws and this law have been passed for all types of ownership, so the OPGs and crafts and businesses and companies and companies, and in this way includes and does not make a difference between workers, employees or as we wish to call the country, in industry, in trade, etc. So he's all about everything. What we also want, and that is that this part of the control because no law, no matter how good it is if there is no security control, can actually be weak or in no way effective. We want more preventions to be carried out in the inspections in the future, that one inspector monitors a particular company, a particular legal person over a certain period of time, and thus actually cares and watches over protected and protected workers. Here's to not being too long, thank you again. All of what we heard today will be respected and incorporated into the new Labour Protection Act that we announced for the second half of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24663	Thank you, too. A replica of the respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic, has been reported to your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24664	So we support this improvement of the Labour Protection Act, but here from there 9.30 so now to 11.52 give at this point we have 346 671 unemployed. Of these, 180,000 women, 70,000 young people, up to 24 years, and 37,500 young people with no work experience. And now, as we talked about this 3.4 hours, that number probably changed and probably another number of unemployed increased by 200 to 300. I call on and support these amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act but let us focus on how to reduce this truly huge number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia because this is a question of all issues. Maybe at this point in time this replica is still lost 2.3 or 10 jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24665	Thank you very much. Replica reply, dear Deputy Minister Bozidar Stubelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24666	Unfortunately, this is a fact, but it's also a fact that probably this is the time we've spent here, and there's been a few injuries at work. Right now and through this law, we're worried about getting hurt as little as possible, about making these injuries as easy as possible and not having so many deaths. Here's when we were preparing this law we had three deaths on construction sites. The aim of this law is to reduce it and surely this problem is great, but it is solved through other regulations, other laws, other efforts, and here we are solely concerned about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24667	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. That's when the debate on the text of the law ended. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending the Labour Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 209. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Honorable God of Stybel Deputy Minister of Labour and the Pension System to declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24669	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. ... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Act on protection in working quality, better and more precise determines the Law on Professional Disability and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. So in this... unnecessary and we said yesterday that this special law is better quality and better followed by this area of disabled people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24670	Thank you, too. The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24671	... shows that in the new law or consolidated text we have to determine whether or not this... [[Speech is not enabled.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24672	Thank you very much. We believe the amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 114 votes in favour of and 1 law against the Law on Amendments to the Law on protection of work in the text, as proposed by the Proposer. Now we move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the law on research, arrangement and maintenance of military cemetery, cemetery of victims of World War II and postwar period, second reading, PZ No. 148 The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. These are Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the bill was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received reports from these working bodies from the Board of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Secretary of Defense Wessna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24674	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the Post-war Period, which wants to systematically regulate the treatment of post-mortem remains and cemetery victims of World War II and the post-war period in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with international humanitarian law and principles and the rights to treat the dead provided for in the provisions of the Geneva Conventions, additional protocols on the protection of victims of war, the Council of Europe Resolution on the condemnation of Communism and Communist Crimes and the European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism. Compared to the text of the bill in the first reading, the proposal was accepted to submit a report on the work of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of World War II and the cemetery of the post-war period other than the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Assembly. That proposal has been considered and has been decided to be accepted as a whole primarily in order to achieve greater transparency in the approximation of public work and to increase accountability. The reason for accepting is driven by the opinion that trust is proportionate to transparency which is the fundamental principle of good governance. Several remarks on the proposal for a law on research, arrangement and maintenance of military cemetery, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the post-war period referred to the fiscal burden of local self-government units which are presumed not to have sufficient funds for the permanent maintenance of cemeteries, the environment of the cemetery and access roads. However, an analysis of the situation has shown that a large number of local self-government units and the City of Zagreb have been carrying out the cost of maintaining the cemetery from the section of this law for a long time. The cost of maintenance of the cemetery will be organised in a way that will require minimum maintenance funds. In the event that units of local self-government do not carry out a warrant based on obligations under the law and have a blocked account of maintenance works will be organised by the Defence Ministry for a period of time until the account is blocked. In this respect, the proposal has been partially accepted. It should be pointed out here that units of local self-government bear exclusively maintenance costs, and the cost of setting up a cemetery is borne by the Ministry of Defence. In order to clarify the terms of the second world war victim in Article 2 paragraph 1 of the 1st and 5th indent, the legislator added the text given in the text of the second world war victim to the text of the second world war victim to the second world war or the death of war, and the civilian victims of political and genocide terror in the period from 6 April 1941 to 9 April 1945, and also the graves of the victims of war were the graves and graves of the victims of the Second World War or of the dead due to war, and political and genocide terror in the period from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945 in the territory of Croatia. Namely, the civilian victims of political and genocide were not explicitly mentioned anywhere, while at the same time pointing out that the alleged victims of the communist regime were creating an impression of the unfair treatment of victims of political and genocide during the NDH. We consider the proposed additions justified in order for the law to truly fulfill its intention to treat all victims of World War II and the postwar period, including victims of political and genocide. With regard to the legal basis for the adoption of the draft final draft law, research, regulation and maintenance of military cemetery, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the post-war period, it should be pointed out that, already in the article of the first law, the Council of Europe's resolution on the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist order has been cited as a legal basis. With regard to the observations on the basis of the transfer of the office's competence to the Ministry of Defence, which withdraws the opinion that this will allow for the impact of the policy on work, it is clear that the independent existence of the office in a organisational sense does not mean insurance from the influence of the policy. We believe that trusting in the exercise of this law to the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for defenders is the most rational solution from the aspects of work processes, human and financial resources. Since 2003, the Office for Detained and Missing, which is a unit of the Ministry of Defence and so far has been entrusted with the tasks of exhumation and disposal of posthumation victims of World War II and postwar period, which this administration has successfully carried out not only in the case of Macelean victims, but also in the case of exhumation of posthumation victims in Udbin, at the site of the construction of the church of Croatian martyrs, the takeover of the death remains of 16 Croatian soldiers from the Italian Republic in 2007 found in Russia in 1992 and even in a series of exhumations and disposal of the remains of the post-mortem remains. The general objective of the law is to establish a system to preserve the memory of all victims killed in World War II and postwar period regardless of religion, nation and political commitment. This goal will be achieved through decent care and the finding of postmortem remains, marking the site of the victims of World War II and the postwar period and care for the maintenance of military cemetery. The final draft of the law provides for instruments that guarantee the legitimate and transparent work of achieving the objective of the law, that at last all victims of World War II and the post-war period of either military or civilian, regardless of religion, nationality and political commitment, have the right to an orderly and marked grave with an inscription that will not encourage hatred and revenge and the right to pitet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24675	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24676	Thank you very much. Dear President, I would not agree with your opening statement, because in some way in the first reading, we had a story that this law was in some way substituting a law that was in force until then, which reads in the name of the Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. You've been talking about the graves of World War II only for the most part. So the very words say in the first law we had a finding you'll investigate. In the first we have a marking, and you will edit. And third, we have both maintenance and each other, but it exclusively refers to the cemetery of World War II after your presentation. And I think that's what I'm going to conclude, though this is how you said in your cause that you should contribute to this law, that this goal is exclusively this law that you're proposing, that you're looking for something, and you don't find anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24677	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed deputy minister. Here you go, Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24678	So, I don't agree with the objection of an esteemed representative that we'll be investigating only the victims of World War II. The law explicitly states that we will also investigate the victims of the postwar period. So we're not going to be dealing with a criminal procedure. That's what we know who's in charge of research in that sense. So, the aim of the law is said and we will explore both the victims of World War II and the postwar period both victims of the communist crime and victims of genocide and political terror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24679	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. The next is a replica of Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24680	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister. So the main problem here is that at the moment our economy falls, we put one proposal on the agenda that separates Croatia again, and we had this issue resolved by consensus. So, SDP representatives of course HDZ, but all clubs have settled this issue, have finally managed to overcome these differences that bring us back to some historic divisions. And instead of going again if there's something that needs to be improved that way here, obviously the consensus doesn't want to be achieved anymore. And one office established by that law that was passed by consensus now wants to be put under the auspices of the ministry, in other words under the hat of politics. And that's the problem. In all countries, fasting communist countries, Central European countries, in Germany they were independent offices. Some are under the authority of politics. If something had to change in the current arrangement, it was precisely what might have been needed to change the administration of this office, because of course there were politicians in it. And that's where we'll agree, that's where it's supposed to be done. But then we solve that part and leave the office's independence to really according to scientific criteria not according to the daily-political or God forbid with the intention of cover-up going to determine this area. There is a key problem, and it seems that we are not going to come to a good solution today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24681	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the board of working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? Yeah. War veterans' committee, respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24682	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian War Veterans Committee at its 8th session held on 4 December 2012 discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Research, Regulation, the maintenance of military cemeterys, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the postwar period submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 29 November 2012. The Committee held the hearing as the home working body in accordance with Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The improvement in the situation in the area of post-mortem remains and graves of the victims of World War II and the post-war period to be seen in the marking of the resting place at the permanent maintenance of the victims' cemetery, i.e. the establishment of an effective memorial system for all victims in World War II and the post-war period is the primary objective of this law. The legal gap is being filled because no applicable law provides for the conduct and care of victims of World War II. The funds necessary for the implementation of the law will be provided in the item provided for in the financing of the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, worth 2.4 million kuna. The differences between the final bill and the bill's proposal are seen in clearer and more precise definitions of the second world war victim's concept. The submission of a report on the work of the Committee for the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, Cemetery of Victims of World War II and Cemetery of the post-war period other than the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, as well as a partial reduction in the cost of maintaining a cemetery for local self-government units in case their account was blocked during the period of the blockade. The members of the committee held the following opinions in the debate, expressed dissatisfaction with the objections and proposals presented in the first reading, because they accepted remarks of a technical nature, not essential, which refers in particular to the abolition and accession of the Office for the find, maintenance and marking of the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, which will lead to obstruction in the work, i.e. the reduction of the intensity of research into the graves of victims of communist crimes. If the Office had remained independent, it would have been able to seek the basis of developed funding programmes from European funds because the funds provided for in the budget are insufficient for their quality and efficient work. A part-round office has been fully preserved and the transfer of it to the Ministry of Defence will speed up the process of investigating the graves of the victims of World War II and the post-war period. The financial burden of local self-government units related to the permanent maintenance of the cemetery is too high knowing that this law imposes yet another obligation on them, and without prior debate or their consent. After the debate, the committee proposed the adoption of this law by a majority of votes, with 7 votes in favour, 4 votes against the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24683	Thank you, too, for your report. Other presidents? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the club of HSU and the esteemed representative Željko Shemper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24684	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law, in accordance with international humanitarian law, regulates the questions of research, order and decent maintenance of the graves of all victims and keeping records of individual and mass graves, the transfer and decent disposal of the remains of all victims of World War II and the postwar action, the permanent maintenance of military cemetery and the cemetery of civilian war victims, in accordance with international humanitarian law. Although dealing with post-mortem remains of the victims of World War II and post-war action in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated by two laws assessing the Ministry of Defense as a pronoun that no law provides for the treatment of newly-discovered military graves of victims of World War II, the permanent maintenance of World War II victims' war in both the Republic and abroad, and the implementation of interstate agreements on the protection of military cemeteries. The general objective of the law is to establish a system to preserve the memory of all the victims in World War II and the postwar period. In order to achieve this objective, the Ministry of Defence estimates that trusting the law enforcement powers in its composition is the most rational solution both in terms of work processes and human resources and in part of transparent funding. It is certain that the transfer of competence for the permanent maintenance of the 2nd World War Cemetery and postwar action on local self-government units will cause a lot of objections in view of the problems in local budgets. The ministry eases such criticism that implementing regulations will affect these costs as low as possible and that the maintenance of the cemetery is appropriate. Comments on insufficient financial resources for the implementation of the 2.4 million law by the Ministry intends to address the rationalisation of the structure, the reduction of technical costs and the suspension of compensations to members of the Governing Council. So far, as an institution, there has been a brief office for finding, marking and maintaining the graves of 2nd World War communist victims, and this bill passes to the Ministry of Defense and only loses that name. As the clarifications are fully explained, the work of the former office will be preserved, and the research will further improve rationalise the structure and reduce costs and increase resources for more effective problem research. Therefore, the aim of this legislative proposal is not to abolish the existing office but to improve the preservation of the mention of all victims of World War II and the postwar period. The effectiveness of these changes is also expected for the reason that according to the applicable 2011 law, field research operations of exhumation, processing and transport of post-mortem remains were carried out by the Department of Detained and Missing at the Ministry of Defence. So far, the office has only pooled documentation and data on possible locations of mass and individual tombs. For me personally, there are some other far more difficult and important issues. You still don't know the fate of a 1761 missing person in the Homeland War, even though it's been 20 years. Will they ever know how and where their remains ended? An even bigger riddle and a problem for the dead and missing 65 or 67 years ago in World War II. Every victim is a great pain for every family but it's even harder when the family doesn't know how they are and where their favorite ended up when there's no place for them to light a candle. Therefore, it is not important whether an institution will be called an office or administration, whether there will be enough funds in the local budget to maintain a cemetery. All of this can be easily solved by the great problem of the dead and the missing. The most important thing is whether the missing number will shrink, whether the family will know the real truth. The HSU Club will support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24685	Thank you, too. The next is SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Damir Rimac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24686	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Deputy Minister. So before us is the Final Proposals of the Law on Research, Regulation, the maintenance of the military cemetery of victims of World War II and the post-war period that was adopted in this High House on 12 June 2012. After being discussed at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and at meetings of all interested working bodies, so is the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. All opinions and proposals by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been carefully considered. Some have been accepted in part, some completely, and some of course are not accepted. The proposal of fellow Parliamentarian Zoran Vinkovic, who is now unfortunately not present in the assembly, was accepted that the report on the work of the Committee for Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries and Cemeteries of Victims of World War II and the cemetery of the post-war period other than the Government of the Republic of Croatia was submitted to the House of Representatives or the Croatian Parliament. That proposal has been considered and has been decided to be accepted in full primarily in order to achieve greater transparency in the approximation of public work and to increase accountability. The reason for accepting is also guided by the opinion that trust is proportionate to transparency which is a fundamental principle of good governance but also the government has accepted good and quality suggestions on the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Several objections to the bill referred to the fiscal burden of units of local self-government that were assumed to be available in the first reading that they would not have sufficient financial resources to maintain the cemetery and the environment of the cemetery and access routes. The government has made an analysis of the situation and the analysis has shown that units of local self-government are a large number, and thus the city of Zagreb has long borne the cost of maintaining the cemetery from the section of this law. The cost of maintenance of the cemetery will be organised in a way that will require the minimum funding of units of local self-government and I also spoke of it in my first reading that the financial burden of units of local self-government will be minimal and that financial decentralisation will be implemented. What is important to stress is that if units of local self-government do not execute a warrant based on obligations under the law and have a blocked maintenance account, the ministry shall organise for a period of time while the unit account of local self-government is unblocked. It should be noted that local self-government units bear exclusively maintenance costs, and the cost of setting up a cemetery is borne by the Ministry of Defence. The legislator of the law in order to clarify the expression of the victim of World War II in Article 2 of Article 1(1) and indent 5 has complemented the text of the stated term of the second world war victim's law are victims of World War II or died as a result of the war and of the civilian victim of political and genocide terror in the period of time since 6 April '41. By the 9th of May of '45 and also in the 5th Aline of the cemetery of war victims are graves and graves of the victims of the 2nd World War or of the dead due to war and political and genocide terror during the time period of 6 April '41. until 9 May '45 in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The general objective of the law is to establish a system to preserve the memory of all victims in World War II and generally post-war period. This stated objective stems and stems from the Geneva Convention of '49. in the year, the additional protocols of '77, but also the previous two laws, the Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of Cemeteries and Graves of '92, as well as the Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of the Graves of Communist Crime Victims after the Second World War of 2011, but what is very important for stressing the legal basis lies also on Council Resolution 1481 of 2006 and 2009 condemning all totalitarian and communist regimes. So despite the fact that dealing with the remains of the victims of World War II and the postwar period in the Republic of Croatia has so far been governed by the '92 law. and the 2011 law, the current state of affairs in the area of the post-war remains and the cemetery of the victims of World War II in the Republic of Croatia does not satisfy the necessary level of effort for victims of World War II and victims of all post-war events to be properly marked by eternal resting places and to ensure the permanent maintenance of the cemetery of the victims of World War II. Let me just briefly remind in my debate of the presentation of Assistant Minister Grujic, who noted that very recently in the excavations and construction works that took place in Karlovac that the remains of the Second World War were found and that there was actually no superior institution or legal foothold to what to do with these remains. So in the current legislative and legal framework, there is a legal vacuum according to which, in fact, those victims from Karlovac found no one, no one was in charge of them and their care. By new law, this legal void or so on. legal vacuum amortises and neutralises, i.e. corrects. And what is very important to stress is that the old law, i.e. still existing law of 2011 is not significantly amended or modified in any article. The supplement applies exclusively to the coverage of the victims of World War II, which neither by law of '92 nor by law of 2011 were recorded or covered. And in the first reading where I defended the bill on behalf of the club, I will also point out in the second reading that the victim is a victim, that crime is a crime no matter who filed it, or who committed it, that when interpreting the law, we should stay away from political folklore and that the law is actually a civilizational step towards the Republic of Croatia in this area, but also an important approach, or a show of goodwill to respect European values. I will remind myself in my statement that the basic issue regulated by the law of research, regulation and a worthy permanent maintenance of the graves of the victims of the post-war period and keeping records of individual and mass graves of the victims of the post-war period and the number of post-war remains identified therein, recalling again and refering as a recent case in the area of Karlovac. The transfer and decent disposal of the remains of the victims of World War II and the postwar period when it is in the public interest or if the remains were found during infrastructure, urban or other works and their mandatory recording and the permanent maintenance of military cemetery and the cemetery of civilian victims of war and postwar periods. This law is also very important because the Republic of Croatia is bound to act and concluded interstate agreements on the arrangement of military cemetery between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Slovenia, and the emphasis should certainly be placed on the fact that there is a belief in the Republic of Croatia that soldiers and civilians who have lost their lives due to various military or other actions in the Second World War and the postwar period have the right to a decent resting place and to give their piety to all victims. It is said that repeating the mother of knowledge or repetitive the sixth mother studiorum, so this law erases the legal void that existed in previous laws of '92. and in 2011 because the remains of World War II were not covered, which is, in fact, the intensity and guidance of the European Union. To emphasize it, and I don't think it should be doubtful to anyone in this House that, apart from the inscription on the arranged cemetery of post-war victims, it should and may be possible to place a religious mark in agreement with local religious institutions and to allow systematic regulation and monitoring of post-war remains. So from all that I have stated in this part of the SDP Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament, this final bill will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24687	Thank you. The first line has Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24688	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of Romec you said would do fiscal decentralisation on the needs of local self-government units. We haven't seen it anywhere in the law, it's nowhere, it's not planned in the budgets that have already been passed in units of local self-government, in municipalities, cities and counties. There is no such thing in this legal framework except for those funds intended for the office, which are transferred both to the Ministry and to the account. There are no political folklores, the office has been doing its job in accordance with the possibilities and capacity of financial ones. He didn't have enough space to do whatever he found, and the five localities that were in charge were that the law could regulate both his jurisdiction and all the important items you were talking about could have been defined by law, so the office would enforce them. These are the things that should have been arranged so that the political folklore was involved. We will see from the following report, given that the financial resources are not secured in the following year, the local units will not be able to do anything on that plan, nor will they implement that law unless they rebalance the budget. I think calling for a political folklore right now as in 2000, when Racan's government abolished the commission, nothing was done about it. There is a concern that the same thing could happen again, that the longer time of research, marking, and permanent maintenance of such sites of suffering may be delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24689	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24690	Dear fellow Djakic, we had a very short discussion on the Committee on War Veterans. So every single person's democratic right to understand something or not to understand it. So we said that units of local self-government are normally now in the making of their own local budgets. When this law enters into force they will rebalance the budget and it is very simple. On the other hand, you said in your presentation that there was a concern that the office, or commission, would slow down its activities or stop working. So, I remind you, as a member of the Governing Council of that office, we have faced countless technical difficulties in organising the machinery that the office itself did not have and the mechanism was given by the Ministry of Defence. So communication between the current office and the D.A. was good, but some things couldn't be resolved quickly. So, in your statement that it will be a problem that the office, or commission, will pass under the Ministry of Defence's authority does not stand because I personally hold that office, or that commission, will then have more efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24691	Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24692	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Roman, you failed to actually explain when the SDP changed its mind. Because if you voted in favour of an independent office, because it is okay with European practice, because it has been done so everywhere in the post-communist countries that are now EU members, because it has also been done in Germany. Here you can ask us now in a few days will come to visit and the president of Germany who was headed by just such an independent Office for the Research of Communist Crimes. If you agreed then that this is the way to go, why are you shutting down that office now? Because you're shutting him down. It's not that the office goes under any authority, but the office is being abolished and only becomes a department or something in the ministry. So, still under the hat of politics which is of course, I think the minister is always a political person as a member of the government and he controls the work of his entire ministry. And that's exactly what you want to avoid in Europe, that politics doesn't control this investigation of communist crimes. Therefore, you have mistakenly mentioned that this is a harmonisation or that it is in line with European standards. On the contrary. It can only be concluded that you do not want to investigate communist crimes. And explain to me when you changed your mind, because you voted together with HDZ for an independent office, and now you're removing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24693	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24694	So, fellow Stier, with regard to the observation that, on the basis of the transfer of the office's competence to the Ministry of Defence, which draws some opinion that this would enable the policy to influence the work of that office if I understood correctly. I have to defuse you with one rhetorical question. Do you think the office was independent of the head of a colleague, Andrija Hebrang or Stjepan Adanic, who are apparently political representatives in the office? I went into that office not because someone suggested me, but because I wanted to go in because I wanted to know how the office works. About your response to how the SDP changed its mind. So the SDP hasn't changed its mind. It was a civilizational fluid, or civilizational decision to establish such an office. That office still exists, only it won't have the name of the office, it'll have the commission. This commission will still be able to do what it was intended to do. Show me in the law any provision where that office is abolished and where the commission will not have the authority to investigate communist crimes that belonged to the office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24695	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24696	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is evident that a colleague of Rome was late to lift a replicated tile. That's what everyone saw, and the secretary of the plenary session saw it, and you gave him your word. So Article 211 was injured, and I would ask you that such things don't happen anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24697	Let me see from this place better than you that last minute he checked in. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24698	Here's a dear fellow Roman, about a dozen or twelve years ago, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia was bringing its new programme and statutes. Among other things, a provision concerning the condemnation of communist crimes was entered. And at that moment I was pleased to have contributed to such a provision entering the Statute of the Social Democratic Party. However, the suspension, therefore, is the abolition of the office and the accession of the Ministry of Defence. And there's a question at all why the Ministry of Defense is talking about a possible intention to end the investigation of these communist crimes right now. On the other hand, the fact is, and here today the government has announced almost 9 billion new investments in the Republic of Croatia as one new, I don't know probably double tsunamis in the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about investments, and I don't see why, the fact is that many units of local self-government are now making a budget, that they can bring a budget rebalance, but I don't see that one of these laws is a whole obligation, even though these aren't purely municipal activities that we understand right now because the pure communal activity is the maintenance of a cemetery, these are not just cemeteries, but at the end of the memorial, the whole burden of funding is transferred to local self-government. And let me remind you that many units of local self-government thanks to so-called. fiscal decentralisation has a budget reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24699	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24700	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, I would first of all like to thank you for reminding this House of strong provisions, the SDP programming provisions of the previous period in which all the crimes of the communist period have been convicted. Therefore, I would like to highlight Article 1 of the Law on the legal basis of the draft draft law, as the legal basis, states the Council of Europe Resolution on the condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist order. So, that law reads the resolution again. I repeat, the law does not derivate in any way the Resolution of European Parliaments of 2 April 2009 on European conscience and totalitarianism as well as the Declaration of the Conviction of Communist Crimes committed during the totalitarian communist regimes. And regarding your comment that the financial burdens of local self-government units will be great, I would like to remind you of the Law on Cemeteries by which units of local self-government are obliged to maintain cemeteries. So, if that's the problem right now, am I asking whether the Cemetery Act is being implemented and whether we stick to it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24701	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24702	Thank you very much. In your presentation on behalf of the club, you have listed conventions and Resolution 1481, which in some way supports such a bill. However, you did not specify the EU Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2009 which states that political bodies have a monopoly on the interpretation of history and such bodies cannot be objective. The current transfer of an independent office to a political body, which is the Ministry of Defence, violates that very provision. So it's against that resolution, and you didn't say that. The same resolution states that decisions on investigating the crimes of communism must not be made by revote in parliament. We are the last law to be established by an independent office with a consensus of both HDZ and SDP. In this law we will have a revote and that is the opposite of that very resolution. That's why this law is not acceptable. And the fact that this body will be independent whether it was a department, administration or something in the political body, I think it's clear to every citizen that there's nothing out of it. And that's why I've already said today that this law is going to be the law that we're going to ask for, and we're not going to find anything, nothing at all. Because it also showed experience between 2000 and 2003. We did have certain activities in this short period of office, but the bodies were exhumed, and the fundamental thing that I was saying in the opening part is that you are now extending the jurisdiction of the law to war victims, and this law refers to the peace period on the victims after the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24703	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24704	Dear counterpart Boris, this is not a vote on the condemnation of totalitarian and communist regimes, I think we have all unanimously condemned it. Here is a colleague, Vinkovic, mentioned a SDP programme that condemns this form of totalitarian regime. This will be obvious from your discussions voting on technical details whether the name is office or commission. Nothing else. And for your information on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 900 locations have been detected or detected. So this commission or office will have something to do in the next 10, 15 or 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24705	It is next to the club of Croatian Labour Labour Laburist-Stranke and colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24706	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Well, either the office or any commission, I'm afraid politics won't get out of it, we can call it whatever we want, we're aware of that, that's for sure. What bothers me more in this story is whether it means how the War Veterans Committee, or what the Committee concludes, is that because of this let's say a re-organisation, the European Funds could simply remain inaccessible because they are intended exclusively for non-profit organisations. Well, that means that in these times when the crisis is for all of us, we're practically doing ourselves for something to prove that we're going to do now, because this is nothing more than we're going to do differently than it's ever been. And that's what's absurd. Let's do something different than we've done before, even if it's bad. At least we were aware that it was bad, but let's do a little bit differently so, among other things, stay without those funds which is really absurd in these times. Personally, I believe all my colleagues at the Labour Club are absolutely whatever they're going to call it one way or another, but it's a condition if there's a condition to achieve some funding from European funds then let's respect what it is. The financial burden of local self-government units has already been mentioned here. We can close our eyes to that, but the fact is that there's going to be an extra financial burden and we can say that it's minimal and I don't know how to arrange a single-mark approach but it's minimal when the community is blocked and it can't be much. Not much, but impossible. If you don't have something, you don't, then that's the way it is. I would say a little if he had already mentioned an illogicality in the law itself in Article 35(2). Which says "if the units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb do not execute the order then the works will be organised by the Ministry of Finance", and paragraph 3 says "the provision of paragraph 2 will not apply in case the local units are blocked or during the period of the blockade". I think I understand her intention, but it's awkwardly arranged because it turns out that the ministry won't organise, not that it won't finance, but it won't organise as long as the account is blocked. I think in this case we should adjust it a little bit. I believe I understood the intention, but if we're reading this strictly, I'm afraid it's going to turn out to be something else. That's so short, I don't want to get involved unfortunately in the story of whether this is a retro, I think all the victims are victims like one of the predecessors said. After all, we mark it for the living and for our future and for the victims, unfortunately, it doesn't matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24707	Thank you. Replica Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24708	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, I would just like to agree with your finding that this time, too, must express the piety to the victims. And that our discussions should be right in that tone. When this independent office came by researching these victims, for example. in Gracani, 30 young people aged 15 to 18, I think that Croatia has failed to express the pitetism of those victims that should not have been known since '45, so here it is until 2012 because it was banned. And that's precisely why it's not what some institutions are going to call it, I think it can also be called an office, an agency, a commission, but it's about being independent of politics. Here's the key. Could the current solution have improved? It could have been, but in the direction of further depoliticalization of it. So if we have a way in which we should solve the current solution maybe bring a ban on politicians or former politicians to be in the administrative bodies, and that's where I think we'd all agree, and not put this under a policy cap right now, and even institutionally abolish the budget item for that independent body and put it under the control of one minister or assistant minister, we're not going to now about all the opportunities why it is and who these people are. But the fact that these officials are politically appointed. So in this direction we had to improve the current system. It doesn't matter what that body is called, it matters if it's independent. And this body with that amount of independence that had something to do with it. We have missed should today express the pitetism to these victims and thus be guided in the future by consensus to advance the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24709	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24710	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I couldn't agree more with you. When I said it didn't matter what his name was, I thought purely rhetorically it wasn't the name that was set aside from politics. Unfortunately, we have to be aware that sports are not going today, culture is not going, nothing goes without political interference. What you said at the beginning of all the victims should give away the pie, and I agree with that. And one of the greatest forms of honoring all victims would be to remove politics from it, to keep politics in the sense of financial custody to provide them with material conditions for work but to move away from all other influences. And then that would be really something that's honest, honest. This way, at least it can be in the best of intentions, but it remains under a slight doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24711	Damir Rimac replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24712	Dear counterpart Novak, therefore, in replication, I must stress that I am very much in favour of your presentation, but a small correction related to the application of a public institution or office to EU funds. So I don't know if you know there's three people employed in the office. How can three people in the day-to-day office business and work tasks, both from the directors of that office and from the board of directors, work on a daily basis and prepare technical details for applying for any project or any further act towards the EU? It's just impossible. So I repeat, the office has three employees. I must point out that, and I also said on the Committee on War Veterans that there was an office plan for the establishment of county offices along the county borders of the Republic of Croatia. However, given the sequence of developments in the adoption of a new law and the foreseeable abolition or renaming of the commission offices, we have even been working and considering some sort of depreciation plan or action plan to do what, and the fact is that the conclusion went in this direction to try to form NGOs because in any case, a public institution that collects documentation that wants to apply the project to the European Union offices will be harder to obtain those funds than when civil sector, or civil society. So I see from everything that I am afraid of the vast majority of MPs in this House of Commons have never worked or participated in applications, the vast majority, not all, in applying projects to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24713	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24714	Thank you very much. My colleague, there's something I don't understand from your debate. You are now trying to say that we are going to put it under the government office, the government office, and now we have the opportunity and we have all the resources to do it, the only problem now is that the European Union will not accept it because it is no longer a non-profit organisation outside the government. Or-or, but let's make it possible to give some other resources, let's make it possible with something else but if we have some opportunities to get some funding from European funds. ... Okay, here's my colleague. He gave an answer for me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can even agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24715	And Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24716	Dear colleague, I will not enter the European funds now and which regions in Croatia or the county have withdrawn and applied the most funds from these European funds, but I would like to say that every victim, that the victim is a victim, deserves to drink. But this law is not about the victims themselves, it's about how to investigate, above all, communist crimes, how to mark these traits. Whether it will be a mention of a mark, whether it will be arranged a cemetery or not. So I'm just going to mention an example of the naked island, so this whole law is getting the state out of funding, it's completely out of line. The naked island is a large complex that can even have tourist potential where probably those who went to school in Kumrovec will hold certain lectures, dress in those uniforms with a five-pointer etc. Because even after that five-pointer except for the anti-fascism, there were communist crimes going on. He's a little late for the SDP program, but on the side now. So now I'm asking how then the local self-government unit, which is not a communal activity, will finance this whole project. Whether it is applied to European funds or not. However, the abolition of this office, putting out of the budget and against the opinion of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, which unanimously concluded. So also members of the position and opposition that the state is now providing funds in the budget and for investigating communist crimes, but also for marking. So obviously there is a certain disproportionateity in the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government and those who speak on behalf of the club especially now of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24717	Thank you. Replica response, Mladen Novak Here you go, colleague Novak. [[Intruder Vinkovic: So we can't transfer everything to local self-government.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24718	Thank you very much. This second part of your replica we actually agreed because that's what I said from the pay phone, so there's no difference in opinions. As for the first part, you mentioned that we don't talk about victims, I agree we don't talk about victims, but more than that, I don't want to get involved in discussions with those victims, and they, us and them, just for that reason, drinking to all the victims, I don't just want to get into such discussions. As far as funding is concerned, that's absolutely what I said at the end of the day from the pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24719	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24720	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister. The HDZ Club will not support the Final Proposal for a Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the postwar period for the same reasons that we presented during the first reading. None of the remarks made by HDZ and HDZ representatives in the final proposal have been respected. The existing Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after the Second World War, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament, is a good law that regulates this issue well and does not really need to be re-examined and determined by the location of victims of communist crime and worthy of marking and maintaining such graves and cemeteries by respecting the fact that each victim deserves a decent burial and pitet. If there is a true will to brighten up and solve this problem without direct political interference, without political pressures that can only lead to new divisions, useless debates, then this job can only be done by an independent body, which is through the Office for the Finding and Marking of the Graves of the Victims of the Communist regime existing law and made it possible. So, the office as the legal person that the Government and the Parliament have control over because they name the administrative council is a guarantee of autonomy and independence in the conduct of all actions to enlighten the truth and a worthy marking of the place of mass liquidation of victims of the communist regime. Therefore, it is entirely justified that by shutting down the office, which provides for the bill, this job essentially wants to slow down, push on the sideline track, and in fact stop as it did in 2002 by the Decision of the Racan Government on the abolition of the Commission on War and War Victims. From then until the office was founded, no cemetery was discovered, no shovels were unearthed, and in fact, for almost ten years, nothing seemed to find out the truth. The office that began to function well, which was formed, which you, Madam Deputys, said worked well and launched a whole series of actions to determine the truth of the shut-offs, and you push his affairs into the Ministry of Defence, so into the government's body, the political body, into executive power, which is completely contrary to the EU resolution. So the plan is perfectly clear and the only possible conclusion is made. Cancel the office and stop further investigation of communist crimes. If in a few years, the office of living witnesses is re-established, there will be no more. I don't particularly want to repeat what you haven't been able to convince me that the D.A. with this problem has a touch point. It is responsible for the Homeland War and victims of the Homeland War, not for the wars and victims of the communist regime. That since the Homeland War, we have an unsolved almost a thousand people who are being held captive and missing, and that this law and this job will slow down further, because the same body will also be responsible for World War II, pores and Homeland War. Who's in the interest of who? I don't want to talk and repeat much, because the other side doesn't want to listen and respect the arguments that this law gives up the possibility of funding research and exhumation from EU funds that the office could and had had such a plan, and the ministry can't, and that the 2.3 million kuna foreseen in the budget for next year is not enough and that the work with such amounts will not be completed in the next 50 years. Because of all this, because of the lack of real intention to find out the truth and because of the real intention to slow this job down, and then to stop the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24721	Thank you. We have four replicas. He is the first colleague, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24722	Dear Vice President, Mr. Ivić. Well, I'm gonna fill you in on the part where you said that this Department of Defense today didn't convince the Ministry why it was there. Today, according to the new law, the defence ministry is the same as it ended in the Ministry of Science in 2002. After that, nothing happened. However, something else about the opportunities we are missing between the position that this is better in the Ministry of Defence, means in the political body and office as an independent body. The fact that this number of hidden cemeteries Mr. Rimac spoke of almost 900, perhaps even more, is now expanding to World War II. The question is how much of it will be, that it will also need the help of civilian associations. The Ministry can't establish a civilian association. The independent office could have found volunteers and civil society. We heard that the office had been made available 1.8 million kuna a year by the number of these sites. It would take a lot more. However, the office could seek EU funds and funds as an independent body. The ministry as a political body can't ask for that purpose. The office also had plans to establish a foundation for families killed and collect donations the ministry cannot do. And lastly, the big difference is that the office can co-operate with experts from other countries where some contacts have already been made. However, the ministry cannot because it is contrary to European initiatives and that is the fundamental reason and reason why we believe that this is a bad solution against which HDZ will certainly be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24723	The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24724	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague, Boric, with everything you've said. These are really the real reasons why our club won't support this bill either. Removing the office is the key thing. We had, therefore, an office as a legal person, as an independent body over which the Croatian Parliament and the Government had oversight because they appointed a council whose exclusive job was to be dealt with and dealt with in this short time with crimes after World War II. Now that office is being pushed into the Croatian Defence Department. He's gone. The commission and the office aren't the same. The office also has a legal personality. The commission, of course, doesn't have it and powers are completely different. And it really raises the question of whether what happened in 2002 was going to happen when the commission was abolished and the job was transferred to the Ministry of Science. What does the Ministry of Science have to do with the victims of pornography and the communist regime? And it's clear that in 10 years, of course nothing happened like I said no shovels were unearthed, no cemetery was found, and apparently it was the goal then to abolish the commission as it is now obviously the goal of abolishing the office that these crimes are essentially not being investigated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24725	God of Calmeta, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24726	That my colleague Ivić agrees with you and the fact is that this law should aim at all victims of totalitarian regimes having one drink and having one eternal resting place. And in that sense, we must have one law that will indeed solve it. However, I really don't think this law solves it and reads something else through this law, which is that there is really no will to resolve this problem permanently and once and for all. Why? Well, for two reasons. You were saying that the office would no longer exist but that it would be within the Department of Defense. I agree with you that this Department of Prisoners and Missing has nothing to do with this problem and it shouldn't be, but there's no money. Neither the ministry has the money for it nor the local self-government units have the money and did not anticipate it, provided the money to maintain such cemeteries. Because it's not small money. Look at the naked island, for example. The Golo island needs a lot of money first to determine how many victims of the communist regime died there, why there is no funds in the budget, and then when there is a need to worry about it tomorrow I don't know the Lopar Municipality that doesn't have that money, so there's simply no financial means to solve this law and the kind of problem that could have been solved. And that's why I really think this law in this way won't solve that problem, and it would be good if she got rid of it once and for all, and then we left history behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24727	Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Kalmeta with you, anyway, and I said that the existing law is good, that he makes no distinction between the victims, that it is on the trail that no new ideological and any other division in the Croatian people is being caused, which I am sure will not happen. That story should bring an end to people I'd say from the profession and finally stop dealing with things from the nearer and further past to turn to the future. A special part of the story is what you pointed out yourself, pushing these jobs into the Department of Defense. The defense ministry really has nothing to do with what happened in communism, which happened in the '45s. Until the '90s. The Ministry of Defense is responsible for the Homeland War and victims of the Homeland War. The fact is that there is a Department of Detained and Missing, which is the primary objective of finding a place of mass graves from the Homeland War, exhumation, identification, etc., and at this point a little less than 1000 people are still on the list of missing persons from the Homeland War, and that if the administration did and did this part of the work that envisioned this bill certainly slowed down those basic tasks of the Department for Detained and Missing, which is to enlighten and learn the truth about the missing and imprisoned in the Homeland War. So I am absolutely sure that the existing law that is still in force is a much better solution to this problem than the proposal for this law that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24729	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We welcome colleagues and colleagues at the gallery to the Committee on the Rights of Women of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, headed by President Samir Merai-Friae. . We're moving on with the replicas. [[Applause.]] A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24730	Dear colleague Ivić and part of your debate agree completely, but I'm going to go ahead with what you didn't say. After the Croatian generals returned from The Hague, after being freed of any guilt, after being removed from the Great Storm, the Croatian people breathed. General Gotovina himself said there you see it was a clean, legal action. There's no shadow left. But first of all, those who fight to be antifascism clean in Croatia should be the first to decide at last to close the book after World War II. It is a shame that this story has not ended until today, which has not been explored all the caves, that not all the circumstances under which countless crimes have occurred, which has not been determined how many of these crimes are, but this stain stands also over your authority because 17 years you have ruled in Croatia, no one has defended you from investigating it. So, all those who have ruled so far, and so is Racan's government, this government, all the HDZ governments that have done 22 years? Who to whom he forbids to determine who is responsible for these crimes and to give up a real drink. It seems to me that World War II is still an object of division and that the object is divided to be divided every day, not every day in a literal sense, but that year after year we are arguing in the Parliament and the divisions continue to be initiated. It needs to be done. Every false move of this government will be a new division. So, once in a while, we all come to our senses together and really give the pietate to our victims and let's tell them who's responsible for these crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24731	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24732	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I agree with you in essence that this Croatian history page should be concluded once. Let us not forget when you talk about responsibility is so all the governments why this problem has not been solved so far, that in the past 20 years we have had a lot of work to do with the Homeland War and the lighting up of the truth and the fate of thousands of Croatian defenders who and members of their families who have disappeared in the Homeland War and who, above all, have become the Ministry of Croatian Defence and the Department of Detained and Missing. As I can agree with you, such regulations as this law should be passed by consensus rather than by revote in the Croatian Parliament. And that is why I also said that the law currently in force is a good law because it is essentially voted by a political consensus, so unanimously and it was a good foundation and a good foundation for it to be implemented, which I am sure with this law that will be passed by a vote will not happen. And a special law-related story is an absolute office as an independent body. If there is no independent body who will do this job without a political patron, without political influence, then it will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24733	Thank you. And the last replica of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24734	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Ivić, you mentioned that it's likely the intensity of this amendment to the law that it is stalled that simply when the office is re-established as an independent body after this corn coalition has left power, there will be no more witnesses in the meantime. Probably that's the intensity or part of at least the people who worked on this law was the intensity to achieve just that. But the truth cannot be stopped. It'll just come out eventually. If that's not what the state is doing, we can see that the church is going to do it. But what's the problem? The truth will come out, but from that truth in the meantime, we will waste time so that we can really close that page and turn to the future. And the moment we need it most, which is right now the government is sending us a bill that is once again trying to get us back into some divisions from the past. There is the key to our criticism, there is the key to criticism, that this is a proposal that is not facing the future but that is trying to deepen the historical divisions that exist but that we must all together and responsibly close if we want Croatia to progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24735	The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24736	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with everything you said in your replica. The fact is that the truth will win sooner or later, however, the question is how we will come to that truth. I am sure in this way as this law foresees much more difficult, and I said that it is obvious and the aim of this law that this job slows down to what is natural that living witnesses of crime will be less and less and, of course, the truth itself will be much harder to determine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24737	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24738	Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the address in front of the HNS club, they would express deep pitet and regret for all the victims who had been killed and all the victims that had occurred since '41. until after the war. These discussions we have now do not leave much joy in doing a good job and with full responsibility we try to find the right truth for the Norman way into the future of the Croatian state and all its citizens. At the first reading of the proposal of this law, which was about two months ago, I can say that the debates seemed much more objective, much more quality than today. Today, we are again making certain doubts as to whether the commission, whether the ministry will succeed or not. What I can say is that, to all questions and all remarks, the defence minister has given too many answers. With these answers some may be satisfied some can't, but we in the HNS want to believe that this law is a good step in quality solving I would say in our site, a very important topic that we often return to and in the debate in this House that has nothing to do with this topic. These are most often in the past in the last 20 years of an independent Croatian state these were topics that were more day-to-day and when we had nothing else to discuss then we discussed it. We in the CNS stand on the fact that the truth about all events should be known to all Croatian citizens because it is part of our past, part of our history. What I'd say is that here a number of colleagues in the debates have come to say one collapsing on the research and processing of crime. So we're only talking about one segment here, researching tombs, graves of common, mass, and investigative actions about every grave site, every one of these victims, every single one of them, especially in the event of a crime regardless of any regime. This time the other criminal institutions of independent Croatian states take over and process it. We hope and believe it will be done. What the HNS Club would certainly like to point out is that the main goal is to establish a clear system in which to mark, preserve, investigate, and everything else. I think this law provides good grounds for us to be satisfied in that segment. What I would also point out on behalf of the HNS Club, that in the past 20 years, whether they were one government or another, we believe that there was not enough or desire or not enough to explore it in a quality way and to mark it in a quality way. About something not being done in the time behind us, I don't think we need to stress it here. What we in HNS consider to be a commitment to the future of the Croatian state to explore all these things in a quality way, because it will be primarily for the benefit of the dead, the victims and their families if they are still alive. What I would say is that the basis of this law is now in front of us in the second reading, that its foundations or foundations are in the UN Charters on the matter and victims and on the marking of the crimes of World War II and the crimes of communist regimes and that it is based on the laws of '91. and in 2011, that all the most important provisions of these laws were laid down in this law and we believe in the HNS that this law is one step forward. Article 1 refers to what is the basis for the adoption of this law, and Article 2 accurately interprets the meaning of certain topics which are also the purpose of resolving this law by mentioning the victims of World War II, postwar victims, war cemetery, military cemetery abroad, etc. In Article 3(3) of the HNS, it is very important to establish a register and records, and to think that this record should be possible, that all political parties in this Croatian Assembly should agree on such a common place where we will mark and all the victims. Because we see here and this law does not touch the question of anti-fascist fighters and civilian victims killed in World War II. It's the fruit of another law. We in the CNS believe that this should have been united, that there is no need to make any discrimination against any of the groups. So that way, if we're talking about history because we're not here and we don't want to tell this side right or wrong. This law has the task only to mark in a quality way, to establish memories, and to make those minimal information about every tomb, every common tomb and every mass grave. Also in Article 4, where it is specified precisely what is part of this law, whose obligations are and how all of this will be done. What must be our idea of a guide through this all to be unburdened by near and further history based on facts and on the truth and on all events in a quality way we process and present to generations that are coming because clearly this topic of World War II is going to be different for a long time. What we should certainly get the strength to agree on these essential things by consensus and to be a document and a law that will not only be a law that is on paper, but it will be the law that will help us find the truth, and what is most important is that every victim, every victim, no matter what time and in which war in a decent way, we mark. Again, I stress that we in HNS do not view this problem with ideology, we view it as a civilization, as a human question, that it is the duty of every person who has lost his life to mark it properly. What I purposely emphasized in the debate on behalf of the club was two terms of sacrifice and crime, because the victims may be soldiers who are in combat or civilians, but the victims are the ones you captured, shot, and so on. But it's not the issue of this law anymore, it's the problem of the KZ and the criminal proceedings on this. We, as a HNS club, will support and I am glad that the legislator of this law has accepted the proposal, the amendment that we will be able to discuss this issue every year in that report. And if that report is not on the trail of what I was talking about today on behalf of the club, be sure that the Croatian People's Party will surely seek consensus for everyone that time, to see if this is the best way. I'm sure we'll support a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24739	Thank you very much. And now we're going to the replicas. He is the first colleague, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24740	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Mandic, you said well in the end that we would discuss reports to find out whether this is good or not. But we haven't heard from the promoters, which is why the office is being abolished, because it turns out he's not doing anything. And I'll say what's been done in a year and a little over a year and a half since that office job. He's a legal person. He's registered. He's found his premises. Computer programs have also been set up to record the site. 30 cemeterys were investigated from the interior ministry list that took place with talks on the ground, with witnesses, were sounding. There was also a test dig. The exhumation of three localities has been completed, and this is the Blaze of the hill exhumed 30 minors with wire tied to their hands. A harvester exhumed 36 persons bound by wire, patients of the former Brestovac hospital and Harmica near Zapresic, exhumed 20 bodies also tied with wire. So three sites a year and six months. All these bodies are temporarily located, the office is working to arrange a final burial in cooperation with the church that donated the field. Field research is conducted at 10 next sites. International co-operation has been established with the Republic of Slovenia, Poland and Germany and field surveys have been conducted with dozens of witnesses. Even administrative oversight of the justice ministry has been carried out without negative findings. It's a year and a half after what we had a commission since '92. By 2002 for porn and porn victims, so that same one was abolished, and for 10 years nothing happened. Now we've got an office, we've got it shut down, and I'm sure the next time will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24741	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24742	I'm almost late with the replica at the last minute. Here's a thank you, dear fellow Boric. Well, I'm not denying for one moment that the commission didn't work, not for one moment. And really and now 60 or years after that, I'm disgusted by these facts that children, innocent people, have been killed in this way. But I also think that there was plenty of time that we could do more, we could do more. Let's leave the possibility of seeing that maybe this way is better. If I didn't believe in him he was better for him, I certainly wouldn't have given my support. I believe it will be done in a good way. Because if we make a comparison with the Homeland War Research Centro led by Mr. Nazor, we can say we're too pleased. Why can't it be here too that with some changes, let's see that it gets better. And if it doesn't score in the first year, we'll definitely take other measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24743	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24744	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Mandic, at the beginning of your debate, you said that such discussions would in principle bring nothing, or that they would not contribute to what this law should. Well, I can agree with that in one piece. But I'm asking a fundamental question why you're putting us in a position to discuss it, which is why, not so long ago, we've discussed this matter to the end. And we all agreed on one thing. Today we're breaking it down, we're arguing today, and we're not gonna make a deal. So we're going to stay again, and politics will be above all else. We think one thing, you think the other, and they're really interested, so they're the ones you're talking about that you should do it for, because of our past and the future, they're going to stay out of the way and nothing's going to happen. And briefly on what Mr. Vuksic was saying, I use a replica. So why hasn't this happened in the last 20 years? Well, there was a war first. After the war, we first had to demine what they were, and so did we. A series of reasons that don't justify the whole situation, but good reasons. So, from 2000 on, it could have been done. Therefore, the reasons that will say that this will make us more efficient I don't know because we don't have a buffer so we can't come. Now, I'm going to apologize first of all to those I don't want to offend, but then why didn't we approach that office? I don't know the Ministry of Transport, I don't know the links, I'm going to take the HAC. There's a bagger standing there, they're not doing anything, so we can be much more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24745	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24746	Dear colleague Milas, I may not have said well when I said the debate was too high. The debate was never enough, but my setting up was like that if we discuss too much with emotions, then I don't think the debates are good. So we here have to talk with some distance of 60 years, with a lot of wars and a lot of sense about these topics, because we see that these topics are not yet closed. I'd like to settle these issues and close and turn to the future. And then we'll lock them up if we can argue with the truth for each other and for the other and for the third. But only in order for the victims and these victims to receive the satisfaction of the true human being, that their kinsman, anyone may come to their grave to bow down. I think you have the full support of the HNS Club who is ready to find the best solutions on the unity of the Croatian people on this topic that has been unresolved for a long time and has not given the right answers to any questions asked. For the end, only truth can lead us to the right results and reconciliation inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24747	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24748	Dear Vice President, dear fellow Mandic, it was not really my intention to replicate to you, but it was offered to your reasonable and civilized, first of all, I simply must. So, in your presentation, you mentioned that in fact all the victims deserve a decent drink and a tribute, but it seems to me that in your discussion and mentioned the discovery of 20 bodies in Brdovac Harmica near Brdovac, so notice only that this is about German soldiers who have been recorded and detected with the help of buttons and personal documents. But if we try to break this debate that I'm afraid I'm not going anywhere with a reasonable appeal to all MPs and MPs, let's leave the monuments, open the calendars and the planners. This Croatia needs projects, an organization and that's what I'm afraid we're not doing right. So, let's close the monuments and open the planners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24749	Replication response, Ivica Mandic. But raise your colleague's plate, not your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24750	... who will take care of it and arrange it. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24751	Comrade Davor Ivo Stier, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24752	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Mandic, you probably accidentally mentioned in the debate that it was not the intensity of this law to say which side is wrong, which is right. I think that every law and this law must always be in accordance with the Constitution, and in the Constitution it is very clear that we are, we have a sovereign independent Croatia based on the foundations of antifascism, and also on the foundations of anti-communism. So those who were on the side of fascism were wrong, those who were on the side of communism were wrong. And that's one value every law must always respect. But you said something that's absolutely true, which is that when too often some government didn't know what to do then it would put history topics on the agenda. I think that's why you admitted that this government doesn't know what to do, so we have this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24753	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24754	Well, you have the right to interpret in your own way. When I talked about it, we as a party are convinced that he is not facing either the winner or the defeated. And that's not the point of this law. The aim of this law is to pay tribute and drink to all the dead, the injured, and especially to the victims of any regime. This is the goal and if this law is achieved by us as a club and as a party we will be particularly happy because it will be a big step towards those of our diversity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24755	Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24756	Thank you very much. A colleague of Mandić and also Mr. Romec, Mr. Roman, who you gave the replica Mandić, so it is all about each other, without knowing our past we cannot build our future. And let it be clear to you, and despite all your objections to you on the left, it must be so and it will be. And Mr. Mandic, you spoke very sophisticatedly about it, so to mark all the cemetery, etc. So do you know that some cemeteries are too crowded and are gone. In 50 years of communism, we don't have a cemetery, a military cemetery of enemies of communism. And all we have is a military cemetery... Wait a minute, I'll tell you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please give me... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24757	Please let your colleague say it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24758	This is how you spoke about Article 2 of your colleague Mandic, and in article 2 of the cemetery of war victims, there are graves and graves of persons, civilians from World War II or those who died as a result of war and political and genocide terror in the period from April 6th, '41. until 9 May '45. So now you tell me, Mr. Mandic, whether or not the cemetery of the victims of the war, and in that time period hundreds of those killed by Boricevic, 300 killed on 9/09/43. in Zrina, 150 killed on Christmas of '41. in iron, 400 killed in Krnjeusa in western Bosnia, etc.? Where are these people's cemetery, these civilians? That's what I'm talking about. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24759	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24760	Madam Vice President, since a fellow Intruder isn't understood. Since he's a colleague, you're gonna let me finish, then you. Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I will try to respond to part of what is directed to me, and what has instructed fellow Romans I do not know. What I was saying in all the exposure in front of the HNS club, I was talking about the truth. The truth can't be ours, theirs or some third. I'm talking about the truth that is the fruit of scientific expertise. There's plenty of time behind us. In this way to open graves who is whom, it is very sad and in my opinion unserious that in the independent state of 2012 calm down that year, I am talking about graves again about the reading of whose they are. We're talking about the victims. And I wish all regimes and only truth could save us anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24761	Thank you very much. We are talking about the law that is passed in the Croatian Parliament and which operates in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24762	I consider the Honorable Madam Vice President that you should have given a warning to Pupovac because nobody here advocates any change in the borders of the Republic of Croatia to Zemun to Drina or I don't know what. I am responsible for saying that we are also all thinking in HDSSB that this Croatia is also based on the anti-fascist struggle within the borders of ZAVNOH or AVNOJ, however you will but, above all, on the borders of ZAVNOH but also on the Homeland War and on the unique Liberation Action of Storm and this verdict to the generals was primarily condemnation of this Homeland War in which the Republic of Croatia was formed. And this Croatian Parliament is neither a birdie nor an inn to be struck. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24763	This is no longer in line with the Rules of Procedure on the Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Boro Grubisic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24764	Madam Vice President. This is really I don't know what to call Mr. Popovec's outburst. Namely, according to counterpart Milas, it is an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia, BiH sorry, Boris said with neighbouring countries on the research and marking of victims of fascism, communism, etc. Krnjeuša belongs to BiH according to which if Croatia has made an agreement with BiH on what are you, why are you banging your hand? Hit your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24765	You didn't explain any of the other injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I'm allowing everyone to express their opinion that offends no one else. And when it comes to the laws we're discussing... You didn't get your word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please calm down. And colleague Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24766	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Mandic was talking about the truth that we need to pass this law for the sake of the truth and for the truthfulness of events that were an impact and the reason why it was mentioned in Article 2(2) and the victims created by the communist regime in the whole of Croatia, in the area of Slovenia, in the area of BiH, all the sacrifices that the communist regime in the territory of Croatia and abroad has yet to be answered. What kind of Croatian truths are these? For these victims, the State's Attorney General always rejects any application. Is that Croatian truth? Is that the truth we want to hide again? Is that the truth we're putting under the carpet again? Can't we just happen to say that the same number of victims and the communist regime is also fascist? If we accept such truth and face it, then we can say that Rade Bulat is clearly a public confesser who committed murder, gangs and has no one to answer without justice and justice. Just like Manolić and...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24767	A colleague Djakic here is talking about the Law and not about investigations and verdicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24768	But because of the truth, Madam Vice President, of which we were invited, colleague Mandic referred to the truth. I just want to say that the truth has to be complete with a due piety to all the victims they don't experience it they don't have it because the bleeds aren't meant to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24769	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24770	An esteemed colleague in my debate never felt like I was making any difference from one side to the other. If it's a crime, crime has no national mark, no ethnic or any universal world. Crime is a crime no matter who did it. I didn't go to any of the abolizations here in my debate. You mention a certain gentleman here. Just a little bit, sir. I was listening to you. You're talking about gentlemen here, I'm not that investigating committee or criminal proceedings. We have institutions and I know that one part of the trio of the government of this country is an independent judiciary. You've had the opportunity to create certain structures. What hasn't been processed? Don't burden me, let's not read blood cells and 60 years after that. I'll mention again that the truth can go forward. There aren't any of ours, yours. True if it's a crime, a crime that he did and my own father he committed a crime. No double glasses and no double arches, that can free us and we can move forward. Because with a heavy weight like this, we'll never get anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24771	Thank you very much. It's the SDSS Club and fellow Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24772	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The discussion of the victims of war and of the vices of any and then of ours, in the period of '41-'45, either in the period '91-'95, is necessarily and inevitably painful because the loss of human life, the taking of human lives, are the most painful things that can happen to a human species and can happen to human communities. And that's why this debate deserves a drink if we want it to work out, too, from the SDSS's Club of Representatives, we'd like to. I would like to say here what these two principles are based on which we manage to understand this matter and on which we will discuss and act both today and the future as long as this debate continues. First, it's really time that in a country where there were several wars that had different dimensions, wars against occupation forces, interethnic wars, civil, ideological wars whose echoes we still hear here in this hall today, as well as those first ones, as well as those of others. So we treat it with full consciousness unless we want to capture Croatia today and tomorrow with the same story, as we held it captive for more than 10 years in the '90s, even after the '90s. That is why those who are calling for the various commissions that were then formed and established must be fair and say that these commissions were not in the function of truth but in the function of relativisation and audit. The commission found that 2,000 and some people were killed in Jasenovac. Don't call on that commission. There are better places to call and no one will argue with them. If you want me to help you create them together. But that commission and the people who ran it weren't absolutely people who could be entrusted with the job that we're discussing today and we need to discuss. The second question, therefore, is that we are in order to establish the victims, to establish the places, to mark them, but we are going in order. In the first row are civilian victims, and then members of military formations,... Madam Deputy Minister, as set out in Article 1 of the final paragraph. First of all, civilian victims. They are not victims who were either mobilized or unmobilized bearing the mark of the ideas, ideologies or the policy of uniforms they had on them. And those who wore any mobilized, either voluntarily or as they had it with them. That's why we're going to give these first ones the championship, and we're going to give these others all due respect if they're not criminals. If they're criminals, we won't. If they died in clashes and war conflicts to consider... So let us determine what the victims are in the right sense, then we will do the right thing. If we don't do it, we'll fight with other people's ideas, ideas of our grandfathers or grandfathers, not our sons and our daughters and their children. And I imagined this Parliament was working in the interest of those very generations, because I guess there was a lot of those who were in '91. Whether from the Croatian or Serbian ranks, we jumped out with the ideology of grandfathers and great-grandfathers and crushed the values that we believed existed and that they should be preserved. That's what I'd like. Also, if there is such a diction of this law we will support it but in one place it is said that those who were terrorists and assassins should also be recognized. Oh, my God. Yes, it does. I don't have glasses, so I can't read. ... So he writes an article in capital letters. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If my colleagues bring me my glasses, I'll read that too. I'll read that too. Therefore, the second paragraph is first. People who died in armed conflicts after 9.5.In '45, these victims were killed by the communist regime in the Republic of Croatia and abroad, including killed persons in outside court executions, abuse in prisons or captivity, terrorist and guerrilla attacks as well as assassinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24773	Please don't get off the bench! You can pick up the tile, but don't throw it out of the bench. Let your colleague finish his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24774	If it is as you interpret my remark will be unfounded, but make it clear. There can be no doubt about it. As far as this is concerned, if the SDSS's basic diction changes, it will support it. If we act in such a way as not to raise signs of their ideologies and their policies, then we will support the same. But if it's a sign of ideology and politics we won't support, we won't support it, and that should be made clear. Because, unfortunately, this debate does not make it clear, nor does it come from a debate that has been held in Croatia for over 20 years. And now I'm going to show you what he's saying in favor of not being clear. So, colleagues have repeatedly said that according to our constitution, the Republic of Croatia is anti-fascist and a follow-up to the value of anti-fascism. This is what one mentions of the site of the '42 victims. A thousand and three hundred years and something. Like this. This is what the village of Slavina looks like. This is what the area of monuments and crypts that were made for these people after the forest that grew up was cut and cleaned. So, the village is not Slavina, but Sloboština in the municipality of Brezovac between Pakrac and Požega. This is what the monument that was erected by these victims, where she was a mother with a child and a water jug because many were killed in a well, in three wells. This is how the unfortunate John says, "Welcome to the pumpkin. " And this is what a monument looked like on Peter's mountain. It doesn't look like this anymore today, unfortunately. And we're an anti-fascist country. It doesn't look like this. There's almost not a single piece of the metal plate anymore. Yeah, yeah. There's no one to determine who's wearing it or who's carrying it. And... Bakic who erected the monument as well as a monument in Kamenska, which was mined several times in '91. the year from which there is no stone left on the stone and of course the Croatian sculpture which can be presented on the Venice Biennale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But his monuments cannot be exhibited in Croatia, nor can they be placed in Croatia. I could do more, but with the photo showing, I'll stop. But I'm going to give you a few examples that ask us to spend things in this thing with our eyes that aren't just narrowly focused on one thing. The monument penetrates the final actions of the Sremski front in Bolman, Baranja in '97. He's been devastated and devastated for years. Why? There are members of Partisan formations of Serbs, Croats, Slovaks, many others who have freed their country, which we say we have separated from it by the basis of the rights that we had under the Constitution of the country. Then why are we tearing down that monument? Why? That our efforts to establish the military cemetery of members of Domobran formations or Wermacht formations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia will be more convincing, if we will destroy 3,000 partisan monuments in Croatia at the same time. If we have documented 80 crypts and monuments among which are the ones I have shown that are devastated in the Republic of Croatia and if in the country it is considered natural that it is the work of the Serbian People's Council, but not the state. Because this same freedom was not done by the municipalities, the county, or the state, but by us, the self-government of Serbs in Croatia. Why? Is antifascism in this area only for Serbs or belongs to all of Croatia. Is that how they shared themselves during World War II? No, they're not. Or anti-fascism should only be given for the occasion of the Italian story, and some other kind of story should be applied to Serbs. So we want to interpret antifascism or interpret it as originally practiced and thought. And one more thing. There are risks of colleagues and colleagues, that this work that we need to do and which SDSS club supports being done whether or not we're talking about children from the Brestovac hospital like a colleague or we're talking about prisoners of any military formations that were tried without a trial that were killed in revenge. No matter what their idea and ideology I can't agree on, but they were entitled to captivity. And they didn't get it. And no matter what left of them, the trace of the terrible crime was entitled to captivity. And as a lesson to those who come to these people, it is necessary to establish a place of death, where it is possible, of course. But are we going to do this so that it will be done as it was done this year in the 10th month in the area of Jadovna mentioning the area of Jadovna where one of the most terrible crimes in World War II was committed in general, not only in Croatia, that one of the members of the Ustasha formations and Ustasha movement that blamed these crimes, not the Croatian people, but the bearers of that policy, to raise the monument to them and to the civilian victims killed in this war, such as Stjepan Devčić in the area of Jadovna, is being erected a monument Here's another sentence, Madam Vice President. [[Strebec: Please bring the end, and you also have replicas and you will be able to answer.]] And civilian casualties in the war after '95. in Dovebić or in the Wet Field, the right to erect a monument is disputed. Not Martic, not one member of the Chetnic ideology or one who died under any sign of that species.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24775	Thank you very much. We have 10 replicas on your exhibit. The first is Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24776	Dear fellow Pupovac, I listened carefully to you, you showed pictures, I'm sorry I don't have pictures of Golog Island to show what it looks like today as a mention of a time, but I'm going to say something about that death camp. Since '49. Until '56. It was a political prison, I think you'll be interested, and the public was shown as a prison intended for infobiros, however research has shown that only 5% of the people there were infobiros or IBs and all the other 95 were political non-insects, and you were talking about victims, civilian victims after 1.06.'45. It ended there without written judgment and conduct of criminal proceedings. It was enough to suspect or report someone from the intelligence community. And now this is interesting, listen, you may be interested in the structure of 16 thousand prisoners – 7 076 Serbs, 3 468 Montenegrins, Croats 2 561 and then Slovenians, Macedonians, Albanians and more. I hope you're interested. The number of deaths never established, assumptions and written documents speak of several hundred, and there are certainly more. And that is why this law is unacceptable because it will not allow research at that site even though it is owned by the Republic of Croatia. And that is the mention of what was wanted to be solved through a law that was abolished by a new law like this. And that's why it's important, and that's why I told you this number to realize that this is something other than what's trying to show off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24777	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24778	I'm sorry I couldn't talk about the naked island, but the naked island is certainly one of the best examples that best shows the nature of the regime at the time. And not only the nature of the regime, but the means used by the so-called excuse. More force and greater reason, which means defense from someone outside, defense of the state in the name of a terrible crime committed on the naked island. So you'll find a partner in me to explore it. And you don't have to remind me specifically. And this law, if it doesn't make it impossible and it doesn't happen in the first report, we as representatives are obliged to go there as well as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24779	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24780	Thank you very much. I hope that we have now agreed to Article 2(2), where it is obvious that they do not wish to mark the memory of the death of terrorists but of the terrorists who have killed and the like. Therefore, I think that if you start with such an idea in this law, it destroys everything, but obviously it wants to focus the debate in another direction. He could have come from us all here with dozens of pictures and monuments for those who had been killed since '41. By '45, especially after '45. But we could also come with pictures of the dead Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. Why didn't you show a picture of the dead directors in Bor's village? It offends, it's a fresh wound. That's what insults everyone right now. But if that's the way we're gonna talk, and if we're gonna watch the law, then we're never gonna close one story. For 50 years, the Croatian people were convinced that they were genocide, the Croatian people were the only ones who committed crimes. I'd like all my colleagues and colleagues to take a look at the population list in '41. And let's look at '51. So you'll see it's '41. For example, in Knin lived, 50% of Croats lived in Knin municipality at the time. In the '90s, it came to 5%, and I'm not talking about other places, etc. I therefore do not think that it should be succumbed to when we talk about such topics in the daily debate from the pitets towards those who were killed masculinely and hundreds and thousands of Croats were killed in Croatia and outside of Croatia after '45 on the most cowardly and insidious way with a bullet in the back of the head just because they were Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24781	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24782	My fellow Shuker, by any chance these monuments I have not otherwise shown photographs of any victims merely of monuments and mentions of the victims I am talking about today. A monument to murdered officers stands, a monument to these people does not stand. That's what I'm talking about. So don't put what I didn't say in my mouth and don't give me the intention I didn't have because I said it and I'll repeat it again, I respect all the sacrifices, and I'm willing to bow down to them all, but don't put in my mouth what I didn't say. And don't limit the discussion of those things that we need to discuss, which is if we are doing this and we're asking that the victims of World War II be respected, how could it have happened to us that the victims of the Partisan anti-fascist movement of the Ustasha victim, the victims of any other formations lost their monuments. And we're asking today for these first monuments to be erected that I was talking about. I'm not denying this, but I'm asking and I expect us to change the context in which we're doing it because otherwise it's going to be a process that looks like a history review. Access to victims should be separate from access to the revision of historical and idea facts I am talking about. And it hasn't been enough in years. Not that it wasn't enough, it was the opposite. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24783	Davor Ivo Stier replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24784	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Pupovac, this is the last thing you said I think we all have to agree that it is not acceptable for the revision of history or the revision of the Croatian Constitution. And as for that period you mentioned from '41 to '45. The constitution is very clear and Croatia is created on the basis of antifascism. But the same sentence in the original terms also speaks of the period that came after the '45th to '90s, and here it is said that the sovereign Croatian state was created on the basis of the anti-communism rejection of the communist regime. And I'm a little sorry you missed that part to emphasize. You stressed that Croatia was created on the basis of anti-fascism, and that is fine, but the continuation of that sentence under the Constitution that we do not want to revise but we all swore that we stick to it says that the Croatian state was created also on the basis of anti-communism. Those who were on the side of the communist regime were on the wrong side of history. You've shown of course these images of the destroyed monuments, unfortunately the monuments for the victims of communist terror, we haven't been able to even show those victims, but these monuments are still in those relatives that continue to mourn those people. And that is why we really need to go with the pie, not with ideology, to close this chapter and really turn to the future. Well, here I would really like that and on the team... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24785	Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24786	As for the non-democratic regime that some of us have participated in, someone from the left, someone from the right, someone from the national someone from the Social Democrats about its change and about the request for its democratisation, you will find an ally with me, and about creating a new ideology in which political pluralism and political ideas and the diversity of political ideas with me will be limited. That's for sure. Therefore, if someone said that three big ideas of modern European history of liberalism, nationalism and socialism should be stegmatized because there were fascist regimes, Nazi regimes, communist regimes in certain countries would be a fatal story. Thus, it is also true of antifascism and communism. In our anti-Communist enthusiasm, we cast out both the child and the remains of anti-fascism. If it hadn't been for that, I wouldn't have had to talk about the monuments I was talking about. That's all I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24787	Replica Zoran Vinkovic. ... Boro Grubisic replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24788	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. No one thought or considered any kind of revision in the sense in which you said it. However, the name of this legislative proposal itself is already being revised. It left out the formulation of the victims of communism as ideologies I'm talking about, I'm not talking about anyone personally or specifically. Furthermore, there is a saying that she wrote on a monument of antifascism in Jasenovac, in the very place of Jasenovac, which I remembered deeply, and there she wrote dead eyes opening. Now, if we think carefully and deeply about what this message means, so we should respect all the victims and see, you've shown images of the monuments, unfortunately, here I say unfortunately both devastated and destroyed. For example. In the Kingdom of the Spanish monument Frank was not devastated and destroyed after the fall of Generalissius Frank. We had it that way, that's a fact. But here, you said you respected all the victims, so respect what I mentioned. Therefore, those victims that occurred during this period referred to in Article 2 of April 6th, '41. until 9 May '45. Those are the victims I was talking about. So both in Boricevic and in Iron and Zrin, and I don't know where they all don't, so they have the right to traits, such monuments. I hope someone doesn't knock them down or devastate them and we'll finally have one balance in that there's no need to tear down the monuments. That's what I'm talking about. And you said you respected all the sacrifices, so tell me if you were in the Sheepchare, bowed down to the victims of the Sheep.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24789	Thank you. Time's up. Please take care of yourself. It's a lot of replicas. Take care of the weather. Would you like to answer? Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24790	Dear colleague, on your last question, I was on the Ovcara. I was at Ovcara with President Josipovic and President Tadic if that means anything to you. And when you talk about November 18th, representatives of the Ministry of Defence know that we have been having a conversation, that we can participate, not only Milorad Pupovac but also citizens of Serbian nationality and other representatives in marking the memory of the victims of Vukovar and the Vukovar region, were they Croats or Serbs. And as far as I'm concerned, you'll always have an accomplice in me. But unfortunately, when I wanted to go to Skabrenj in 2004 and 2005, people were still bitter and said no. In 2004 with Bulgaria's foreign minister and then prime minister, Bulgaria's foreign minister was OSCE chairman, they said they could come but Pupovac cannot come. So for all the time it takes, I don't get mad at these people, they've had great losses and maybe they couldn't understand my intention and my desire, but today we sitting here should know from what everyone's doing so far, what intentions and what desires he has. In this sense, I do not dispute the need to determine what happened in the Bosniaks, but as there are people who say what happened in Serbia should not be ideology but there must be history in the right sense of that word. That's how it applies to the Borician.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24791	Thank you. Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24792	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, I listened with interest, and I liked your part of the speech where you were actually talking about the future, about what we should turn around and that we can't keep going back to some ideologies failed or belonging to the ideologies that are a thing of the past because we won't bring anything good to ourselves or to others, and I agree with you in a gradual manner. However, I am invited to this replica because I read this law in another way and do not look at it in Croatian-Serbian relations. I look at it a lot wider, and I believe we'll all agree here, although everyone at first talked about piety to the victims, and then we switched to some kind of dry debate where it is, and where something didn't happen and how such things should be marked. What I wanted to react to is your finding of the destruction of monuments that can't be justified, nor can the state justify it, nor can it be taken to protect any individual who would commit such an act. The difference is that I see this law as a law that will for the first time allow those who did not have monuments, whose graves are unknown or only suspect where they might finally get their place, get their monument and get the debt of pite from each government, this authority that is now in force as well as the previous ones that were and because of it it seems to me that this law has not fully hit the point because, among other things, it is contrary to other laws, namely expanding the activity of one ministry through what other law gives it the right. And when we realize that it's the urgency to lift a special agency, an office, whatever you want to call it, which had a job in an adequate and decent way to solve that question, then it's actually our opposition because of the methods used, not the goals that they're trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24793	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues, watch the screen time. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24794	I'm going to do it again, the respected colleague of the Mlakar. And I find your debates to be important to the debates in this House, not only on this subject but on others. But to open up a question about the victims of World War II, and at the same time not to be aware of what happened to those who were victims of World War II. These same military formations and members of the army that we are to mark today's graves are not fair jobs. It's just my thesis. And we're in danger of marking these, and at the same time as someone says that these others heal in the woods or in the grass or I don't know where else. That's the point. And we certainly can't give consent to that, as I believe you can't. And as for the destroyed monuments and tombs and crypts, why is it less evil, not to say crime to destroy a monument that has already been erected by evil, not to build a monument to those who should have been erected a monument.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24795	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24796	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Pupovac, you compared the victims, the monuments, the memories of them, the drinking, and the stealthy mistakes you saw yourself after the glasses, and you saw that it was those victims who, after World War II, experienced their own death without judgment, without a court of law by the communist authorities. If the images were true reality, maybe these are yours I believe they are, but these are images that we don't see, which are pictures from the Slatin Drenovac, where 410 bones, which are not arranged, are just marked by cross. In a 780 dead ditch, in the 780s Gracans, in Bjelovar also over 700 victims. And now this law that's passed without an insurance fund wants to put it on one I'd say stand by. Let not a year be wrought, let time pass, let him forget, and let not those wounds be opened. How will the truth bring forgiveness if we do not know the truth? How will satisfactory and piety be satisfied if we don't even know the truth? It's just questions that you should ask as well as we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24797	Answer? There isn't. A colleague named Tink Miles, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24798	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, I think that's exactly what I said to my colleague Mandic in one replica. So, definitely this law, whatever is voted upon, will leave a trail of politics, a trail of what is absolutely, and even ideologies that he would not keep in himself. I personally don't see him as a law that speaks directly of partisans or Ustashas. So he's talking about the victims of World War II and porn. And it's certain that every normal one, and I think that's the biggest number in this country, a man condemns everything that happened to those pictures you showed us. But that we're anti-fascists, or that this country was created, so we showed it in this Homeland War exactly in a way that we created a state by a free and defence war, and I think we all agree on that. If that's not evidence of anti-fascism, then I don't know what it is. And this is whether it's generalization, or if I'm wrong, I think it's really the incident of the destruction of monuments, individuals, vandals that we simply don't need, and no one is going to put up with them in their ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24799	Answer? No, I don't. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24800	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here I think that just now the discussion of my colleague, Pupovac, shows how guilty it is that the Ministry of Defence is given jurisdiction to investigate these and the history and determination of these facts, and then it is expected that this will be resolved or started with two million and some kunas in the coming year. In fact, what we need to be afraid of are these partial approaches and partial assessments. My colleague Pupovac says it's not a fair job if it's going to re-valorize relations in the history of '41. By '45. And we can agree on that. The problem, however, is where this antifascism ends when it's on behalf of the '45 antifascism. Until '47. Only from the official data of the former state was it said that 36,000 people were killed. I'm not saying that this number is final, but I'm just saying that according to official sources, it's about that number. On the other hand, it's mentioned here and the problem of terrorism. The previous state was the most terrorist action carried out, the most people killed from the 60s to the 90s much more in Europe and America than the former Soviet Union did. The question of these monuments is being asked here. It is said that what is not said is that most of the monuments have been taken down, or destroyed by a red star, or five-pointed. And the problem is that we cannot agree on the Altar of Homeland where it would be a common monument for all for the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24801	Thank you very much. Please take care of the weather again. Are you trying to answer Dujomir? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24802	Here's the esteemed Madam Vice President, colleague Tudjman, colleagues and colleagues. When I talk about condemning communist regimes, then I'm not talking about condemning a five-pointer, I hope. Because if we understand that this trial of communist regimes means both the trial of Carl Marx and those who were his sequels and the stars of the five-pointers then we understand things I'm afraid backwards, then we interpret things too widely to ease the formulation. And we shouldn't. As for the period '41-'47. Is the number you mention, so 36 or 37,000, '45-'47, so for that period, you have a partner in me and my club. But what I expect is that we have a partner in the '41 period. By '45. So it's also for Gudovac and other places. Before any armed action or any resistance was given, where camps have already been established and where mass murder systems have already been established. Unfortunately, the same goes for the clay church. To whom it honors, I shall repeat it once again, that in the memory of the home of the people who were killed there, not the newly erected church, not some type of sign and memorial that should in any way be fought by people but who should be gathered together by people in '95. The Croatian home is placed instead of the home. Who would want to even a Croatian name with a crime in the clay church? And who thinks the Croatian name should cover the crime? And we haven't found the answer to that question yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24803	Thank you. And the last replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24804	Honored Madam Vice President, Mr. Pupovac, I am a supporter of the greatest eager supporter of style and love if you will why not between the Croatian and Serbian people and I will do everything and help what I can do in this regard. I'm not sure your performances are going on the line of such a policy, but now it's a special story. And it won't be, peace may be but the right to progress in these areas and it won't be until the Croats and Serbs sit across from each other and resolve all their themes, dilemmas from the past and the present and, in some ways, hand in hand in hand in these areas find a common policy for their future. And I won't touch you, I didn't understand whether you were talking about the Croatian-Serbian relations of fascism-antifascism, so I'm going to replicate this to you about anti-fascism that it should be understood originally as it is. So you said you needed to separate access to historical facts. Antifascism, Mr. Pupovac, in these areas has committed such crimes and crimes worse than fascists. And if we were to go by analogy that those who did something, members of No, no, no, no, no. [[Break Zgrebec: Kolega Marasović.]] Marasovic, but that's right. He's committed crimes that can only be defined as a fascist method. Let's just take
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24805	Kola Marasović read the Constitution and you will see that you speak
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24806	Let me read the Constitution, I say what I think. Take an angry pit in Slavonia that 5, 10,000 people are locked in a gas chamber in some way and embalmed there. And that we haven't gone there yet to see what's going on with those 10, 15 thousand people. There were both women and children, and what kind of antifascism are you talking to me about? The star of the five-pointed, Mr. Pupovac professor was before anti-fascism, she is a symbol of communism and as such she is condemned in the Council of Europe and we need to condemn her as a sign of communist ideology.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24807	Thank you very much. It's the HDSSB and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic's turn. Would you like to respond? Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24808	Well, I didn't think so. In a sense, in Marasovic, I also sympathise in his windy and not of course sometimes with the attitudes I represent and some of the general values. But I know I'm in some habitual advantage because I have some photos that others haven't prepared, but they'll prepare another time. But when you talk about anti-fascism, this is a monument to the tomb in Donja Caglic, western Slavonia to civilians and members of the then resistance movement of the Partisan movement. It says here in Madrid with that in the tomb of gold there rests the leader of all Croats. Home ready. That U and kill a Serb. If this were a unique case, I would be ashamed to show this, but in your Split and in my Zagreb, there are unfortunately no five-pointers in your and my Dalmatia. Maybe your heart will be more in place for that, but I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24809	And now the HDSSB club and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24810	I thank the esteemed vice president. Here I'm going to ask you if I don't happen to remember you remind me that I want to accidentally raise a line, I want to answer on behalf of the club, whether I'm going to have an individual discussion because apparently what's worth it to some who are in a position is not worth it to those who are in opposition. So there's a Rules of Procedure, so we're working on it. This is before I move on to this Final Proposal of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeterys of Victims of the 2nd World War, and we had to be ashamed of ourselves, so we put in a postwar period when it is known to refer to communist crimes in the Republic of Croatia. Not wanting to enter territorial claims, but these communist crimes have occurred in both Serbia and BiH and Macedonia and Kosovo, which will obviously never be part of the Republic of Serbia again. But it is not the Croatians' fault, but someone else, or Serbs themselves, and the ideology that has been leading to this bloody war in the former Yugoslavia, eventually led to a war in Serbia itself. Crimes also took place in Vojvodina, and in Slovenia they took place both in Hungary and Romania and Bulgaria, etc., etc. Not to mention all the countries of that communist bloc even though the former state was out of those blocks, but for those who doubted above all in the position of the HDSB Club for those who declare the party of crime or I don't know how, we know very well what it says in the Constitution and how it came to be. The anti-fascist struggle, with the anti-fascist struggle not being a sign of identity with communist ideology because it wasn't just communists who were anti-fascists. It was also created on the basis of the Homeland War, on the one on the blood of Croatian citizens. I am sorry now that the members are leaving because they obviously do not want to hear the truth, created by the magnificent victory in the Storm and this verdict to Croatian generals and their release has shown that the Storm of the Homeland War was not an organized criminal enterprise but was a battle against that great Serb, Chetnic aggression that was waged under the policies of Slobodan Milosevic and the so-called "Major". JNA and that's a fact. And we stand up for it if there were individual crimes and in that magnificent action, let the guilty be investigated and the guilty be punished. A crime took place for us and in Jasenovac. The crime also took place on the naked island. These are not the crimes of the Croatian people, these are the crimes of certain ideologies. The crimes occurred in Old Gradišca, and in Lepoglava, and in Glina, beginning with Bleiburg and all of the Crossway, and for these crimes, someone should be held accountable. Who makes the new division of the Croatian people? In the home war of the 1990s, all those who wanted to, and I would say and love Croatia, it was so whether their grandfather was a Ustasha or a Partizan whether he was a native to them or not give God a Chetnik, but they also put themselves in the National Guard Assembly and in the Croatian Army because they wanted Croatia. all those who did not want Croatia chose both the place and the time and the way it will be against that Croatia. And that's a fact that no one can escape from today. I could've brought these pictures myself. There are also on the monuments of Croatian defenders and here in Djakov where there are two monuments of Croatian defenders. One of me thinks the most beautifully decorated cemetery in Croatia is a mother who prays here in the very center of the city where the monument of Petra Barisic shows a tank barrier in the shape of a cross that writes BBB and Torcida. But there's that monument in Borovo Selo where the day after the discovery is written this is Serbia with the 4S. It's not that Serbia is Croatia, it's neither Vukovar is Serbian nor will it ever be. And that's it, so let's make whoever wants to be angry, but that's the way it is. And I'm going back to this law now because I don't think we should talk today about April 10th or 29th, but first of all, the future needs to be turned around. But gentlemen from the coalition, you have made a new division of the Croatian people by abolishing it, and it was the first and the first, by abolishing the patronage of the Croatian Parliament over the Bleibur memorial. The law ahead of us, or another reading, which reminds me that the law was passed in 2011. So I would say almost unanimously by general political consensus, this law has first and foremost, and I would say to abolish and abolish this Office for the Research of Communist Crimes and raises doubts about us that it will also be the end of the investigation of these crimes. Because I don't see any logic in breaking the law that was passed unanimously, practically unanimously. I also don't see a great reason if we really want to permanently mark the sites of the victims, primarily the Croatian people, because among these victims is precisely, these unexplored victims exactly the majority of the members of the Croatian people. And if we're not mistaken, they're victims of communist crimes, they're victims of the crossroad. I'd like to finally find out which pit, where the canal, where the field, where the forest is buried, and my grandfather. First of all, if the state is like this, and today here's what I have to say, and I'm gonna break the story with World War II and go back to the present. If the state really intended to continue investigating communist crimes, the crimes of one ideology then needed to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and additional funding for research, as well as for the permanent marking of these cemetery and cemetery itself. Because many cemeterys are so big that they may be bigger than local municipal cemetery because that's what the victims of communist crimes say. Not a colleague, someone said there are no monuments to the victims of communist crimes, one monument that is the head that sinks, exists in Đakov, set in 2008, so during one democratic and mayoral, but also a democratic headship and HDZ was not then on the authority of counterpart Boris, here for your information. I ask the following question again, here you also have the opinion of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, so the committee that is drawn up from almost all the political options here in the Assembly, which has unanimously reached the conclusion that this law is not going to go into an office, that money is being provided in the state budget, because many units of local self-government, and the best example for this is Goli Island, which is the unit of local self-government that can provide funds in its budget not only to explore but also to mark cemeteries, not to put me wrongly, the naked island in office, but if we really want to drink to those victims then that naked island cannot look what it looks like today, devastated. So the question arises why is it exactly the Ministry of Defense, we also asked in the first reading. We really don't see the reasons behind one of those decisions. The financing of municipal activities is a unit of local self-government. I agree here, however, this is not a communal activity. Researching crimes, communist crimes is not a communal activity, nor is any obligation directed towards units of local self-government under this law a communal activity. Whoever claims to be a communal activity obviously doesn't know what municipal activities are. It is also highlighted here in the Committee on Local Self-Government, and we at the HDSSB Club need to prescribe the law on the obligation to finance from the state budget of all conservation procedures to mention all the victims and thus maintain them, because you can imagine what can happen. For example. We have the Municipality of Rusevo, it is on the way from Đakov to Požega, it is one small municipality that does not probably have enough funds for the pay of the commissioner or for the basic municipal needs, and there is one cemetery and one mention of the traits that are being visited every year and gives piety to all the victims who have been killed there. Today, the government I say announced these new nine billion kuna tsunamis, I don't know where they're getting them from, though, without a certain timetable when these tsunamis will be executed, so I suggest they hire maybe Vakulu and he gives them around that term plan. But here's if there's a really big asset I don't see the reason why then the budget didn't define it here. In the end, I appeal, regardless of the fact that there is no third reading in the Rules of Procedure, but this law is clearly ready for reading, for third reading, for finishing first and for the sake of our present, for the sake of this 346671 unemployed, for the work of 70,000 young people without a job, for the work of 180,000 women who are in it. But first of all, because of all those who were victims of various ideologies that were killed by men without judgment, and most often they were not guilty, most often they were not guilty. We're here to investigate crimes, to condemn crimes, but also to drink to all victims. But you can't transfer all that to the burden of local self-government that you've desecrated to devastate her anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24811	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Three replicas. First up, he's a colleague of Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24812	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vinkovic, when you spoke of monuments, I avoided the beginning of a discussion with my colleague Pupovac to say so, because it will turn out to be auctioned with monuments. If we are talking about the destruction of monuments, then I will remind you that Croatia has special damage, tragedy, that its monuments of culture and spirituality are in the form of Catholic churches in this Chetnic aggression that took place in '91. years leveled by the earth. So if we put it in the context of the collapsed monuments, then we'll get a completely different picture than what the performances of individual representatives want to show. And I think we should take care of it by talking about this law. The law didn't primarily refer to the accident that hit us since '91. the year, but at that time after 1945, which one to say so, the regime sought to completely throw out of focus not only to the public but also to the perceptions of each individual man. And we're talking here about the fact that we want to, and they're all talking about that sense of victims, of the innocent victims there are in every war we want here at least to sort of mitigate the consequences of denying those victims since 1945. This job was done by an institution that was the only task that was completely logical. And today's government that invents some agencies and funds that it couldn't even begin to think about, on the other hand, is now, on the other hand, moving some of this job savings to a ministry that's a propos, which I've already said. Read in the section, don't do those jobs. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24813	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24814	If he wants to do these jobs, he has to amend the Department's Part-Corruption Act because otherwise against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24815	Once again, please respond to the line for two minutes. Follow the time on the screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24816	I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24817	Thank you. Well, basically, you didn't replicate anything to me, but here's the thing, I'm sorry there's no fellow bud here. He often mentioned today I'll be your partner in that, I'll be your partner in that, I'll be your partner in that. After the verdict, liberating judgment to Croatian generals, I read very well what my colleague Pupovac said. Very good! And there was supposed to be a partner, to acknowledge the UN court's verdict, the final verdict. Some judgments are not final, such as the ruling by Croatian General Branimir Glavas. On the other hand, he could show that he was going to be a partner. Because that verdict freed Croatia. It's the second State Day. Because it was shown and proved that the Homeland War was not an organised criminal enterprise, that the first Croatian president was not the leader of an organised criminal enterprise and all those involved in the Homeland War were not participants in an organised criminal enterprise. And it's clear to me that it hurts someone right now. It may also hurt to release the one from Kosovo who was Prime Minister. It probably hurts, but it's proof that that big-serb idea of creating Greater Serbia will never happen, never and never be condemned by the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24818	Thank you very much. Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24819	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Vinkovic said that if I'm not mistaken, the first step to dispute power and opposition was to abolish patronage over Bleiburg. I would have that little correction said the first step was ten years ago when the altar of the homeland was abolished and those names of the holiday changed, so that the unity and that sense of unity and the symbols of the creation of the Croatian state were actually lost. And instead of or if you want to, and this law is proof that you today have neither an institution nor sources of funding, something that should be an altar of your country. And there you are fully agreed to transfer the burden to the local administration that they themselves are maintaining it is simply not logical and not working. If we as a state, as a Croatian Parliament, are unable to agree on a symbolic place where all foreign statesmen who come to Croatia, all ambassadors will go to the Altar Homeland to worship the country in which they have come to represent their country, then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24820	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24821	So here I can agree with my colleague Tudjman even in that former dungeon of Croatian people went bowing down to an unknown hero, an unknown hero, and well the same is unknown or unknown, but it was first and foremost a relationship to the state itself and the institutions of power. No matter what state it was. Unfortunately, we Croats except in individual or citizens of Croatia that someone is not looking for me again on behalf of certain clubs, we obviously show our unity when we really don't have another way out, so then we all go together to look for a new way out. But regarding Bleiburg it was not a division of the position and opposition, it is one new to me completely unnecessary division not only here in the Parliament but Croatian peoples. Who will be the Croatian Parliament sponsor of the Bleiburg memorial? Because Bleiburg is a synonym for the crossroad and for all the casualties on the crossroad. And communist crimes. And if someone wants to, as someone has announced here that they will mark Croatian people's deaths all the way across the cross, then I am responsible for saying that no Croats want to go that cross road anymore. And return the patronage of Bleiburg because it is a general Croatian sanctuary of both left and right and those in the center. And a symbol of the reconciliation of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24822	Thank you very much. And colleague Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24823	In your debate, you have touched the inability to implement such provisions of the law concerning the powers of units of local self-government over possible military cemeteries or cemeterys. So you cited in your discussion and example of the Golog Island. Here's something else about the naked island. It's an island of 4,7 kilometers square, which was enough to accommodate four camps there. '49. The year 1200 people were landed in that area. It's the beginning of a fight with the inexperiences of that system. They were people from the top, they were partisans, they were people who at one point didn't know what to think which side was just or right. And now it's the island that's the only one with St. The Greek who is the same casamat of that time is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. One of the few in the Adriatic Sea, one of the few that has established the limit of maritime good as a whole. However, devastated entirely with buildings that look dauntingly, which also attract over tens of thousands of visitors annually. She offered local self-government to build a memorial area, to let local self-government manage through the Audio Agency because she owns these buildings to valorize something in the tourist section. We've never had anything and we've got a situation that'll be possible, and I'm saying that it's hard under the laws of this kind to even carry out any investigative actions to find out there that there are dead people out there, that there are people who are buried that no one knows about. That in the next two to three decades we will put that island in any function, let alone create an area where we can bow. Unfortunately, today it's just one record that says there was a casamat that was set up last year, but no one wants to even bow to those people on 23.08.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24824	Thank you very much. Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24825	I understand that, fellow Boric. Since I've run out of time, the HDSSB club won't support this law if it wasn't clear from my debate. On the other hand, not only were the partisans there to say so, then the Goli Island was filled with other political inexperiences and fortunately that I was not yet born then, because I would certainly have ended up there. And he probably wouldn't be here today. On the other hand, I wanted to start my speech with one provocation and say simply for the house ready. And then I'd like to see what would happen here in this House. I'd really like to see it. But I think the fundamental and fundamental problem of this law is, first of all, that this is the end of the investigation of these communist crimes. When I say communists here, I don't mean Croats exclusively, I mean all those who were killed by these crimes. And those are the crimes of an ideology that is fortunate, and I hope it dies. I'll tell you about the end of an anecdote that's tied to your island, Goli Island. In fact, we had one worker like this who had his horse and was driving coal. And at one point he cursed Stalin and ended 3, 4 days it was '48, it was an anecdote and ended up there at the police station. And they convinced him that Stalin was a good boy, etc. He returned from the station after seven days went to the inn, got drunk and started yelling lived Stalin, then ended alive on the Golo Island for six years. When he came back from Golog Island, I ended up, that horse of mine, he was dead, his soul rested, that horse he called Stalin. And so Stalin drove coal in Djakov.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24826	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is counterpart Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24827	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. In the last 20 years, there has been a disturbance between politics and the economy in all three important areas of analysis of social action and institution building. This resulted in the marginalisation of society and the inability to fully understand what is happening in and with society. ...the logic was particularly devastating for the new liberal democracies that were just being built by civil society. Because of the value that this imbalance has led to, social activists are focused on general good and values such as solidarity, equality, justice, protection of minorities and particularly democracy. The mobilisation of society existed only in hostile selfishness, the domination of the economy, especially in democracy, result in a corrupt policy of the mafia and the most primitive political pulsism. The rebellion and demonstration in most Western democracy states, including in Croatia against banks, large capital, neoliberal economies de facto, are a requirement to return to politics. These protests are mostly without visible leaders and without concrete requirements whose fulfilment could be verified. However, their message is a request for parcyptiveism by concluding society on decision-making on its own fate at different levels. This is a requirement to restore positive values on which a democratic political culture is based on the solidarity of universal human rights, freedom, civil equality, tolerance, justice as a practical category in the functioning of state institutions. I therefore believe that one of the priorities of the upcoming period is the affirmation of these values and the strengthening of their established political culture of participation in society. As a basis for strengthening... culture special importance have two processes. The necessity of completing the institution of the state and involving citizens in topics that are directly... and of interest. One of the topics that burdens one part of the citizens and a particular political elite in Croatia is the relationship to the past and the specific period of World War II and porn. I am convinced that the 2nd World War in the area of the former Yugoslavia should be left to historians to continue studying it and to term it. This does not mean, however, that the consequences of this war should not be solved, and these are certainly the war graves of the victims of World War II and of the postwar period. The 2nd World War as the greatest and most brutal war conflict in mankind's history has left us with an inheritance among other things and care for all the victims of this work in Croatia and living but also dead. By subject law of the Republic of Croatia, it shall take over the research and editing of the graves of post-war victims and keeping records of the sites and the number of victims found in them, and of the treatment of the remains of the victims of World War II and of the victims of the post-war period of dignity and of the proper maintenance of the military cemetery, the cemetery of the victims of the 2nd World War and the victims of the post-war period. The law is also based on Geneva Conventions and Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes and on the EU Resolution of the European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of the European Parliament, and on the position of the Republic of Croatia that military and civilian victims who have lost their lives due to war action in the post-war period have the right to a worthy eternal resting place. The law fully ensures adequate treatment in finding and taking care of remains. The defence ministry is in charge of law enforcement, local self-government units are logically responsible for maintaining the cemetery. Protection of Croatian military cemetery abroad is carried out in collaboration with contracts, agreements with countries where the cemetery is located. Wars are always an unfortunate solution to dispute resolution and always leave tragic consequences among which are the most difficult scales of victims. Every war no matter how small it was always on the surface casts various foundations of society, and the consequences are not always expected, long-term and always significant. Military conflicts kill individuals, destroy families, destroy economies, destroy society. In international law, only defence work is justified. After the wars of the consolidation of the state and society, it is expensive and painful for all citizens. The consequences of wars suffer many generations after the end of these wars. One of the obligations that wars leave behind is a worthy burial of all victims. It makes us a civilized and empathy society. Only traits, memorials, memories remind us of all the weight and tragedy of warfare, also remind all future generations of how devastating wars are for many innocent people. Croatia is unfortunately a state that has vivid memories of the recent Homeland War and of the 2nd World War and of the tragic victims of porn. It is up to us contemporaries that in the shortest time and in the shortest possible way, we repair all the damage from the... wars. The clever proposal for a law on research, the arrangement of military graves and victims of World War II and the postwar period is a good law and fully resolves our human debt against the victims of that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24828	Thank you very much. Next in the debate, counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24829	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I will try to explain in my discussion how we came to this second reading in the first place and some reasons why I am against such a bill. The esteemed deputy has been listening to us all day long, and this will likely end in the end of the day, we will all thank you. Tomorrow we'll vote it out and there's a question at all about the meaning of all this. But the story of the office and... the same office left long before the first law proposal that came to Parliament at all came to Parliament. That's when it started to talk about the unnecessaryness of it, about the waste of such an office that spends an unsuspecting amount of money, etc. Well, the minister himself in the last debate reiterated here a few of his words as to why he felt that the office should be abolished, so among other things, he said that the office is already at the Ministry of Defence, which is incorrect. He is supported by the Ministry of Defence as well as some other ministries by law-based work. Let's say financial accounting, etc. Which the office can't handle on its own. So then they said he was bought some kind of jeep, and how unpopular it is to buy today some kind of car without any characteristics, then that was the reason why you should cancel that office. So it is said that they should be paid, that several hundred thousand kunas have already been paid, although the law clearly states that these members of the board of directors have the right to a monthly fee of 2000 kuna as well as all other members of other supervisory boards and boards of directors. So they've already somehow unearthed some money. So it was said that this office had no results. I have listed them today and I will repeat them again, only the most important ones, which are the exhumation of three sites, Krivic hill, Obernjak and Harmica near Zapresic, a total of 86 bodies with all 86 wires. So I'm still saying that this office continued to do nothing and it's not doing it to collect already existing data from the MUP, which is not true because some of the MIP's data, and the research that they've done on the basis of them, has shown that there's no cemetery at all in several places. So I say it continues to explain on the first draft of the law why this office needs to be abolished. And then comes the bill of law which, in its very name, absolutely moves aside the essence and extends some jurisdiction to something else that was not at all the basis of the establishment of that office. So we propose a law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. We amend the Proposal for a Law on research, arrangement and maintenance of military cemeteries, the cemetery of World War II and the postwar period. It's completely different from the basic intensity... we'll agree to that. Something else entirely. And that law unanimously passed here with consensus as predicted by resolutions, conventions and we now at the time of the advent, is today St. Nikola, congratulations to all Nicolas here in the Parliament name day, we're dealing with ideological topics. A recent defense register, today's military cemetery, I don't know what to do until Christmas. And then it turns out that the opposition imposes as we heard it today, we're the ones who must have wanted it, and that's the power just doing some rational things. We've already seen what it looks like, I say we've had a Commission on War and War Victims, she's discovered a famous mass grave on Macela with over 1100 victims. They're on their way to establish the i.e. There were several others, but in 2002 it was moved then imagine to the Ministry of Science and then nothing. I have already said that this law is against the European resolutions and declaration of the very House of this Croatian Parliament which has brought the same because they speak only of the victims of communist terror or crime. The victims of World War II have already been solved, and we've heard that, and that's what the bill says, through other laws of the '90s. This abolition of the office is an explicit opposition to the European Parliament's views which explicitly requires that the body investigating communist crimes cannot be an integral part of the political institutions and I have already listed today why this is a lack. We won't get the money we can get, which we need in view of the number of such cemeterys we're talking about, we can't activate civil society through a political body by establishing associations and a number of volunteers who would stop at the disposition to help in such a process. We cannot establish cooperation with international institutions because they do not recognise it as something that is legitimate, to co-operate on such issues with political institutions. But I say it's all kind of irrelevant because it says a few words, it's all great, it's all going to be good, and then some local self-government will get certain tasks, the state has secured 2 million kunas and the question of the truth that's been talked about here today, the question of war crimes, everything will be solved in a nice way. I don't believe that story because so far experience has shown that it just isn't. If we extend jurisdiction for the same money to another 5 years, to another tens or hundreds of areas where we can find some other victims that were not covered by this bill so far, but then it was possible to make a new proposal that would only apply to that part. What to mix now two laws or one so as to expand it all to simply undo those basics that he gave first or earlier. What about the people and how these people will address that officer at the Ministry of Defense, so if they have any trust in him. Those who are possible witnesses, who are still alive, and how to address them. Well, they don't trust those institutions at all. He doesn't know where his testimony will end, he doesn't know who to tell. If she says she's willing, she'll put herself in some kind of drawer, wait some other time and the story will end. I'd like someone to convince me that's not the case. However, experience has so far shown that this is impossible to work on from the political bodies or official authorities of the state. Because we are specific to that in relation to other European Union countries. They do not have such bodies within their political structures. But now comes a Croatian who wants to be part of the world and she says we will solve it through our political institutions, we will be independent through our political institutions. I think that, I say in the end, the question is even the point of talking about all of this in this way when the government doesn't want to listen, and in an explanation between the two readings in two months, it's only been able to accept one provision to submit a report to the Parliament, and all the other arguments that went in favour of the survival of this office that we still have today. I guess Monday we won't, she just keeps talking and won't listen to as much argument as we have. Which is, at all, the meaning of all of this when the government knows everything, and we here as people's representatives don't know, or we can't absolutely contribute to that government's better functioning, that I say listens to both people and to my people, and those sacrifices and that truth that we all talk about today are just part of that people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24830	Thank you very much. It's Comrade Zvonko Milas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24831	Thank you very much, Madam President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, before I say anything about a law that, given the number of MPs, obviously everything has already been said, I would like to say that I have no doubt at all that each of us and beyond. agrees with the fact that every person, therefore, has the right to a decent resting place. So it's a elemental, elemental humanity thing, I don't know civilizations, all that, humanity in short. However, listening to this debate about the law cannot, I cannot help but think that this is not the first law. So it's actually a fact that goes the way it goes. So I'm talking about a law that is currently in force. A law that, like another, was passed by consensus, that it would not be long after that, by the power of the majority, be changed or even changed to the end. I don't know what's going on and what's going on at the moment of the consensus, which is why we're in charge, which is what we're smarter in today, which is what this office did wrong, or not that we just didn't give it a chance to live and to show if it's worth it, whether its establishment, or its mission, is intended for a reason to exist or not. Here we heard, here we are, a moment ago in the presentation of fellow Boric. He listed the tax on what the office did, in which way, so maybe it makes sense. But what I was saying again, I'm going to say, obviously, that we can't literally do anything without politics. Now that I've said in the introduction that every victim must have, then the right to a decent resting place as soon as I say the word "sacrifice," I think that's why we have to forget about any policy. I won't say politicizing, so I won't be rude but to any influence of politics in solving this issue. But it's just that a man can't get the impression that this kind of change of law we want something or put aside or he can't slow down or something else. Because when we talk about the law of this type, in a way, or we discuss it, and we don't know from talking about the broken monuments of NOB, I don't know that we're talking about still fresh destruction of all the sacred things. So, I'm talking about the Homeland War, so I think you really need to think about it before that law is voted in this form and in this form. I have to be honest, the big one in the law doesn't change anything. The office is already in the ministry. It absolutely doesn't stand a team anymore, I repeat why the office as one that has shown what it will do, which some things it has done, detected, physically really did, why we don't just give it a chance, why we push some things that are called doubts in the whole story and I'll be all the way... Why do we share each other on two sides again? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know why we share with each other what we represent. I don't think that story leads anywhere. I won't say it's the goal, but it's definitely the law passed like this that won't do anything. It won't bring. We have hope today that those who have waited 70 years for it to happen to them don't know the Day of the Dead or any other day that they can set fire to a world they have no idea about, they don't know where they've been for 70 years. That's our intensity and that's what we're all talking about, but if we all wanted it that way, I think the law, the rule, the regulation, God, the father, anything that's already been passed, and that all those in charge of it without what's happening to us today would be acting on it. We've been talking for hours and hours and I'm saying, we're pulling politics into it, even ideology. We're polarizing what these people are saying, and I'm saying that they're going to benefit from some kind of pleasure, some satisfaction from what this law needs to be passed, which they're not interested in at all. They're probably wondering why this whole day's show is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24832	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's my colleague Josip Djakic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24833	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's this Final Proposal for the Law on Research, Planning and Maintenance of War II Cemeteries and Pores as well as Victims is certainly unnecessary because such a law exists. It only changes what is important for the request to move postmortem remains to the burden of the person requesting a transfer. If this law were not a politicised item in this debate, it would certainly not have been so quick to discuss, that it has an intensification of real discovery, marking and maintenance of graves and sites we can recognize even after discussions of the ruling coalition that they are not interested in this law at all. They are probably not so interested in detecting and marking what Europe has won, which Europe has adopted with its resolutions, which we as the Croatian Parliament have made clear in the declaration about the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes as well as the communist regime. If there was no politicization, I'm sure you wouldn't have lifted the office. The office would remain, the chairman of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board of the office, and thus resigned as Mr Hebrang was spoken of as a political person. Yes, I will tell the political person but also the competent person who is looking for his father who was also executed by the communist regime and ideology and opposition to such ideology. So, he was the most competent man who would continue to look, search and work to expose all crimes, and especially the one that was committed to his father. There was no reason to cancel the office although accepting that the report is delivered to the Croatian Parliament we will be able to control it, but a year is a big break because if it wasn't so it would have been presented and what has been done so far in the office. It would be said that three cemetery sites were discovered, it would be said that the number of victims, it would be said, how much money was spent, would be said to be missing and how much more so it would be done properly. There is no such thing in this proposal, nor in the preamble of this law. There's all about it, if at least the general provisions mentioned the office and how much his achievement over the past year and a half, I'd say let's go maybe. But while there really is, like a colleague, one has noticed the topics that should be discussed, that should save this all that is in the immersion from jobs to industrial production, to GDP, to economic recovery, progress we're dealing with, and I don't know why we're wasting our time. I was even thinking of giving up the debate, but I'm not giving up the right to anyone who wants to put something in a context where it doesn't belong. I find that an absolute place for this law, this office that passes to the Department of Defense there is no place. There are certainly best examples that only in two EU countries is such a practice, in Italy and Slovenia. Slovenia as a post-Communist and Italy has its own commissary for it. Slovenia which has not done anything boring to bring together other than a contract that was signed and not realized that the Huda Cave is marked, that these bones are numbered and that a true representation of how many people are confused in a pit of living or shot may be, I don't know. European practice is quite different from what we do. And on a number of occasions, we constantly defy Europe as well as the directives, as well as the supplementary protocols and everything that has been done we are already inventing and cannot reconcile with doing so in the interest of dignity and piety towards these victims, that we are doing so in the interest of truth and justice. I'd rather conclude that we're doing it to make that truth the way it was. And I'm going to argue with the fact that no one has ever been responsible for communist crimes before. No living or even those as I pointed out who boasted both Fumic and Rade Bulat in the Evening List made it clear in 2002 that we killed the gang and we have no one to answer to. Although this law does not speak of responsibility, these are things that remind us of that truth that is in us, with us, who live and who will never be the goal of righteousness unless we make it known. Truth and only truth can be the way to forgiveness, to piety, to reality. Any innocent victim who has suffered both in the war and after the war that someone has dared to convict without a court must be... at least with those available perpetrators to answer for their actions, no matter how guilty or right they are today. When we speak and see today and the pictures and the depictions of the monuments of the anti-fascist struggle that have been torn down, mined or killed, they too should be restored. But we also build new monuments for some of the uprisings while in the same places there are those who have no monuments, those who are innocent as pilgrims who have died and are not marked to this day. Just because they were Croats and Catholics who went on pilgrimage, they were struck by a fate that was not enlightened to this day and not marked. Their victims, along with the priests, also seek the dignity of piety but also the truth. Only truth can bring reconciliation to forgiveness for true life in these areas that so far have one truth, partisan and communist justice, while real Croatian democratic justice still does not exist. And that righteousness will not be encouraged or improved by this law either. I will apologize to all those who are proposing to both the Government and the Minister if anything is done better in the next period in one year when the report will come to this Parliament. But I think given the means that are assured that no significant shifts will be made. It will be placed as it was in 2002 when the government of Ivica Racan disbanded the commission and when nothing happened and worked in the follow-up. History repeats itself in the interest of someone or something. I'm afraid to say, but it's like repeating ideological aspirations to hide reality and running away from the truth. I wish it wasn't, I wish it were different, and I wish we could face the real truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24834	Thank you very much. And last in a debate with counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24835	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, obviously, the material's tired. There's no more replicas for discussion, so here's to saying my word as the last speaker on this subject. The 2009 EU resolution on totalitarianism said "the official political interpretations of historical facts should not be imposed through the majority decisions of parliament because parliament cannot make laws on the past". Unfortunately, by this legal proposal to explore and find a cemetery and mark a cemetery with post-mortem remains of communism, it is directly located in politics at the very heart of politics at the Ministry of Defence, which is clearly in the form of an executive authority. And it is clear that this parliamentary majority will vote against the EU parliament resolution tomorrow. Are we Europeans especially you on this side, or are you Europeans, and you're going to Europe? Of course this will cause such a decision will likely cause reactions in the EU to both the parliament and the EU commission. I'm not afraid of you with that, but clearly this thing is going to echo and spread than I do with the Pupovec alone, and I don't know who. What exactly is going on here today? It happens but it's a little bit more wrapped than it did in 2002 when it's so-called. The victims' identification committee moved you know where? The Ministry of Science. This time it is not a commission but a Croatian name is a commission which is about the same meaning of the word, synonym, moved to the Ministry of Defence. I don't want to talk about human resources within the office that exists and is being abolished. It could be anyone but who's qualified, I'd say, I'd say, a place in the workplace at the Bureau of Research, discovering, marking the cemetery of military cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of work without any ideological omen. However, since I have already mentioned the cemetery, I am concerned that the new law will not actually be involved in investigating the victims of communism but rather in investigating all the victims of World War II. Let him deal with it, but are we aware that in the 60 years of communism in the Republic of Croatia and within the former state of Yugoslavia, the cemetery and victims of fascist terror have been largely investigated. There have been enough years and resources to investigate the victims of fascist terror enough and we have them. We've got this cemetery, and we've got a monument that showed the Pupovac. Individuals, vandals, I don't know who, so at the end of the day, let him file criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator who did it. That didn't say 4 million Croats with one hand, someone wrote it with one hand, so an individual, if it devastated the monument. Just as in Bor's village on the monument of our officers there's a SSS etc. That Pupovac doesn't show a photo, and he could, and he could have been in Vukovar last 18 months with us in a memory column. No, he doesn't think about it. He says they told him not to come to Skabrnj, but it was 2004, today it's 2012. I didn't get a chance to tell him. And the fact that someone is offended that I can't show the photographs of the monuments that were killed in the Boriscans because there isn't one, so there's any monument to those he showed in the photographs of Mr. Pupovac, but the monuments to those in Borčevac are gone. In the iron-hero scene of Croatian history, which we do not know about, we did not even mark that Ferhat Pasha in 1578 found 300 Croatian soldiers frozen and did not surrender the town of Grozdanjsko. Frozen because it was winter, and they wouldn't open the gate and surrender even though they had great conditions to surrender. We do not know, we Croats forget our history. And then these cemeterys and sites of the Croatian people must be marked and there is no one right here to lecture us about not marking our cemetery, at least the dead deserve it, and... the right to judge otherwise. And as many as there are, three is just this office for the past year and a half, so that it works... a hundred years has work to do, unfortunately. I'm afraid to say so. And that's what they used to talk about. We have our children growing up. If they do not know their history, they will find it difficult to build their future and will find it difficult to recognize the future of their people and their countries. If they do not visit the site of Croatian battlefields through excursions, we will find it difficult to teach them what the Croatian State is and what place it is here in this part of Europe and in the world. And because banning it, which political option doesn't answer for the victims of communism to be said in the name of this law. Who died after the '45s, and whoever brought him in or killed him didn't have a five-point star on his hat. What kind of sign he had on his hat after '45, what kind of mark he had. Here's Mr. Pupovac talking about a five-pointer. Well, my people seem to have forgotten everything here and then we're saying that, and I'm thank God, really, it's true. But the dead, as I said, open the dead's eyes, and if we don't know who's dead, how will we open our eyes? So we forget our dead, we keep quiet about him, we shouldn't have spoken for 60 years, but it looks like we have to keep quiet about them these 20 years. So as long as they remain silent, until all those who are witnesses of the Martyrs of the Croatian people die. And we're discussing here, I'm not going to say reconciliation, thank God, reconciliation is what's the goal of all of us here, I wish someone else didn't pray to God when it rains in Kragujevac, not here. Let them pray to God if it rains here and we and them, it would be the right thing to do, it's reconciliation. But let's just say, I know where my grandfather and my uncle are if there's even a grave because he was dumped in Neretva they say, killed in Mostar and dumped in Neretva in '45, when he was 20, a child. We're talking about the difference between my age and his. That is why this law, which in secret a little, quietly, wants to delay very wisely what I was talking about, about writing Croatian history, does not change Croatian history, but rather the writing of Croatian sufferings and the sufferings of Croatian people, the marking of the cemeteries that we find, cannot be accepted. You can't treat Croatian history and Croatian people like we do with the place, the village of Gvozdanski that no longer exists on the historical map, there are only two grandmothers living in one house, and in which Nikola Ozegovic was the captain of Croatia by refusing to hand over to the Iron Turks and no one knows it,... the entire crew of military frosts. And Ferhat Pasha honored the team and said bury them according to Catholic customs. And as Croats to our citizens, we don't give our people peace in graves. So let's write them names once. They don't need any marks, no markings need to be ideological, but let's write names, make a monument, mark that place where they were killed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24836	Thank you very much. Lastly, on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Defence Minister Mrs Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24837	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. The final proposal for a law on research and arrangement and maintenance of military cemeterys, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the postwar period has kept further advanced research, editing and maintenance of cemeteries and graves of post-war victims covered by the 2011 law. Not one article of the law relating to the victims of the postwar period has been abolished. The law has been developed, promoted to ensure that it is fully implemented. Only those parts of the law relating to an office established by that law and the bodies of the office have been subject to the amendments. I note that the 2011 law states in Article 6 that the execution of the obligation to find, arrange, mark the graves of communist victims, and the keeping of the eyewitnesses of the location of graves and the number of victims is taken over by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the obligation to maintain graves is assumed by the county and the city of Zagreb. It should also be stressed that this bill provides for the establishment of a commission instead of an existing Governing Council as an advisory government of the Republic of Croatia whose work is public. Participation in the commission with representatives of the competent state authorities provided for institutions, organisations, religious institutions and others dealing with issues under this law. I note that the defence minister at the stand held in connection with the debate of the law has urged all members of the board to participate in the commission's work. We particularly point out that today's investigation of crime, including communist crimes, is in the jurisdiction of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia and not of the Office for the finding, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, and therefore unfounded doubts are that part of the public is seeking to prevent the investigation of communist crimes. The only thing we want to achieve by this law is for the Republic of Croatia, as an orderly democratic state, to assume in a systematic and transparent manner the execution of obligations, research, order of graves victims of the post-war period and keeping records of the location and number of victims in them, and the treatment of the remains of the victims of the Second World War and the victims of the post-war period and their decent disposal, and of the worthy maintenance of the military cemetery, the cemetery of the victims of the Second World War and the victims of the post-war period in accordance with the provisions of this law. We believe that trusting in the exercise of this law to the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for defenders is the most rational solution from the aspect of work processes, human and financial resources. Since 2003, the Department of Detained and Missing, which is part of the Ministry of Defence, has shown that he knows and that he can do these entrusted tasks, and in that sense we see and manage the Macelic victims and other exhumations of post-mortem remains. Transferring responsibilities for the permanent maintenance of the cemetery of victims of World War II and postwar period to units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb we provide permanent care for these cemeteries as cemeteries are communal facilities owned by units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb in which they are located under the applicable Law on Cemeteries. And now the Law on the Marking and Maintenance of Cemeteries and Graves of the Dead and Dead... Members of foreign armed forces, political prisoners of war in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the First and Second World War of '92. in the article of the second and third terms, the competent authorities in the units of local self-government will mark and maintain the cemeteries and graves of members of foreign armed forces under conditions and in the manner prescribed by the Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that the units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb will not be additionally fiscally burdened, and they can benefit from certain financial benefits, for example when there is a transfer of post-war victims to the state signatories of the contract, it is possible to withdraw funds from EU funds or declare the cemetery cultural goods, which is then additionally funded by the Ministry of Culture. And in the end, I would like to thank all the MPs and deputies in this debate. We don't think this is the end of a communist crime investigation. This is the beginning of the investigation of the crimes of all totalitarian regimes during World War II and the postwar period which this High House, the Croatian Parliament and will be convinced after a year when it discusses the report of the Committee on Research and Management and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of World War II and the postwar period. If the office has explored 86 bodies from the cemetery we think we can do better, we can do more and we'll show it in a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24838	Thank you very much. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24839	Madam Deputy Minister, you're saying something in this final word of yours that asked me to report for the replica, which is that the judicial authorities will lead as you said or the State's Attorney's Office processes in connection with the crimes of the communist regime, not this office. Is that exactly what you said?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24840	My colleague Grubisic, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24841	So, I repeat. Madam Deputy Minister, as far as I've heard from you here and understood you pointed out in your closing statement that for processing and for disclosing, but the procession above all, and then it's related to the discovery of victims of communist crimes is the competent judiciary of the Republic of Croatia, I guess the State's Attorney's Office or whatever, that this commission has nothing to do with it. That's why more, that actually these doubts I've expressed for and reasons why we wouldn't vote for this law are being completed by this statement of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24842	Replica reply, Deputy Minister Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24843	Turns out the prosecution of a crime means the perpetrator's criminal responsibility is within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24844	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24845	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of the Military Cemetery, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the postwar period, the Second Reading, PZ No. 148. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the SDSS Representatives' Club. I'd like a representative of the motionary respected Deputy Secretary of Defense, the respected Vesna Nadj, to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24846	Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24847	Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24848	Amendment No. 1 The Government shall not accept, with reasons, the provision of Article 1. The final proposal of the Law on the Research, Editing and Maintaining of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the post-war period of its entire statement directs the further text of the law in terms of special pitetate to innocent civilian victims and the proposed amendment of the order of words does not give any other special pitet to innocent civil war victims, given that particular pitet has already been given to the same article and to the same articles of the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24849	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24850	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister. I must admit that I am very surprised by your rejection of our amendment and by the fact that you do not want civilian war victims to be first, and then to be the military victims of the war in second place. I don't understand logic, or if I understand the logic that the legislator is proposing, then that's not a good logic. The SDSS Club will not be able to support this law under these circumstances. And I think it's of paramount importance that we have agreement on this law. But if you don't want it then let it be on your soul and political responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24851	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24852	It won't do any good, but I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24853	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the proposed amendment of the SDSS Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24854	Amendment No. 2 The government does not accept with reason, text but is not... The final proposal of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the post-war period shall not be given... after a period of war but all victims to whom the entire text of this final proposal of the Law is applied shall be treated equally in terms of a worthy permanent maintenance of the cemetery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existence of public interest is important for the transfer and decent disposal of post-war remains both victims of the 2nd World War and victims of the post-war period, and there is no advantage for the victims of the post-war period and the public interest will always determine and appreciate the public body responsible for the implementation of this law, without the primary public awareness of those who have torn down monuments from the 2nd World War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24855	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Proposer Milorad Pupovac, the Honorable Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24856	Your proposal to which we have tabled the amendment gives priority to the victims of the postwar period compared to the victims of World War II, which you believe should be in line with public interest. The status of the monument to the victims of the 2nd World War in Croatia in the last 20 years shows what the state of this public interest is, and this state of public interest is disastrous and humiliating for the victims of the 2nd World War. Although there is no use in my request to ask for a vote such as no great benefit to my demands that this state of public interest be changed, I demand the vote of Madam Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24857	Thank you very much. I would like to make a nice statement about the amendment of the SDSS's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. Three of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24858	Amendment No. 3 The Government shall not accept, with reasons, the definitions referred to in Article 2(1). The final proposal of the Law on the Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims of World War II and the post-war period are notional definitions and contain all the necessary characteristics to identify each defined concept and are comprehensive and clear in terms of easier application of the law, which is why there is no need to amend it. There is also no need to separate the concepts and definitions of the victims of World War II into war and civil because these concepts refer only to the needs of this law aimed at editing and maintaining cemeteries, both military and civilian victims of World War II.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24859	Thank you very much. I'd like a representative of the proposer, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac, to be made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24860	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister, you are quite persistent in refusing what this law can improve, but this clearly shows that the intensity of this law is not to really ensure respect for the victims of war in line with what are the facts. Civil war victims, military war victims and postwar victims should be separated. If your intensity is to put all of this into one, then produce a certain ideology and a certain interpretation for which you will certainly bear responsibility. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24861	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a statement on Amendment number three of the SDSS Representatives Clubs that the government doesn't accept? Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 4. I'm asking for a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24862	Amendment number 4 The Government does not accept with the following explanation. Maintaining the mention of the World War II areas is not foreseen by this law and maintaining the mention of the areas that emerged from World War II provided for by a special law on the memory of the area, e.g. The law on the mention of the Jasenovac area and there is no need to regulate the issue of maintaining the World War II area.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24863	I'd like a representative of the representative of the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac, to be made manifest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24864	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. My attempts at yesterday's debate to make arguments as to why it is necessary to treat monuments and mention areas from World War II were obviously in vain, as was a vain attempt by representatives of the Jewish and Serb minorities to the Pag where the camp in Slano and Matej's layout plate was to remember those who were killed there in the most beastly way possible. You do not, of course, consider it necessary to respect such a request, may it also be an honor to you, and I call for another unsuccessful vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24865	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number four of the same club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5 of the same Club of Representatives of the SDSS in the Croatian Parliament. I ask the Government's representative to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24866	Amendment number 5 The government does not accept with the following explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law on research, regulation and maintenance of military cemetery, the cemetery of victims of World War II and the post-war period enables the appointment of members of a commission from NGOs as well as representatives of national minorities directly interested in implementing this law and there is no need to change the text of this paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24867	I ask the representative of the SDSS's proposed representative, Milorad Pupovac, to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24868	Madam Deputy Minister, if by any chance you had accepted this amendment I would have thanked you and I would have told you not to accept it because there is no assumption that we are involved. So you have consistently rejected the amendments and created assumptions that you reject any cooperation by representatives of minority communities in this job the law provides for. Once again on our own responsibility, but unfortunately also on the government's responsibility that we support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24869	Are you asking for a vote? I'd like to ask him to come forward with an amendment number five to the same club of MPs the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 78 votes in favour and 37 votes against the passed Law on research, order and maintenance of military cemeteries, the cemetery of the victims of World War II and the postwar period in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24870	and now we move to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the multiannual operational programme "Development of Human Potentials" to assist the Community in pre-accession assistance instruments under the "Development of Human Potentials" component in Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 218. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Deputy Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Mr. Jaksa Puljiz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24871	Honorable vice presidents, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here is the proposal for a Law on Confirming Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement for the Multiannual Operational Programme "The Development of Human Potentials". In fact, what is the essence of this whole legislative change? The essence is an extension of the duration of the operational programme of human potential development. On 1 August 2012, the European Commission adopted amendments and additions to the operational Programme for the Development of Human Potentials extending the duration of this programme to the period 2007-2013 with effect from 30 June. In fact, the time before the end of 2011. In addition, certain amendments and additions to the operational programme have been included in a way that includes new priority axes aimed at strengthening the role of civil society for better governance. The total value of the Operational Programme Human Resources Development 2007-2013 amounts to 826 million kuna, i.e. 111 million euros, of which the European Commission provides grants of €702 million through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, i.e. €94 million, representing 85% of the value of the operational programme, while financial resources from the Croatian side amounting to €123 million, equivalent to €16.6 million, and 15% of the value of the operational programme is provided in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Office of Associations. The resources necessary for the implementation of the IPA operational programme for the current 2012 are provided at the positions of all competent authorities as well as in the 2013 budget. The draft law in question is in line with, of course, all relevant authorities of the state administration. The Ministry of Finance was shown in addition to the decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the amendment and the addition of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Finance Agreement and did not consider it necessary to repeat the whole procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24872	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. We don't have clubs either. Then we move on to an individual debate. Is there? I'm sorry. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I would say that I find it interesting that the subject and the documents that are said to be one of the species is therefore the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, so one of the options is not too much to discuss. I don't know why that is, whether we're all clear or maybe it's something else, but good. Amendments, therefore, to the Agreement on financing in the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Potentials, namely an operational programme belonging to the same fourth component of the IPA programme, which contains an extremely important component of employment policy, but a component for which relatively low resources are allocated, therefore a small level of aid. We must then talk about the priorities of this programme, which are essentially based on education programmes, and yet which should help in the greater employability of the staff. For concrete effects it is important to combine, choose a strategy or achieve synergy between this programme, so components and other components of IPA mostly here think of the component of regional development, more specifically the Operational Programme for Regional Competitiveness. Something about this is stated on pages 162 and 163 at the principle level is expressed in future, so perhaps you should see what has happened in this matter. I don't think it's directed to the Republic of Croatia just to educate a workforce that won't be able to be employed anywhere after that, so it's going to be forced to leave the country, to look for a job somewhere else as a school staff, but rather to work on concrete employment plans for the same staff. There, too, could be applied some concrete plans of the type of analysis of deficits, the need for them at specific locations, certain organisations and adapting education to this. So concrete networking and integration of all these factors. In this programme or amending the agreement, it all comes down to two basic factors, namely the change in the financial plan and the change in the percentage of EU contribution to pre-financing payments, and changes in the structure of the implementation of the programme. As far as the change in the financial plan is concerned, I think it would be useful to explain how it happened, so there are changes to the cost of the programme. In fact, from 82m euros in the initial version of the agreement, we came to 111 which is, of course, acceptable and welcome, but for the debate, it might be useful to explain to us how these changes occurred except that we have tables with financial projections. As regards changes in the structure, they are understandable given that the Government has adopted changes on public administration and it is now clear which current institutional structure is in charge of this programme. Once these changes have already been made, it may be useful to update information on the text of the programme itself, in particular Chapters 1 and 2. Namely, the data refer to the state until the maximum end of 2010. The previous government's moves are being discussed, and since it is already the end of 2012 it might be good to update the offered data on demographic indicators of employment and unemployment to civil society, etc. Another note about the structure. It is clear that the implementation of cohesion policy will require a certain institutional structure in the public administration, therefore, of a country benefiting from the funds. This framework requires the creation of an effective coordination mechanism between public administration bodies and the involvement and consultation of a number of partner organisations in the preparation and implementation of the programme. It would be logical and it is likely that in Croatia the institutional structure of the IPA programme develops into the management structure of the structural funds. And accordingly, this is of direct importance in order not to change the set structure frequently but rather to work on their improvement, which will show the maturity of the administration. For the end of what I said in the introduction, I must point out that it is quite ungrateful about such documents extremely important for the Republic of Croatia to discuss or give them to us for such a short period of time. So they are complex, they are very difficult for representatives who do not deal with structural funds or projects, and I understand that they insist on urgency since it is necessary to respond as quickly as possible to the withdrawal of funds, but it turns out that this urgency is always being broken on parliamentary representatives. It's always us who need to do something urgent to get rid of something urgent. I think we're just starting to serve here to do some work, not to say something or to give a suggestion or something that might help the information itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24874	Thank you very much. An important exposure caused two replicas. She's the first of those distinguished MPs, Miss Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24875	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, Milas, in my replica, I just want to join your debate in the way you spoke in hiring through regional development. I wanted to say something about rural development, and also about this IPA program. IPA has therefore replaced the CARDS, PHARE and SAPARD programmes so far, and rural development projects are also going through these programmes. It is a component that provides real support to Croatia in developing rural development policy and preparing for the implementation and management of the common agricultural policy. In fact, I don't have much time to talk about rural development here, but what happened through this budget is that reduction by 40% of the budgets that are intended for agriculture and rural development as well. So we won't even be able to open our envelopes through our national means to the end and we know what that means. It is namely the opening of jobs in agriculture. In agriculture, we can say that in Croatia, the most employment is in real terms because if we look at 500 thousand people only if we take from the number of members of the OPG households that are registered is included in the production of food and agricultural products, and if they are taken through the budget, then it will be very difficult to increase the number of employees in this way and through these programmes there will be no possibility at all of opening new jobs or... neither of self-employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24876	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24877	The twilight colleagues may agree with your replica, but what I said was definitely necessary to educate the workforce in order to better master the tools but definitely to connect with the component of regional development, such as environmental protection, transport and infrastructure, so this is the cohesion from which jobs will be created. But just educate by saying and not having the possibility of hiring won't be the happiest solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24878	Thank you. The second is the replica of that distinguished representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've offered me a replica in that part of your area where you've been saying there's no systematic connection, and I agree completely with you, it's not in line with that education system with the employment system, and I think that regardless of all these huge funds that we're getting that maybe we're not spending it well. We have strategies that we are trying to implement, but the fact is that we lack the vision and the goal that we really want, and every day we face it more and more. Unfortunately, the data is discouraging in the part where more and more young highly educated people are at the Employment Service and the Employment Office is one of, if not the key and the one responsible for these programs. So these people we want to hire first, we have to decide how we're going to look at them. We can view man as a cost, as a resource, as a potential and as a capital. So if we look at this man as some potential, then it would be very important that we finally use that potential to say so that he could create a new value. Then it would be this real investment, and then all these assets could be said to be used in the right way and used as such. However, no matter how we look at it, I don't think we have any very successful results here, and what it says also states is that this symbiosis should be made from the public service to the local community, which is very important because I think the local community must also be the bearer of these programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24880	Thank you very much. Representative Zvonko Milas will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, I think I understood what you said and that I can agree with you. So I'm not sure about the vision, but I think the goal is clear, so we have a goal if we're talking about employment, it's opening up as many jobs as possible, and that's why we need concrete plans, which is why we need analysis. We need to see the job deficit that we need, so also the location where these occupations could be used, in which organizations and education can adapt to these plans to ultimately come to what I think we know our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24882	Thank you very much. Now, our view of this bill will be presented by the honourable representative Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24883	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. First of all, I support the Croatian Parliament's adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement, so for the development of IPA, for the development of human potentials. I believe that this is an extremely important segment of the activities of Croatian membership preparation, which is directly linked to perhaps one of the most important problems of Croatian society, which is the problem of unemployment. Of course, your ministry is not responsible for the content segment of the implementation of this aspect of IPA and somehow in all of this material that you have given us, perhaps, is missing at least one preliminary evaluation of the activities that have been carried out so far. We are now technically changing the standard way of contract so that we can implement the project in the next few years, including the first year of membership, which is certainly good for Croatia, but it seems that given the very important aspect of strengthening and inclusion and social cohesion and preparation for the European Social Fund, which is essentially behind component 4 of the IPA, it would be good that in the Croatian Parliament sometimes a little more detailed debate and effects of all these years and all efforts when it comes to programmes and projects, because this could emancipate the positive aspects of the European Union. This is very important in the months ahead of us so I ask you that when you talk to the resolutions... because of the transformation of the work of certain ministries here, and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Science, Education and HZZ and, of course, very important and essential engagements and offices for associations, as well as civil society in general. This segment I think should be highlighted, that it should be an important part of the use of programmes and projects in the future and I appeal to the Ministry to find one form that might be a little more profiled than that overall six-month report when we have a really large number of very diverse activities on the table in the use of pre-accession funds and there is no expression of each component in particular. And given the problems of today in Croatian society, I think you should focus much more than you can see now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24884	Thank you very much. The final presentation on behalf of the applicant will be held by Dr Jaksa Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24885	Here, I'll take a quick look around. You have indeed said, this is about technical change, so the change that first allows us to continue using IPA funds, allocation for 2012 and the first half of 2013. In this sense, this is indeed one technical prerequisite only that we can use these funds and that is also why the funds are increasing. Simply because there is an increase in the period of use and according to our annual allocations that we have available from IPA, part of the means for individual components is increased in the case of IPA component 4. As regards the evaluation of the effects or results, so you probably also know that evaluation is an integral part of the complete process of using the EU fund, so Croatia is obliged to carry out regular evaluations and different evaluations, from evaluations at the beginning of the preparation of operational programmes, and these operational programmes are key programming documents on which we use EU funds to so-called funds. evaluation during the implementation of the programme until the evaluation of ex post, i.e. after the implementation of the programme. The Ministry of Regional Development as a coordinating body and indeed we are not the competent authority for the field of the labour and employment market, but as a coordinating body among other things, co-ordinates and evaluations, so the evaluation process and we, as we are obliged to do all the necessary actions as we have done so far. So so far, the evaluations of programming documents have been done, and what's coming to us now is to make so-called. The medium-term evaluation of the implementation of operational programmes and this operational programme of human potential development will be evaluated after which we will indeed have one quality basis to discuss the effects. Until then, six months of reports give us a specific framework so that we can comment on the results, and after we have the evaluation reports, then we will get an even more comprehensive and more content picture of what we have actually achieved with the use of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24886	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24887	Final Proposal for a Law on Confirming Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potential for Community assistance in pre-accession assistance instruments under the Human Resources Development Component in Croatia, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 218. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 116 votes in favour, we have passed the Law on Confirming Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission amending the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a multiannual operational programme for the development of human potential for Community assistance from pre-accession assistance instruments within the human potential development component in Croatia, in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24888	Now we'd like to have a united debate on the next two points. These are - The proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Peace Operation in Kosovo (KFOR) - The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" is united. The proposer of both proposals is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In the case of decision-making, the provisions for long-reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Their reports received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms. Vishnja Tafra, Deputy Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are the distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, before you a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's 2013 peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, and it represents a continuation of our action in support of wider international efforts to build peace and stability. The Republic of Croatia continues to strongly support NATO's efforts to maintain security in Kosovo. Operation KFOR is important to establish sustainable stability and security in the wider Southeastern Europe region, making it a permanent priority for the Republic of Croatia with the position of national security. Turbulent developments in northern Kosovo unfortunately confirm that KFOR forces remain a guarantee of security and stability on the ground, and the engagement of our Armed Forces within this operation in the coming period remains of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Currently in this operation is our 11th contingent with 19 members and two Croatian Air Force helicopters. Since 2008 since our participation in this operation, 221 members and 9 women have participated. According to the operational plan, operations of the Croatian contingent's tasks remain the same, which means air transport of people and goods, as well as staff work. In this context, we propose to make a new decision of the Croatian Parliament for 2013 in which up to 25 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia would be approved in the peacekeeping operation KFOR with two Croatian Air Force helicopters and an anti-aircraft defence with the possibility of a rotation that generally lasts from 4 to 5 months. The financial resources for the implementation of this Decision are secured in the state budget at the 2013 Department of Defence's division and amount to around 24 million kuna at the annual level. So I suggest you support this proposal. The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU peace operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA". The Republic of Croatia intends to continue to strongly support common objectives with the European Union in the operation, and this participation confirms the strategic objective of membership in the European Union and contributes to crisis management capabilities. This operation is part of the EU's comprehensive approach to the Horn of Africa, the EU's political objectives, and thus the Republic of Croatia are not only to prevent and deter pirates from interrupting global maritime trade, but also to contribute to a sustainable solution to the prevention of piracy through the building of capacity and capacity of states, including Somalia, in order to successfully take responsibility for the fight against piracy. The continuation of participation in this peace operation is in line with the intention of the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union for action in joint operations, disarmament, humanitarian tasks and rescue tasks, conflict prevention. At present, five of our officers are involved in this peace operation, and this is one commanding officer in the operations in Northwood, the United Kingdom. Three are boarded on warships of Germany, Italy and Belgium, one is located at a German naval base in Gibuti. Since 2009, 17 of our members and one of them have been involved in this operation. We propose to make a decision of the Croatian Parliament for 2013 which would include raising restrictions in participation from five to 20 members of the Armed Forces so far, with the possibility of a rotation of four to eight months. This would provide a framework for strengthening, i.e. modifying Croatian contribution in line with the needs of the operation and the EU's comprehensive efforts to combat piracy. Making this decision respecting the need to increase the number of members of the Armed Forces in this peacekeeping operation would ensure the continuity of the visible engagement of the Republic of Croatia within the framework of the operation, and additional credibility in the profiling of the Republic of Croatia as a reliable partner who wants to contribute to strengthening the EU's capacity to manage crises. By participating in the operation, we also confirm the maritime tradition, identity, and interest that the Republic of Croatia has in preserving trade routes as a maritime country, and is also profiled as a reliable partner who can meet security challenges and strengthen its political and military credibility. The financial resources for the implementation of the decision are also secured in the state budget at the division of the Ministry of Defence for 2013 and at an annual level of around 2 and a half million kuna. I therefore suggest you support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24890	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, you mentioned that today KFOR is the cornerstone of security in Kosovo and Croatia by participating in the NATO mission indeed contributes to security both in Kosovo and otherwise in Southeast Europe. I would just like to remind myself of how demanding this mission is and includes certain of the risks, especially when we consider the situation and the latest of these Hague rulings concerning former Prime Minister Haradinaj, and of course those Generals Gotovina and Markac. Well, we had some similar situations when our helicopters were shot in northern Kosovo and then the Ministry of Defence brought all the appropriate measures that I think is important for the Croatian public to see that when you have the opportunity to explain exactly what the Ministry of Defence is doing now because, of course, with the contribution that our soldiers give peace in Kosovo, it is important to ensure their safety as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24892	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we go to clubs. The first will be the SDP club and this is a shared debate between distinguished representatives Sandra Petrovic and Dunje Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. The SDP Club will support the proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Peace Operation in Kosovo, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces in the parliamentary procedure. A peacekeeping mission in Kosovo was established in 1999 by a resolution, in the region of the well-known Security Council Resolution and the UN No. 1244. So, after the situation in Kosovo was assessed safe enough in 2009 to allow a decision on the gradual withdrawal of troops to begin its gradual withdrawal that was due to take place in 3 stages. The two phases are currently under way, and the assessment is that the security situation is still not stable enough to move to phase three. Currently in Kosovo there are 5565 members of this peacekeeping mission, of which is a member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia 26, while, for example, it is members of the military forces from Germany 1249, Italy 574, U.S.A. 760, Austria 542, while the United Kingdom has 2, and Norway has 3 members of the Armed Forces. Since the commanders of this peacekeeping mission have been mostly from Germany and Italy in recent years, this is understandable given the number of members these NATO member states are referring to in this peacekeeping mission. The KFOR mission aims to contribute to maintaining a safe and stable environment as it stands in the UN Resolution, and in the implementation of this NATO mission it co-operates and assists the UN, the EU and other international bodies and organisations. Also, what is important to highlight for the Republic of Croatia and its tasks and objectives as a member of NATO and thus Croatia contributes to establishing sustainable stability and security in the wider region of Southeast Europe. Croatia has also been involved in KFOR operations since 2008 through which 221 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, of which 9 women. Since the 2013 budget at the Ministry of Defence has also reserved and secured funds for participation in this peacekeeping mission, as well as taking into account the fact that the reduction and withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan leaves more space for participation in other peacekeeping missions where the engagement of NATO and members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is also needed, which in the end explains why the reduction of funds in the position of the international peace mission of the SDP club will support the decision to send 25 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and 2 Croatian Air Force helicopters and anti-aircraft defence and their participation in this peacekeeping mission. I'll stop arguing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24894	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24895	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. The pirates are therefore not seductive male stars of Hollywood's highly-produced successes. The name pirates unfortunately includes all persons who commit violence at sea, traffic routes and the sea coast without authority and for their own account and out of profit. And here I underline the word violence as a key part of the definition of piracy. What's this about Croatia? Thanks to globalisation, maritime transport is on a steady rise. Attacked ships carrying oil or food on strategic waterways from the Middle East to Asia in an area extremely suitable for a hidden attack have long been only a local problem. By increasing the number, i.e. by escalating and expanding the area of pirate attacks since 2008 piracy has become an international problem and a threat to international security. So now the area of pirate attacks covers the entire Gulf of Aden and the eastern part of the Indian Ocean, so the area where the most important water routes pass, about 20% of the world's trade in strategic raw materials. Only last year, 35 sailors died in pirate attacks or during captivity, and the financial damage caused by pirates each year is estimated at about $7 billion. The UN Security Council therefore characterised piracy as a threat to world peace. Piratery in the Somali waters or waters of the Gulf of Aden is the result of the severe economic situation of a large number of unemployed, government failure due to civil war, corrupt government officials associated with pirate leaders. Operation Atalanta was launched in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 2008 to primarily protect ships carrying food to Somalia. On 10 November 2008, a decision was taken on the implementation of the Peace Operation. The decision defines the mandate of the EU Peace Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta, which includes the protection of ships under the flag of the World Food Programme, including the presence of members of the operation on board ships, mainly when they sail the territorial waters of Somalia, the protection of commercial vessels that sail in the area of operation, the surveillance of the coastal area of Somalia, including territorial waters in which there are risks to maritime activities, in particular transport, the taking of necessary steps including the use of force, deterring, preventing intervention to end acts of piracy and armed robbery in the field of operation. Any luck? As early as 2009 the number of pirate attacks was lower by 19%, no more attacks on ships carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia were reported, and many merchant ships accompanied by European Navy warships must have sailed the Aden Bay without harm. More pirates were caught and handed over to the authorities for further action. EU peacekeeping operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta has contributed to the preservation of the freedom of navigation several thousand miles away from Europe in the waters of the Aden Bay between Somalia, Gibuti and Yemen, reducing the number of attacks on armed ships, military forces, their very presence already deters pirates. By decision of the EU Council of 23 March 2012, the mandate of the pension operation was extended until December 2014. And is that Croatia again? Absolutely. For participation in the EU Peace Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta, the Republic of Croatia has at least three important reasons. First, EU membership, second, confirms its own tradition and identity as a maritime country, third, political and military credibility. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are participating in the EU Peace Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta starting in 2009. Now with five members of the armed forces, and this decision would increase the number of members of the armed forces from five to 20 in 2013. Thus Croatia is profiled as a reliable European and world partner that builds world peace and strengthens the EU's ability to manage crises. The SDP club supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24896	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, we will be told something by the distinguished representative Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24897	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Professor. Reiner. Dear Deputy Minister. A few comments from the HDZ Club on two proposals ahead of us today. The first to refer to the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, so KFOR, for a number of years now Croatia and now for the past few years as a NATO member but otherwise supports all efforts related to stability and peace in JI Europe, it is certainly Croatia's important foreign policy priority and the engagement of the Croatian forces in Kosovo shows effectively in several rotations already. I had a chance about a year ago and a few days ago at the time of visiting the then Prime Minister of Kosovo and to personally see and visit our soldiers. The KFOR commanders are very pleased with their engagement, with a professional approach, which really shows that Croatia as a country that was formerly a recipient of security, unfortunately we all know very well, has become a constructive member and international community but also these two key UN organisations, I mean the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the EU, and our contribution is highly appreciated. We will, of course, support this bill. We believe the political situation in Kosovo is very complex. It remains one of those open issues in the region. Croatia as a country that has shown very early and quite clearly its political stance with Kosovo's recognition will do its utmost to ensure that KFOR's mission is particularly sensitive given Kosovo's north and relations between Kosovo and Serbia are in some way the one that will facilitate relations between Belgrade and Pristina. When it comes to the second bill, therefore, the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU of Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta seems very important to me. The first is that it is one of the missions that the EU has been implementing its own European security strategy in the area of Africa, which has become one of the main sites of the EU's international engagement over the past ten years. We'll be a member in just seven months. And so far we have shown a very high level of engagement in operations both military and police and judicial character of the European Union, this is also a contribution to the foreign policy positioning of the Republic of Croatia. This operation focused primarily on the fight against piracy in very dangerous seas, dangerous waters, shows envious results, but a colleague of Špoljar spoke about statistics so I will not show them here, but since the presence of the maritime forces of the European Union, and not only them, because with Croatia there are several other countries involved, we have reduced the number so we can say the success of these attacks, and this is a good sign for Croatia, a sign of taking on international responsibility, but also the opportunity for Croatian officers, given that the engagement of these five officers so far has been very targeted from the command to participate in the warships of individual countries, in a quality way from the first hand to learn how modern Navys operate, and therefore it seems to me that this decision to increase the number of members of the Croatian Armed Forces is a very good way to extend another circle of people, because I see that the possibility of rotation is well acquired experience that will certainly be useful for us in future missions. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we support both proposals that are on the table today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24898	Thank you very much. We will now hear the position of the club of representatives of HNS and the esteemed Mr. Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Miss Deputy Minister. As it is a good custom to begin to plead, so I declare myself on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and Liberal Democrats, we will support the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operations of NAF More Somalia and KFOR Kosovo. Recently in the Croatian Parliament, we voted in the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Afghanistan in the ISAF mission, and today is ahead of us of the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Somalia and Kosovo. We in the Croatian People's Party are convinced of the importance and necessity of Croatian engagement in international military missions, under the leadership of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. Participation in peace operations is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world, but strengthening the security of its own country. In a recent debate concerning the participation of our troops in Afghanistan, I noted in my debate and reminded that on 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the NATO alliance, and that all MPs voted for the decision except one person. All MPs, except for this one person, were then aware of the historic moment of entry into the most important military-political alliance in the world regardless of the political party or option. At that moment, they were aware of the responsibility for the true, real safety of Croatia, that is, its citizens and citizens. The primary function of every country to ensure its citizens and citizens safe life, both citizens and citizens knowingly transferred their share of freedom to the state in order to return it to security and thus gave the citizens the right to a repressive apparatus, for internal security, for the police, for the foreign military. I would like to reiterate that military security for the citizens of Croatia is certainly not the same as for the citizens of other NATO members or citizens of the European Union. Croatia is the only one of all NATO countries, and all members of the European Union that passed through in its immediate history bloody,... Long-term war. [[You don't understand.]] That makes us all, or at least the vast majority particularly sensitive to the country's security and military issues at all. Along with these unfortunate war events, Croatia unfortunately has experience of war from the recent past, and the Croatian Army has created its foundations during the Homeland War. More fresh memories are as much as we try to forget them all, the infidelity and fear in these first moments of attack on Croatia, all the refugees of Croatian citizens, the massive shelling, the destruction of our cities and villages. Still fresh memories of the traumatic departures to the basements and shelters, the blackouts of the windows, the sticking black covers to the car's lights, the alarms, the fear, the infidelity that this is happening to us at all, we remember the exits from the shelter after the alarms with the great fear of who has fallen or not, which has been destroyed, which is another of our cultural monuments, the symbols of our historical identity destroyed by mindless shelling, which we dearly disappeared, destroyed by a mad rocket attack. To the citizens of Croatia, security must mean something completely different than to the citizens of any member of NATO or the European Union. In a clear desire for membership in the European Union, NATO, Croatia, during its communication with other members, and participating in international security missions since 2002, has been able to obtain the recognition of all NATO members and become a full 28th NATO member in 2009 and a far-sighted decision by almost all members of the then Croatian Parliament to Croatia to participate in all discussions, on all aspects of global security policy, sitting at the same table, with all other NATO members, with the most developed countries in the world. This, however small, made Croatia a factor in world security, protecting itself. NATO's alliance is a political defence-military alliance of 28 countries that contains provisions with its strict rules on the protection of common civilization and cultural values for the protection of human freedoms and rights. Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty carries a provision saying that an attack on one NATO member means an attack on all other members. By entering NATO's full membership, Croatia probably has long ensured stability and peace for its citizens, and stability and peace are the son of Qua non any progress. By joining NATO and especially by entering the EU, Croatia through the framework of security and stability finally gets such an important prerequisite and opportunity for unhindered longer-term development. But getting into these associations is certainly not the end but only one of the beginnings of a faster and more stable development of Croatia's state and society. Croatia also assumes completely other responsibilities and tasks in a security sense not only for itself but also for its own region and beyond. We in the Croatian People's Party believe that no one should be indifferent to other people's suffering regardless of where the part of the world is, or people who suffer. It's important to us how people live today in Burkina Fas, Myanmar, Sudan or Afghanistan. The right to security is the right that our country is obliged to provide. It refers to the so-called external threats and makes it possible to establish and develop its own armed forces. It should certainly be pointed out other than the benefits arising from the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in ISAF peacekeeping operations under the leadership of the United Nations, the EU or NATO, which relate to the establishment of peace, security, high standards, democratisation, human rights and civil freedoms. Benefits are also in constant communication with other armies and soldiers, and in the exchange of experiences, technological and operational and innovation among NATO members. This is where technological and command experience of the Croatian Army is developed according to the world's highest standards. As head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am in permanent contact with fellow NATO parliamentarians, but also with various NATO operatives from military to political personnel. All, especially colleagues from the United States, point out the unusually high quality and professionality of our soldiers in all peacekeeping operations particularly in the ISAF, Afghanistan and KFOR peacekeeping operation in Kosovo. Such a maximum professional approach to carrying out NATO tasks makes Croatia a serious and responsible member of the International Community, certainly helps in the overall development of the International Community, but also in Croatia. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in those missions contributes to the reputation of Croatia in the world, but they increase military preparedness and raise the professionalism of the Croatian Army and thus raise the level of security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to reiterate my position that the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly thanks to all members of the delegation is one of the levers of permanent communication, but also to the promotion of Croatian views and policies among members of the parliaments of other NATO members. And as I said at the beginning, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats will support a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Somalia and Kosovo peace operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24900	Thank you very much. The HDSSB's Club of Representatives' position will be presented by distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Deputy Minister. The HDSB club will support this time this proposal for a decision on the participation of the RS Armed Forces in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo KFOR or KFOR, but also a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the RS Armed Forces in the EU peacekeeping operation, let me shorten Somalia – ATALANTA. It is about us voting and discussing earlier such proposals for the participation of Croatian forces that we have known to be a little bit and skeptical, so in our club, the HDSSB actually assesses the fairness and justification of the actions led by the International Community, the United Nations, the NATO Pact and the rest. And now as a member of the NATO Pact, it actually kind of belongs to us. In both of these operations and in Kosovo, and in the Gulf of Aden, it is about that connection somewhere, so Croatian forces would participate with 20 members, with two flight units of helicopters, technicians and all that belongs to one helicopter in Kosovo. So 20 members of the Croatian Armed Forces, the Croatian Air Force, above all, and anti-aircraft defence. And yet the operation in Somalia is about the presence of our officers on board ships or in the headquarters of other members of the NATO Pact. I was in the first debate when we also had a proposal to send them to Somalia, or the Gulf of Aden, I was a little skeptical. However, when I listen to today’s news compared to those before, we find it very rarely in any case compared to a period of two, three years ago that a ship was abducted by pirates. This means that the presence of the Armed Forces in Operation ATALANTA, international forces are acting and that the number of hijacking ships is very, very significantly reduced. So the success of the operation is more than obvious. That is also what the EU is doing, which has launched another mission, as it says here... where he tries therefore to train and train the navy of the countries of the locals who are also interested in preventing piracy in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here's the results, so then this time the HDSSB club won't be skeptical of that operation let's keep saying it shorted out like this atalanta. As for the operation in Kosovo, that is, Operation KFOR of our Force, that is, this flight base is located near Urosevic, Albanian says Ferizaj and the assessments of our soldiers and the thinking of those who are supposed to be there and who run Operation KFOR is very, very positive. We know that our helicopters were involved in certain high-risk operations, there was some news of some kind of overflights, flyovers, etc., but everything went well together. And I think that since this is a conflict, not a conflict but a more slow one would have already said, it has already gone to some peaceful stage but with the possibility of being more honest in an area that is very close to us geographically, and since these countries have also come apart from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, so Serbia and the Republic of Kosovo that the Republic of Croatia and in this case with its two helicopters and 20 soldiers should participate. Here, to conclude and not to be any longer, given that the time of the HDSSB club will be set aside for these two proposals to vote on the proposals of these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24902	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first to be the respected representative of Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for some water. I reported again in an individual debate as head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly because as a representative of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to witness recently the anti-piracy actions on the edge of Africa, specifically in the former French colony of the French Somalia. Our 15 NATO parliamentarians, led by the head of the transatlantic defence subcommittee of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the British Lord John Stanley, are otherwise a very well-known and respected person. Otherwise, he was the secretary of defense during Margaret Thatcher and the war on the Faklands. In four extremely intense days and alongside the French military base's main household, we met with ambassadors accredited to Djibouti Germany, the United States, France, the EU, French admirals and generals, Vice-Admiral Christian Cano's deputy commander of NATO Mission Ocean Shield, we visited the French military base, the US military base, the Japanese military base and the Danish frigate that is sailing in the NATO mission. We were also on a curtous visit to the Djibouti Parliament by the Foreign Minister, Djibouti. Personally, I was particularly impressed with the knowledge of the abundance and presence of various armies in the northern Indian Ocean, i.e. the area of probably the densest maritime waterway in the world, the road leading to the Red Sea, through the Suez Canal in the Mediterranean and vice versa. There are four international group missions supported by UN resolutions. The African Union mission Ambison as an autochthon mission, a joint naval force Counter parasite task force City 5151 EU Operation NFOR Atalanta and NATO Operation Ocean Shield – Ocean Shield. These missions have been set up with the primary aim of protecting ships carrying humanitarian aid to African countries, but the goal has been expanded and the mission is aimed at completely curbing piracy. Some details and figures were discussed by my colleague, Spoljar, so I wouldn't be entering them right now. But other than these missions involving about 40 countries, there are also China, India, Iran, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Yemen. They include numerous private security companies serving the same purpose of stopping and fighting piracy. In fact, every modern state has a duty to protect its sailors and ships, and that is what the public expects of every government of the endangered states. These countries are governed by international regulations and regulations of international maritime law and these missions by UN Security Council Resolutions. The piracy in the area has been going on for a long time, but it has really worried the world public since 2008. By then, Somali fishermen had attacked a smaller boat, a yacht, where they had robbed in the most cruel way what was being given on yachts and smaller ships. In 2008 the piracy of Somali fishermen became a business of local leaders and tribes and turned into still a cruel but very lucrative business. The peak of piracy takes place in 2010 and 2011 when it stops and blackmails between 150 and 170 merchant ships and is asked by shipowners for a huge ransom of $5 million per ship. The pirate leaders have shown unusual cruelty to their pirates. They send them with relatively small fishing boats and poorly equipped food and water and with relatively weak weapons and with only one way to travel the North Indian Ocean from 200 to 400 miles. So because of the inability to continue surviving pirates are directed to attack, capture, theft and finally blackmail merchant ships and yachts passing through. Piratery in the Indian Ocean and you can say seasonal work because it lasts at a time when the ocean is completely still. In the postmonsoon era with the arrival of monsoon piracy ceases. As a result of such a large number of military and security agencies, pirates dropped 80% in this year 2012. This year there were 40 attacks and eight of them successful. Military ships take more merchant ships into the convoy and follow them often with helicopter support until entering the Red Sea. Clearly,... with the strong engagement of the UN and the EU and NATO, they are moving to the mainland as well. In addition to limited military actions, intelligence solutions seek to find the leaders and participants of the pristery, training of the maritime police forces of the state of Somalia and Gibuti and trying to establish an effective judiciary in order to improve the quality and efficiency of pirate processing. The goal is to establish quality relations with the Somalian government itself. In that environment, Croatia is sending its troops to the EU NAVFOR-Atalanta mission. I believe that, apart from the priority goal of protecting Croatian shipboats and protecting Croatian sailors, the deployment of Croatian soldiers and the increase in the number of soldiers to 20 contribute significantly to Croatia's leadership in important world events. In such missions, various specific experiences include further training of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Also in these missions our soldiers meet with the most modern defense technologies. They meet and practice ways of modern defence methods in direct communication with their counterparts from all NATO member states and this specific case of EU member states whose 28th member Croatia will become in a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24904	Thank you very much. And the last debate of her distinguished representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister. So here are two decisions to send our forces to KFOR and Atalanta missions. On the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosovo in the Peace Operation, which was established in 1999 have been participating since 2008. Our special interest is and should not even be mentioned that we have very significant interests in political, economic and other Kosovo and that stabilising the situation has a significant impact on relations between countries in the region. Our members must have shown exceptional willingness to discipline and loyalty, so they have been offered in the past and a certain fullness of the position of assistant chief of staff. I think they show the reality of the Croatian armed forces, and during this whole time, 221 members of them and 9 women participated in the mission. The entire KFOR mission in Kosovo had 16 thousand troops and was to be reduced to 2500 in these three phases, but this third phase did not experience its own in view of the current situation and the threats that are still under threat. The establishment of peace and security in the wider region of SEE Europe certainly and new developments in Kosovo, the northern region that is intertwined with both crime and corruption, certainly and new events and verdicts of the UN tribunal, need to remain our forces and be our members with two helicopters in this mission to support our forces as well as other forces, as well as for logistics and surveillance in the area. These other members who are in the Atalanta Mission in Somalia and on the ships of our allies must have their significance in the repression of crime as well as in the repression of robbery and on the horn of Africa where we have witnessed many times and our sailors have experienced capture and have been threats that must surely be removed. The aim is to establish a Somalian force that will be able to control itself and that will be able to eliminate all threats that are and I believe that our members will continue to work loyally and faithfully on these missions and achieve the results that are significant to the Republic of Croatia, which are also experiences that will pass on to those members who are in our units as well as in our members. I think we have no reason not to support these new decisions that are ahead of us since they have the consent of the president... the state that all clubs absolutely supported and I think it is a commendable engagement of the Republic of Croatia which aims to help all as it has been aided by those who sent it. We therefore support these two decisions aimed at sending our members into retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24906	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs Vishnja Tafra, Deputy Defence Minister, will address us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24907	I thank all the parliamentary deputies who participated in this debate and supported the proposals for decisions. This clearly speaks of our common agreement that the government has on the need to refer and participate our members in peace operations around the world but is also clearly talking about how much peace we have become wherever it threatens to be important for our entire life. What's the point of our distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr... I said, and as far as the safety of our members is concerned, I need to tell you that there is not a single operation that has no risk. [[You don't understand.]] If that were the case, we may have all forgotten, but also in the former Yugoslavia where the wars were being fought, and so unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, 131 members of the United Nations died, so we must be aware that every time we decide to go to a peace-preservation mission, we must be aware of the situation that our people are at risk. However, they are always equally concerned about being threatened as much as possible. So for your information on the involvement of our members in a particular peacekeeping mission, the Republic of Croatia has the right to limit what its forces will do and what we as a state, or as the Ministry of Defence, agree to participate in. In this contribution, it says what Mr. Schir mentioned and what happened last year in Kosovo, means when our forces received a request to transport Kosovo's security forces. It was against the restrictions we declared, and at that moment, our troops with helicopters were grounded. It has been estimated that such an engagement would put our members at risk, and at that moment it is responding. Further options that remain as options of reaction are foreseen, as you yourself know, by the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, in Article 11 is explicitly prescribed when and even this respected Homeland War, i.e. The Croatian Parliament can decide that our members withdraw from peacekeeping missions, and in a situation where it is extremely fatal, it means when it is time for the Croatian Parliament to be unable to decide on it, then that decision is made by the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief, and subsequently reported by this Croatian Parliament. There's only that much. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24908	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this agenda point, and on the proposals for decisions, we will vote on both decisions when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24909	A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, KFOR. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. The majority of the votes of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Article 7(6), are required to make this decision. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, we have adopted a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Peace Operation (KFOR) in the text as proposed by the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24932	Next on the agenda is – - Proposal for a Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 217 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law have been submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Minister, Orsat Milenic, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24933	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. So, before you there's the Courts Act, he's connected to the next point, so the State Judiciary Council Act. Just in a couple of lines, what are the most important changes. So what we want to achieve through this is greater responsibility in the judicial system, especially with an emphasis on the presidents of the courts. So the first thing we change about trial within a reasonable time frame, we've rated the current system as completely unsatisfactory and wrong. Today, when a citizen is tried too long, when the trial takes place beyond that reasonable period, his only option is to address the higher court, the senior court eventually determines a fee, determine a lower court when it is due to be settled, in practice, unfortunately, within that time period very often does not set the first hearing, let alone to resolve the case. All this leads to us today having over 90 grand in these civil disputes and trade cases older than 3 years, unfortunately 13 and a half thousand older than 10. So what are we changing? We're changing that to introduce the President of the Court as a key figure, in addition to the judge, of course, who will deal with the team. So the citizen whose right has been violated, addresses the President of the Court, the President of the Court is obliged to see with his judge what and how to do, which is the problem. Maybe the judge has too many cases, it can be recognizable, there may be some legal position missing, he can call a department meeting and solve it, so take it, and the president of the court has to inform the citizen when his case is resolved. That's what it's for. So, if that case is not resolved within that time limit, then the report goes to the Ministry of Justice who can initiate the appropriate procedure, and to the President of the High Court. The citizen is then left with this legal remedy as it is now, to address it means to this higher court which will grant him compensation and set a deadline again. So the presidents of the court through this get more powers, more responsibilities, and citizens get the opportunity to simply get the whole process going much faster. One thing and financially, unfortunately we're at over 30 million kunas that we're paying for this, it's totally unnecessary to throw money, because over 30 next year, this year it's going to cross maybe 40 million, we're paying because citizens haven't got what they have right to within a reasonable period, and that's one thing that's also going to be affected by this law. As I was saying, the president of the court has more authority over more responsibility. We bring the immunity of judges into certain frameworks in accordance with the requirements of the European Commission monitoring, because it has been estimated that the current immunity is too wide, so we narrow it down, there has been a lot of debate, and I think we have found a good balance that will give one protection that needs to be done, but it will not prevent the persecution of those who commit the crime, so also judges. One thing I have to say here is I won't say surprised us because we knew about it, but we didn't know the scale, you have, say, a municipal court in Zagreb over 6 thousand cases meets a double criterion, that 8 years nothing, that they're over eight years old and that three years nothing happened in them. It's not an act of rigor. You mean today when a judge meets the standard he has no duty to work in order to receive and by age of the case or by urgency. So the norm can be satisfied simply by some solving newer, easier objects. That's what we're changing. This is now becoming an obligation here, and you will see later in the DSV Act and the hard work. Therefore, non-compliance with the order of receipt of cases and urgency, and urgency is determined in special laws now is a major act. We simply cannot allow the citizens' cases to stand for so long and not to be solved, to skip and to solve these newer and possibly easier objects. This is followed by something other than the subject of the law, which is the change of frameworks as they are already called framework norms or something like that, framework standards where judges are still different and better evaluated means when they work on older objects. So it's not just some kind of punishment threat, it's also an incentive. We're spreading a little bit of the jurisdiction of the court's advisors. As far as court officials and tenants are concerned, we change meanings and facilitate their schedule differently. Now we have one feud. We have examples of unfortunately where you have two courts in the same building. One's got maybe five extra men, the other's missing. I can't move from one to the next without the president's consent. Of course, the president who has the excess doesn't want those people that are normal. Now we're changing that, now we'll be able to transfer them. The judicial inspection at the ministry is being strengthened. I'll say something. We're now this year thinking of 26 inspections we did compared to last year. That's three times that. By the end of the year, we'll make a few more. So we've already been stronger, but now we're defining powers a little differently and we're leaving. The whole law enforcement thing is next. The executive authority shall in no way interfere with the trial. But in governance, in what belongs to the judiciary, we have a responsibility to the citizens, and that's where we edit it in a slightly different way. One thing we expect will also give very good results is that it applies primarily and will be linked to the Law on Land Books when it comes to the Government next week. I don't know in Parliament it'll be in January. It concerns the insurance of certain assets. You have a whole series of local communities and self-government that have money, who want to edit for example Earth Books and are willing to participate. We are now giving a legal basis for it. So, when it comes to rebuilding, it's a condition that it goes for everyone. So it's not something that's municipal that's being restored, it's being restored by the entire catastrian community. So, every citizen who's there will be restored and he'll get a lands-marked state. It's one thing that will not only speed up these procedures, but will allow us to channel funds there to those municipalities that may not have enough resources. So that's one newspaper we're also introducing a delegation of cases. The delegation of the case is one of the means that, in the future, of course, we will continue to reorganize the networks, round the courts. But we have a great inequality between burdens on individual courts. Unfortunately, inequality is sometimes 10 times for the same pay. By delegation we move objects from more burdensome courts to those less burdened and thus we achieve that judges do the same amount on occasion. Of course, it's not automation. But it means that they're similarly burdened and that the objects are more dealt with. This year we're thinking about 24, 25,000 delegated objects. Half of it is second-degrees that are easier, but now we've gone to a first-degree class delegation simply to make it easier for citizens to get faster legal protection. So it's more or less of this some of the most important things. Maybe one thing about interpreters, witches and appraisers. Now we're raising them to a national level. You've also had now I won't say feudalization, but those who were appointed before a County court could only work there. There is no reason to increase your competition and there is no reason why someone appointed to Zagreb cannot work in Vukovar, Dubrovnik or anywhere else. If he's good here, he's good there. So that's something we're now raising to a national level. We will increase competition and lead to better results. Certain deadlines are established. What's very important is a whole series of reports are now foreseen here. We brought back the Justice Department to get reports, too. Absurd is, we're actually completely separated, you know that the constitutional solution is that the presidents of the courts are appointed exclusively DSV. So the judges name themselves presidents. So, at least now we've moved through this little bar to see what's going on there. So that's what this law also brings. There are a number of other changes, and I'm not going to go into details right now, but here it is in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24934	Thank you very much. We have one replica of that distinguished representative, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. It might be interesting to say that this Bill proposal has kind of preceded one of the objectives of the Justice Reform Strategy which I hope we will also get on the table very soon in the context and obligation of those 10 special tasks that we discussed at a special session of the Committee on Justice, so I wanted to take this opportunity to appeal to you that this document also comes to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament by the end of this year. And it seems to me that exactly the aspect of efficiency may have been the main principle in almost all the provisions of this new Law on Courts, which I think is particularly good that after a series of changes over the past 5 years it has gone to a new law and for reasons of clarity and for laying the foundation for the effective functioning of the Croatian judiciary. What we discussed today on the Justice Committee, and seems to have remained a little in the air. You didn't mention it this time. It was a matter of judicial administration, the introduction of a director, their relationship with both the presidents of the courts and with the secretaries. It might be good for the second reading to specify the provisions that most of us who discussed this today are somewhat unsettled, so I hope that this aspect will also help, especially in light of the rationalisation of the network of courts, because it would be good to have one picture of how many courts in Croatia have more than 40 judges, so we get one piece of information about how, after the project that was made in the context of joining the European Union, this idea will live in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24936	So as far as the strategy is concerned, she's made up, she's already passed the boards, so I hope she'll be in front of you next week, and this absolutely fits into it. But you know how it is, time goes, we can't always wait to bring one document, they're harmonised. The other thing is, you mentioned our obligations. So what we're doing strictly looking at is just one small segment of this thing that we're explicitly prescribed. However, we have also made a commitment to the citizens, which is to shorten the proceedings, to reduce these judicial backlogs, and we ourselves have defined what we are going to do about it. So this is not defined by anyone on the part of this package, and this law also includes the Law on Procedural Procedure, the DSV Act and some others who have already been before the Parliament. As for course what you mentioned to the director and secretary, there is, I don't know now by heart, I think it is, I guess it means that 15 county centers would have had directors, but they're not necessarily for one court, so if you have in Dubrovnik, I speak to Dubrovnik, there one director can be for all courts, he'll be sworn to county, but there's no need because there's not so much capacity that he works only for county, he'll work for all Dubrovnik courts. So that's the idea for the principals. It's a project, the pilot was in Rijeka, Split, showing very good results, and that's why it's something we're introducing here as a possibility. So I say what is before you, of course, that we and this are meeting, with these obligations that we have to enter the EU, but this is something that we have assessed ourselves and concluded that we should do, primarily because of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24937	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Then we move on to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24938	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The Law on Courts governs the establishment, detour and internal structure of courts, the affairs of the judicial administration and the powers of the President of the Court, the issue of the protection of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, the supervision of the affairs of the judicial administration and judicial inspection, the rights and duties of the judges, the means for the work of the courts and other issues without which the work of the court would not be possible. In short, the Law on Courts is a basic regulation governing the work of the court. Without a law like this, there's no court's work, no good, no bad. There is a new bill before us, which replaces the 2005 Law on Courts, which has been amended several times, complemented, and which, to be honest, no longer looked like anything. The basic idea of this law, as well as other laws, such as that of a litigation procedure or the State Judicial Council that we have yet to discuss, is how to make court proceedings more effective, how to make better, closer to parties, but also so that this efficiency does not affect fundamental human rights, and these are citizens' rights to a fair trial, i.e. the protection of that fundamental right, which is that each of us is founded by an independent and impartial court, justly and within a reasonable period of time, to decide on our rights and obligations, or on suspicion and charges for criminal acts. Of course this law, like these other laws we discussed, e.g. The law on criminal proceedings or those we are about to discuss, these are the Law on Prosecution, including the Penal Code, will not, overnight, remove all the problems that we clearly have in the Croatian judiciary, but these laws, and these laws, in particular, represent one significant step forward, towards achieving the efficiency of judicial work. In the short lines of this law, the provisions on the immunity of judges are aligned with the relevant provisions of the Constitution, and it is prescribed that the immunity of judges applies only to offences committed in the conduct of the judicial duty. The minister spoke about some of the guidelines that we received from the European Commission, but we also have a main guideline, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So far, the Law on Courts has protected judges far more than was prescribed by our Constitution. This reduces our protection in some ways, but it remains bigger than is prescribed by the Croatian Constitution, and it cannot be said that these laws damage judges in any way. Furthermore, the issue of the case's concession, now and on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, to ensure an even distribution of the case, avoided a situation in which two judges only a few tens of kilometers away have a huge difference in the number of cases, thus ensuring that those judges who due to the minor inflow of cases in some smaller courts are less burdened, also solve those cases that burden their colleagues in neighbouring courts. We think there's a very good measure in this case. It is also better to regulate the handling of cases concerning the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In this part of the law, the tendency to pay compensation to the damaged moves towards what is important, which is to complete the subject. So it is no longer a priority to pay compensation to the damaged site because its case takes too long than to ensure that the case is indeed resolved, and only then did the judge judge ensure that the case is resolved within a reasonable period of time will the party receive the compensation that it is subject to by law under the Constitution and by European regulations. Furthermore, the Institute of the Directors of the Court is being introduced, the question of the court's deposit is being settled, the way judicial inspection is being further discussed, local self-government is being allowed to co-finance the work of the courts, I will point out this in particular. I personally testified that in the Rovinj courtroom where I participated in the debate, a piece of noise fell during the debate and almost injured the judge and the notary. The city of Rovinj has repeatedly asked to help resuscitate that court building and prevent it from happening but was not allowed to do so under regulations. With such legal provisions, we allow local self-government to participate in what is its task, which is to enable institutions working in its field and citizens using the work of these institutions to work in better conditions. This is also how we disbursement the state budget because we ensure that those who have more to contribute to their territory and that the state will then be able to make use of the funds that will be used in other areas. However, what we want to pay special attention to in the SDP is the issue of the report on the work submitted by the presidents of the courts. In accordance with the draft law before us, the Presidents of the Courts shall, once a year by 31 March of the preceding year, submit a report directly to the High Court, the State Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice, as well as to measures and activities taken to improve the work and effectiveness of the Court of Justice in resolving the case. Of course the SDP supports this provision. This will enable senior courts and the Justice Department throughout the year to have a picture of what is happening in the judicial system. But what we do not accept or disagree with in this bill and what we particularly want to point out to the minister is the fact that this obligation has been introduced for all the presidents of the courts except for one. This obligation does not apply to the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. and that is for the President of that court, who, unlike all other courts, is elected by the Croatian Parliament, but not only to be elected by the Croatian Parliament of Presidents of the Supreme Court and to be resolved. I think that according to what we have introduced for the head of the state's attorney, the Republic of Croatia would be a provision of Article 40. The Law on State Attorney's Office and for the President of the Supreme Court should provide for the obligation to submit a report on the state of justice to the Croatian Parliament once a year. Is that what gets in the way of court independence? Of course not. However, such a report allows the President of the Supreme Court to meet this House once a year with the situation in the Croatian judiciary to say what is good in the judiciary, what is wrong in the judiciary, what we have changed in the judiciary and what is wrong and what we have not changed to allow us to do better. We will not adopt such a report, dispute over it, bring down the President of the Supreme Court, though. We will use such a report as one instrument so that we all work better together. And for this reason, we believe that one provision should certainly be included in the final draft of the law, which would regulate the submission of such a report, or its content, deadlines for submission, etc. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on State's Attorney's Office. Let me not be too long, there is a good law before us, there is a law before us that will bring positive shifts in the work of the Croatian judiciary. Of course, as I have already mentioned, that law will not solve problems overnight. Of course that law won't stay like this forever. We will likely soon see how it works in practice to adapt some provisions. But I believe that this law represents an excellent basis for resolving the situation and that in the foreseeable future we have one judiciary that is effective, fast, guaranteeing the protection of all those human rights that belong to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to all other persons who address the courts under the Constitution. Therefore, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24939	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Anne Lovrin's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24940	Thank you very much. Well, I don't have much to do with this law, but I'm going to say, it's not the duty of the local self-government units to care and maintain institutions, all institutions, but only those whose functioning they are in charge of under the Law on Local Self-Government, and therefore in their jurisdiction, it's not their duty. And of course you don't have to bring the state into a situation where there's noise falling off the walls and then the city has to run to turn that noise down a little bit. But here we were talking about something else, and that's kind of the intensity of this law. So the propos one president of a court almost ended up in a tight procedure, and maybe I don't remember what happened afterwards because she received money from a local self-government unit. So this is about another situation where units of local self-government primarily wanted to help the courts, and it's good that this law is settled here because it would be a lot of misunderstandings how and how to handle it and how to receive payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24941	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Grbin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24942	I thank my colleague, Lovrin. It is true, the Constitution makes it very clear who needs to worry about what to worry about but remains the fact that units of local self-government if no one else is required to vote or to citizens living in local self-government to ensure that the work of all local authorities in the area of local self-government units is normal. And it's true, yes, they don't have local self-government units. No, I don't. I'm getting right. The units of local self-government should not intervene when the noise in the court building falls, because the state should take care of it, but the state has not taken care of it. So you enter the courts where the bush falls, you enter the courts' buildings where because the offices are two meters away, the files fall on you, you enter the courts' buildings where you'll stumble on the first step and fall because it's falling apart. So why in a situation where local self-government has money and is willing to do something, let's not let local self-government do it? Will the court building be any harm to anyone? I don't think so. And this law allows that, and that you have pointed out very correctly to help solve the problem of catasters, with the digitization of catastras, with the collection of land books, digitisation of land books, so we, for example, had a project in the city of Pula that failed because the city of Pula couldn't, could not finance the scanning and digitisation of documents. Imagine how much faster this would work if we had the entire collection of documents digitized and in the computer, but we couldn't. This is what we're correcting, and that's why I think this is a very, very good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24943	Thank you very much. The HNS's club's position will be presented by distinguished representative Nada Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party welcomes the adoption of a new Law on Courts, we consider this proposal, which is a very big and quality step towards creating conditions for a better and more efficient judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, it means in that basic intensity, which is to shorten as long as possible, to shorten the time period in which it is tried, means through the Institute of Protection of the Rights of Trial within a reasonable period of time. We also welcome the provisions that strengthen the responsibility of the President of the Court, for the overall functioning of the courts for which they are responsible. What is equally good in this bill is strengthened in a way and the role of the Ministry of Justice as the competent authority of the executive authority in charge, and in the eyes of the citizens ultimately and responsible for whether the judiciary system operates according to the highest standards. It is clear that the success of the justice minister is measured in reality in the eyes of citizens with the success of the trial in the Republic of Croatia. One of the instruments that is actually operational, and where here the Ministry gets powers, is to create mobility within the system in a way that can deploy personnel within the system, which is of course on the space especially the size of the Republic of Croatia something that is absolutely normal and something that is a prerequisite for the normal functioning of such a system. What is also good, in fact, in this law is all good, except that we will have another proposal, that is, to support the proposal of colleagues of the Grbin and Club of Representatives of the SDP, the presidents of the courts should fully devote themselves to their work and to their profession, means to focus on the cases in the jurisdiction of their court, to monitor the quality of work, but also of course the quantity of work done. That's why this law applies to them, because it allows them to keep that part of the work they have often complained about, to make it impossible for them to do their basic work, which is other jobs, so-called. The management affairs within the courts, that they would be able to do so as appointed in law by the directors of the judicial administration. We believe that this is good, especially if it is possible for one person to be in charge of several courts, which will also enable certain funds to be saved, means that each court does not have a separate director, since each court has other officers who carry out these similar tasks. So here's the one thing that practically in this law is, will justify too much work, not only in these basic, but all other jobs that apology will no longer be possible. This is why, I said, we will support the thinking and colleagues of the Grbin, or SDP club, is often the question of who, and how, in reality, monitors, directs the work of our courts and judges. Of course, there would be no wrong thinking here and thinking about what I'm going to say, as far as the CNS is concerned, the judiciary does not question the independence of the judicial authority, it must absolutely be independent of the position, assumptions of the government's trio, but insisting on independence and triodiba often, especially with us is often a front for hiding, hiding failures, refusing criticism, absolute lack of self-criticism. And even the direction in which the judicial authority should function if it is said by someone from the position of the executive authority or the legislative authority in this case to us. It is our opinion in the Croatian People's Party that it would be absolutely appropriate, for example, for the Croatian Parliament to receive a report once a year from the President of the Supreme Court on the situation in the judiciary, i.e. a report on the work we have, for example, from the DORH and what we have, for example, from the Croatian National Bank. So that would be one particular kind of surveillance, but not to control the scale of the things that the court is dealing with, means processes, objects, overall functioning, efficiency, problems that arise, their proposals towards us. It means that some of things are getting better. I think that such a provision, we in the CNS, would feel that such a provision would further strengthen our aspirations for our courts to be faster, more quality and ultimately transparent. The judiciary, like the other two authorities, cannot live outside space and time. Unfortunately, too often this impression is reached and it would not be good to see this HNS statement as an attempt to influence politics, but rather an attempt to contribute to the quality of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia by communicating and directing each other. There are also a number of proposals in this bill that should return trust in the coming period, proposals, operational proposals that should restore citizens' confidence in our judiciary, which we find extremely important. I think that every citizen who has had any dealings with our courts in the past 15 years has in reality lost all hope and faith that there is justice and justice in this country. Unfortunately, the accumulation and timely settlement of the case also prompted that part of our citizens who used the courts to avoid facing justice, with the law knowing that by handing justice to our courts would be able to avoid punishment or judgment for the longer term. Not a small number of those who have thus and manipulated both skilled lawyers and completely avoided judgments, and often of course those who would be punished. This law also has great importance, so we all know that by meeting the criteria before we join the EU. So, in this part of the monitoring of Croatia. We are all opposed to creating a quality investment climate in Croatia. One part of this whole story is also an inefficient judiciary, because it is certain that investors from a civilized part of the world where the judiciary works effectively will not be or would not be inclined to enter more serious or serious investments in the Republic of Croatia in the state of the judiciary as it is with us. Since everything costs, of course, and this part of the job trial costs us a welcome proposal that in this law strengthens the cooperation of courts with local self-government, of course, in the part where local self-government has an interest in solving certain matters to the benefit above all its citizens. It's land books. Those situations are on the ground, we've got them in multiple places. I personally had excellent experience in the Kingdom with the functioning of the court and, of course, I simply do not have the means for that court to operate on the ground, and there local self-government has made a decision that I believe was absolutely correct and that is likely to be in the absence of, perhaps, a lack of resources at all, and other self-governments have to make if they want such a single service, because it is actually one court service that is done in their field. It welcomes and extends the powers of judicial advisers, monitoring the work of courts, means reports, adoption of labour plans in courts, monitoring the implementation of these plans. So these are all the provisions of this law that should make major shifts in the efficiency of our judiciary and of course the Croatian People's Party will support this proposal in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24945	Thank you very much. The next is on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law in the first reading because we think that any further improvement of the rules of the part-round judiciary that go towards speeding up procedures and that the citizens of the acquis get a faster welcome. We also assess the good that it went to a new law, the adoption of a new law given the multiple amendments to the current Law on Courts, and we always support that it is easier and better for those who apply the law when they have a systematic, logical, complete text of the law. Since this is about first reading, then we will look a little bit more closely at certain provisions because we think that we can certainly make this text to the final proposal of the law, so I'll say it more and more and more people, perhaps, more and more, and the remarks are always welcome in the first reading. So if we're sorting out the importants or by the numbers, here's maybe how the law structure works. First, I will stick to Article 9 which is not controversial, according to judges' salaries are regulated by law, it is not disputed. But yesterday we discussed this law famously about the salaries of judges and I then said it was really humiliating for the judges to take something that was their '99 law. The year established as a right then in 11 amendments to that law is said every time we tell them we won't give them what we told them we'll give them, now we won't give them any more because we don't have the funds. So please, Ministers, bring that law as it belongs and say, determine the salaries and allowances of the judges in the extent that the state can guarantee them. Furthermore, this one important newspaper that is being introduced by this law, which is the Director of the Judicial Administration. So, indeed, this law introduces some new jobs, so additional burden is given to the presidents of the courts and, looking from that direction, you might say that the director of the judiciary really needs these larger courts that have more than 40 judges. It would be interesting, we are not counting on ourselves now, asking how many such courts are in Croatia, or how many of those would potentially join with one of the directors of the Judiciary Administration. The Head of the Judicial Administration would take care of material financial affairs, building maintenance, public procurement, and would participate in the implementation of projects of the judicial administration. I'd like to ask for a little explanation, I personally don't understand what the Court of Justice project is, so we'll hear it. But, okay. So, he'd do it, he'd take care of the technical and technical services, etc. It's not bad, that would drive the President of the Court out of these logistics cases. What I'm saying is that we don't expect it to be a magic asset stick because it's been said here somewhere that the presidents of the courts have been suing that they don't know with the means and then there's no money for the witches, so there's no money to pay I don't know the postage, etc. There won't be a magic wand for the manager to find that money. The money is simply obviously not enough in the budget and we will still face this problem no matter how we refut it. Namely, and now every court has a head of accounting or someone who cares about these material financial affairs. And the proposal for them is also according to the law, as well as to the President of the Court. But right now, I'd just be troublesome about this relationship between the secretary and the director of the court administration. This proposal provides for the Registrar to respond to his work as Director of the Judicial Administration. We now see that the conditions for the Director of the Judiciary are therefore a study of law or economy, but it may also be a specialist degree study of the economy. So, first-rate economics. It is certainly small, their first jobs are not compatible, so the director deals with logistics, the court secretary responds to the performances and complaints of citizens, he organizes court officials, their education, their schedule, etc. And it doesn't correspond to that work at all. So you should consider that the court secretary responds to the president of the court because he has specific affairs, not to this director. Something also about a reasonable trial which is also one of the main newspapers of this law. Therefore, the application for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period to be guaranteed to citizens as judicial protection is now no longer submitted to the High Court but is first submitted to the President of the Court in which the proceedings are being conducted and the President of the Court decides on that application. I'll just say something very quickly about deadlines. The President of the Court says that within 15 days of receipt of the request, he will ask the judge to make a statement, and then we will tell the judge that he must immediately or no later than 15 days. I don't know why it takes the President of the Court 15 days to refer it to the judge to show it, and the judge needs some time because he has to enter the case, he has to see it, it has to be obvious about the proposal. So, this is an unreasonablely long 15-day deadline for the president to direct himself to the judge immediately. And finally all the indicative deadline is 60 days in which the President of the Court must then respond and decide on a violation of the right. I believe that there are sufficient deadlines for the President, i.e. in particular this period referred to in paragraph 3 that the unnecessary debt is the same as the deadline provided for in Article 65(2), so he says that if the judge does not resolve the case within a specified period that he is due within 15 days of the expiry of that time to inform his President further the Ministry of Justice, etc. If he hasn't done it within a certain time limit, why does it take him another 15 days to notify someone? It can be done as soon as it sees that it will not succeed within that time limit to inform immediately of the reasons why it cannot comply with that deadline. I would like to warn you about article 76, which is likely to happen, and he is referring to the court uniforms, what will happen to the additions to the judges' salary. Those uniforms have been in the law for a long time, and I don't think there's a uniform on them yet, so let's decide if they need it or not. The judges wouldn't mind, but there's just no money for it and there won't be any. And that's why maybe this article doesn't even have to be here. One more thing, the Minister of Justice determines the number of judges. In each court, we know that there is always a very difficult increase in the number of judges, of course, primarily because of the funds and because there is an unbalanced schedule and that in some courts, there are some shortages. We have seen that this business of delegation of the case is going well but we still have a situation in Croatia that judges in individual referendums and courts are burdened 1:10 times, it is simply unacceptable and ministers I ask you that by some regulation, there is no provision at all about how many or as indicative criteria as the judge can have the most cases in the referendum. And that should simply be determined because you cannot expect the quality of work if the judge is so drastically burdened, and I say the burdens are 1:10 currently in Croatia. I'd like to join the position of the SDP Club and the HSN Club on the report. So there has been a lot of discussion on the occasion of constitutional changes about having us and the Supreme Court report on the state of justice. There was a lot of resistance to this being a parliamentary view over the third pillar of power. But here's what we actually have absurd now that we're discussing justice, you know when? When we go to the State's Attorney's Office's report and I don't see why we shouldn't have a judicial organization report. So we can be a little wise here, and it doesn't matter to us now whether it's the President of the Supreme Court or not, maybe to inform us about it, because the Justice Department has all this information at the moment, one click can get it, and it can have that report and present it to us because these reports are the basis for thinking about some new laws or amendments to the law. And very often you will hear in the parliamentary debates that we are referring to what? On the State's Attorney's Office's report because it's an indicator of the situation in the judiciary. So we also read about judgments and the number of court cases from there, and I think we should report on the situation in courts and solve cases. Well, there was talk about it, let's say we introduced a strict provision in the Constitution on the independence of governors of the CNB and governors, but it did not bother the governor to submit a report here in the Croatian Parliament. So let's find a solution so that once a year, I think it's an important thing to discuss. As for the court counselors where their authority increased and I think that's good. It would also be interesting to hear how many court advisors will remain at the end of 2012 of those who will never be able to become judges because they have not completed the judicial school but will remain in the system. They can be valuable when they have long experience, can work well and quality. It is good, therefore, that we have extended this line of disputes in which they can conduct the proceedings. I would only point to Article 109(3), where we said in administrative disputes in which the judge is an individual, since yesterday we discussed the Law on Administrative Disputes, are you aware that then it means all procedures in the first instance in front of the administrative courts, and some in the second degree in which the debate will not be held because we were expanding the area yesterday too, so please take care of it. Moreover, on the resources of the court, I have warned that this article is not well-supply in my opinion and in our opinion because it turns out that only the means to carry out the regular activities of the courts are provided in the state budget and that the funds for special purposes, which are practitioners, witches, jurors, etc. The cost of delivering that I don't know where to secure it because this is how it comes from. And something about this I think excellent is that you've put this into law so that the units of local self-government in the insurance of assets but you've been well formulate and it's not building maintenance, so it's in providing funds for certain activities of courts and the work of officials of interest to the community. It's well-formed, therefore, for something the court does, not for building maintenance. And I think the law should make it clear that when they co-finance these activities, it gives them no advantage in resolving their issues. It's very important because we've had cases where individual units have been paying, and then they've been over-the-counter-booking. We've had cases where they've paid directly for the afternoon work of officials to get their cases done. So one provision about not providing them with this or not allowing them to work overtime. One more thing about the court deposit, we also talked about on the board, this is good to pay attention to clearly determining what will be done with the deposits, how will be taken over, what will happen when the acquirer of the deposit of the unknown residence, but in paragraph 4. needs to set some deadline. So I would suggest that there be some general limitation period of 5 years that within 5 years it may exceed because this is how it turns out that the ad infinitum can come require that deposit. Immunity provisions are well-supplyed and it's good that immunity is reserved for judges. There was a lot of debate whether or not they should be protected. But here we go back to the state's attorney's reports, and we'll see that the biggest rejected criminal charges were just in relation to the judges and the state's attorneys, where every party when they were unhappy with solving them, then they were reported guilty. So it is good for them to be in that part unobstructed to say so in that way in their judicial work and it is now legally and corrupt, and on the other hand no one is protected and no one can commit crimes because, of course, the State Judiciary Council will, as the Croatian Council does in the end, do for its representatives in serious criminal cases when requested by the State Attorney's Office, always remove immunity in this case, and I believe so the State Judicial Council for Judges. Here with these few notes we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24947	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, the word has a distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24948	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished Minister Milenic, associates, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, in order not to be misunderstood from the debate, this law is a big step forward. Mrs. Lovrin spoke in detail about the law itself, and I'm going to do a little more about the principles that should be addressed when there's a second reading maybe some of it and I'm going to respect it. First of all, the judiciary is an independent government, third power in Croatia, but we need to know when we are looking at the state as a whole that all authorities are interdependent. I therefore immediately support Mr. Peđa Grbin's idea that, once a year, the President of the Supreme Court should address the Croatian Assembly and report to the Croatian Parliament, not to call the Croatian Parliament, to have the opportunity to report as the President should report on the state of the nation so that the President of the Supreme Court informs the Parliament as the Supreme Body of the Republic of Croatia about the state of the court. I don't think that's judicial control, but if it were one good custom, it would be democratisation. It is absolutely certain that the judicial authority should be independent of politics, but it should also be independent of the powerful. The judiciary is the cornerstone of a democratic state, of every orderly state. If the judiciary isn't arranged, the state isn't democratic. So I argue that the Croatian state is not democratic, the judiciary has not experienced the necessary reform. All the time we've been in the Parliament talking about dignity, let's just say the most common defender. I've never heard here from a constituency pay phone that anyone was talking about the dignity of judges. And why wasn't he talking? Even the judges don't insist on discussing the integrity of judges. I was about a year and a half ago in a Zagreb restaurant about 14 hours at one lunch and there were 10 people at the next table, among them there were 5.6 respected I have to say under the quotes of the judges we all know, we see them every day in the courtrooms, which at 14 o'clock were in such a state that was inappropriate for and the most unknown judge of a municipality in some Croatian obituary. We know well when we talk about judges when a judge at a concert on a chair was dancing, we know about judges who made such statements that made the whole community but the State Judiciary Council didn't react, it didn't defend the judge's dignity. The essence of the trial is a reasonable trial, the essence of the trial is actually shortened, the shortest possible term is the essence of justice. Slow justice is often a great injustice. I was thinking whether to start with one case, I didn't start, but I started talking about how a Supreme Court judge would be good to give a report on the situation in the judiciary once a year in the Parliament. In the 2nd month, it will be 41 years since the gentleman... heard a lot in the Croatian public is being held by a court dispute. There's another senior dispute. Every time I talk about it, it was parliamentary representatives, fellow journalists or fellow friends, then they ask me, which is why he's been on trial for 40 years, 4 decades, which is so petty. Is it important what is being tried, he is being tried because the Croatian judiciary is bad, 40 years old. Earlier, the minister said there were cases where nothing had been done in the case for three years. That's what he knows it hasn't been done in three years, there's even more years not to work on the case. There are 90,000 cases older than 3 years, 13500, as you said, respected ministers over the age of 10. When these cases will be solved and which means justice after 10 years, 15 years, 20 years, which means. Which means justice is a man's forgiveness is not banalizing but it happens when he dies. It's an injustice. It's the state of the courts. And these laws we have today are better than the state of courts in Croatia. I was pleasantly surprised by Mr. Secretary when he spoke of it. The executive power shall not be precisely involved in the trial itself, but the executive power may and must be mixed in the management of the courts. However, where the judiciary or when the judiciary does not function, when it is not in the function of society and justice, the state must intervene. That's why I talked before about the interdependence of all three authorities, independent authorities that are interdependent. If we want a democratic state, a state of law and a state of justice. To stay out of it when we see that the judiciary is corrupt means to bury its head in the sand, it means to encourage this judiciary to be even more corrupt. The Croatian judiciary is corrupt. Many cases are held in a drawer not because of the laziness of judges, but because of that, for old age, a choir of various reasons of money, friendship, and everything else. You were also talking about non-compliance in the order of the case. It's also a big pain. Some court proceedings are quick, expressive, some court proceedings that are much simpler, but are much more difficult in money, and the consequences end in drawers, and the processes have been difficult for years. All those judges who do that, in fact, most of them, excuse me, most of the judges who do that aren't being prosecuted on the Destiny Council. Previously, someone was talking about commitments to the EU. I think that's completely wrong. It is important to talk about obligations towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If the courts meet our obligations to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then we have met our obligations to the EU. Everything contrary to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is also likely against the interest of the EU. Because as we said when we discussed EU accession, the EU is not the goal. The EU is a means for a better life, for a more decorated Croatian state. The judiciary certainly is one of the foundations of a more orderly state. I'd like to say something in the end about the immunity of judges, but not the immunity of judges to any criticism. They say I wouldn't comment because it's ongoing. Even when we know there's a great injustice. The judges are under the glass bell only when it comes to their interest, when it's not, when it's not when it comes to the height of judges. Can you imagine a judge sitting in some obscenity party in Britain singing in broad daylight? He would never be a judge again, and in his third generation, there would be no judge in his family, because he would be laid on that family. But we can do that. You even say that's a good judge, see how he sits and talks with politicians. Which is why 10% of the good judges aren't making progress, and 10% of the bad judges don't fall out of that game. But no, the State Destiny Council is protecting its caste. How long? While we as a society, this Assembly of all three authorities allow them to be judges, that they may not be touched under a glass bell by any responsibility so long we will have a corrupt and unjust state. This law, which is a step forward that we will certainly support, gives us the opportunity to go in the right direction, but without effective and drastic reform, nothing important will happen in the country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24949	Thank you very much. Your presentation caused a single replica of that distinguished representative, Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you are, saying fellow judges must be as you said or free or not under the influence of saying politics, but they shouldn't even be influenced by powerful men. I couldn't agree more. The Supreme is for a judge and an ideal pursued by the judiciary, not to be under the influence of politics or under the influence of not a powerful man but a large capital. Because who's the powerful man? The one who has a lot of money. But not under the influence of the media. And now I will point to Article 6 of this law, which says in the first paragraph: "No form of influence is allowed on the decision-making of a court, especially any form of coercion against judges, abuse of public authority and personal influence, and the use of media and public indifferences in a way contrary to the principles of democratic society, which aims to influence the course and outcome of judicial proceedings." That's what it says, it's beautifully written. However, how, how, how, and where will this be determined, and what will be the penalty? Not at all. Furthermore, the Court’s decision to amend only the court whose jurisdiction it falls under is stated. He's got sanctions here. The object will fall if it's different. He says everyone has a duty to respect the judicial and judicial authority and to subject themselves to it. There are sanctions here because they will be forced to enforce it. So, the court says, the work of the courts is public except when the Constitution or the law excludes public participation. And there's also sanctions. But in relation to the first sentence, neither will he, nor will he, who will judge when someone has influenced someone. And what do you think of this use of the media? So who do you think can best manage these media? Well, of course, their owners or those who advertise a lot, and then contribute to it. And in Croatia, I think there are still only two editorials that have the statutes of editorials that would make it impossible for the owners to influence the editorial policy. Now, this writes nicely, but there's neither a sanction nor a way for anyone to ever find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24951	Replica reply, distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24952	Dear colleague Lovrin, I agree with you, there are judges of the media, and that is evident. Look at the paper, open up, you know which judge will turn out to be the good guy in the media, who will turn out to be the bad guy. Then look at the processes that should be, look at the announcements that were, look at it, let's say Kamensko. Look at Kamensko, and when the records of the violations were saved by the owners, it was known that certain judges would be written, it was known that they would be written about the state's attorney. In Croatia, everything is known and eyes are closed before all these troubles and heads are buried in the sand. Of course, when I was talking about the powers I was just talking about media powers, tycoons, huge capitalists. There are no powers among the workers, there are no powers among teachers, there are no engineers, but there are known where the powerful and these powerful today enjoy such freedoms. Not only that, there are political powers whose sons end up in traffic accidents, the cause of a fatal accident, they are not convicted because they are from good families. Those judges are still on trial. It's a shame! Imagine how the parents of these children who are not from prominent families feel, and the reputation in Croatia is money. Reputable members of society are pillars of society, they are the ones who have anointed the most money. They're on the front page. And judges in Croatia, not all honour to those who don't, hang out with those pillars of society and it's all not one pillar big but one big bar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24953	Thank you very much. The next is the individual debated representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24954	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers and Associates. I have volunteered to make sure that words that have been spoken on many committees will be spoken, but I will not repeat them because they are spoken. I'd just like to comment on how that happened. The approximation of the views expressed here, in particular concerning the debate on the judiciary in the Assembly, is actually the result of the debate on committees and the approximation of positions. This isn't about some kind of political elite agreement or a party being about an objective demand and a need that we have. Although we've turned from different positions, our conclusions are very similar. They are not divided by ideology, but they are linked by certainly dogmatism and the expectation that the judiciary will work better. Allow me two questions to process the introduction. First of all, the question in which these laws are passed is not just about this law, it's about 10 laws that we've discussed and which we're going to discuss. The real context of the debate is, in fact, a report on the monitoring of the European Commission that makes commitments, and the Croatian government has accepted them very warmly and the Parliament has accepted these commitments because we have discussed the Monitoring Report several days after its publication and it has actually been promised that appropriate measures will be taken very quickly and I am grateful that this has happened. So this is the real context of our efforts to implement accelerated reforms in the judiciary. Secondly, and here I will agree with you, Mr Vuksic, in fact, perhaps a more important priority, which is the fact that we have a shared view of the judiciary depends on what role we are in. As citizens, we have very bad, often times and we have support for such critical opinions. I have to admit it has a lot to do with the fact that a large number of citizens are addressing the Committee on Justice and the Parliament by asking for reports, haste, seeking to actually correct some of the things they consider to be evident... And it creates an opinion, it creates an impression, a perception of the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The hard words that fall down here are actually the result of the objective problems that exist. Being locked up in a peaceful position that the judiciary has is not good. It was said here, and I'm going to criticise it, that it's a normal reaction to actually refusing to change because everyone would want to stay the way he's doing. It is not, unfortunately, the normal situation is a very difficult situation, it is a large number of quite objectively identified difficulties of delayed cases, cases being resolved or rough actually avoiding public and social responsibility for what is the consequence. I want to warn here that the judiciary has been more than a moment since it became independent, since it is truly independent, and it is guaranteed by both regulations and by the Constitution with us all shares responsibility in all those obligations that we have assumed as a state, and this includes monitoring. Therefore, here it is important to keep in mind that their task is to be first and to encourage change, not to resist them. And let me answer that, because some of the things that have been said here do not come across full consent from those circles. I'll say a few words about immunity first. In 2008 and 2007, this was one of the big topics not only in this House but also in European institutions because it was anachronized to this notion. The protection it provides is actually a certain status. Immunity does not provide absolute protection, it must enable functional independence in this case of judges and I believe that these provisions that you provide and which you propose are quite appropriate, in accordance with the Constitution, in fact with the need to strengthen responsibility and restore trust in the judiciary. Because all those scandals you've been talking about actually have that kind of protection immunity predicts and protection for those cases that would otherwise be forgiven, but here I have to say the regiment should be severely sanctioned and not. It is the defence of the judiciary against such illegal, illegal pressures but should not be exaggerated and I believe that this proposal has found a measure. The second thing I want to say about this is that it seems to be a complete agreement that exists on the fact that once a year, the President of the Supreme Court could submit or report to the Parliament. We are indeed discussing the situation in the judiciary from a completely wrong perspective, discussing certain legal solutions, discussing the state's attorney's report. What we should have is a partner with whom we can discuss the situation in this area, and I think that judges or the Supreme Court are in this impenetrable staircase, and they should have their word possibly sharing with us concerns or at least inform us of the state that exists. Some obstacles and arguments against that are cited. The first is constitutional law, however, dividing the authorities does not mean that the three authorities are judicial, executive and legislative which we can act separately. Our Constitution clearly states that the authorities should cooperate with you. In many countries, the doctrine applies, and also to those who accept the division of the judiciary to which the judiciary should be accountable and report to Parliament. Parliament appoints the highest officials anyway. And let me mention something that has already been said here. So we have institutions that guarantee independence and report it. Both the state's attorney and the National Bank, or the governor of the National Bank. I don't see any harm in having the President of the Supreme Court file a report like that once a year. Not only that, it would be a report coming from a well-informed circle. It would be professionally justified and would be with the full authority of the institution's legitimacy as... because the Supreme Court takes care of the unity of the entire judicial process and hierarchy of courts in the Republic of Croatia. It's only when I'm talking, so we're deciding the judiciary on the details of their actions because we're making laws. Then why avoid discussing the context in which we do so. So we're changing the Law of Prosecution, the Law of Criminal Procedure, the Administrative Procedure, and we can't discuss justice. It's one fiction actually it's a simulation of our responsible debate on the judiciary as a whole. And that's why I don't see these problems that seem like wood and we're looking at and we're considering the problem of the forest. To add to that is the problem of balance and responsibility. What is lacking in the Croatian judiciary is the sense of responsibility for the state of the whole. It is not easily said that there is no responsibility on the part of the judiciary for all those failures of economic policy or the economic crisis that exists, which is not a responsibility in this regard in... but certainly a shared responsibility for avoiding consequences. And just another little addition. After all, that was said and the minister is absolutely right. There is no obstacle for us to consider funding the judiciary to consider the issue of, say, the Court of Human Rights and the judgments that we bring there, and there is not only a basis in the fact that we are paying, but in that the Parliament is therefore responding. This responsibility should therefore be shared and this proposal, which has received support from different clubs, should be shared in the final draft of the law. Let me just say one thing for the last time. This debate shows how valuable it is or that this is mankind’s greatest discovery to have a mirror because you cannot judge yourself. The shoes are not judged by the carpenter who makes them, but by the one who wears them. It is also not good for the judiciary to discuss the judiciary only but also those who are its users.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24955	Thank you very much. Here is Mr Orsat Milenic, the Honorable Minister of Justice, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24956	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank you first for the support we got for the law. Absolutely all the remarks that have been made will be taken into account. I'll just look back at a few of them. So maybe I should say something first. Secondly, here I cannot accept the thesis that the judiciary is corrupt. It is not corrupt there are incidents as exist in all other segments of society in the judiciary it is certainly no longer any less. Of course, however, it must be better than others, and that is why this law ensures that certain mechanisms do not process it. But we can't set ourselves up like that is one thing. Secondly, we're talking about commenting, we're talking about influences. We have one fiction created that we must not comment on the inadequacy of judgments. I don't really know where it says to be honest. We have professional judges. I don't see how a comment can affect a professional judge. He gets the money, it's the second in countries that have a jury, where he can influence jurors who are laymen, where they can be determined. We have professionals. So there's no further witness to the inadmissible verdict. And we do live, and sometimes we all run away from it together because we're not going to say anything because it's the most convenient thing to say is we're not going to comment on an inadmissible verdict. Of course, the minister's position is different here, but I'm generally talking about a position in society. As for this proposal to file a report, I must say we've been thinking about it. I'm very glad there's one agreement in that direction. It's certainly one thing that we're going to work out in the law at the end of the line, and we understand this as our obligation, given that all clubs are behind it. It will certainly contribute I would say something that is used by us in many ways and which is very important transparency. So it's not a flossula. All you can talk about is a good thing. These problems can be seen, they can be affected. What this law brings, I may not have pointed out, it brings both the information business and the responsibility of the judges for it. You will very soon all citizens will be able to enter their case by one click and see what is happening in it, they will see when they are scheduled for hearing, when they are not, they will see who is at which judge, how long it took him from one stage of the procedure to come to another. So it will also contribute. Reports, of course, in perspective, have no reason not to be transparent and available to the public, not to the ministry, they do not serve themselves, but it is the public who will see and who needs to judge certain things. So I absolutely thank you for everything that's been said. One line, it was a question of judicial advisors. Yeah, there's about 700 of them, 75 of them at the state school, so that's kind of it. As for the director, we are assessing at this point to be slightly less than 20, meaning between 18 and 20, but since we intend to round further courts, that number will increase. So at this point, let's count to about 18, but it's going to increase. On deadlines, we can also get along, but the deadlines for a reasonable deadline should always be watched by that court with 5 people and the Zagreb municipal with almost 1000, so we may have gone on longer terms, we will consider, we can cut it short, there is no problem. Immunity. We've talked a lot about him, he's a constitutional category, he exists in the Constitution, the question is how in the law to work it out. What we have given through this and limited functional immunity, so we want to say that what has been done and said during the procedure, during the presentation of opinions and making decisions to prosecute it requires the consent of the DSV, the approval of the DSV. So it's not an absolute immunity that no one can be punished for it, it's just said if a criminal offence was committed but that a judge would have arrested or initiated a criminal procedure needed the DSV's consent. And we think it's good at this stage because it's not an immunity that's absolute, it only limits to this functional part. So for a car accident, for stealing, there's no immunity for any other act. We've been thinking about immunity in private lawsuits that are common and that's one thing that you see here how we suggested and we were on the scale. On the one hand, why, it doesn't make sense, why don't we be like all the other citizens, so I repeat, we're not talking about absolute immunity anywhere, we're just talking about whether or not the procedure can be initiated with someone's consent, here with the agreement of the DSV, yes or no. But then we saw the following, especially now that we have a lot of small courts you with, say, filing a series of slander lawsuits that don't have to be founded at all, you can eliminate the whole court because when such proceedings are conducted, that's the reason for the exception and you don't have a court. And the defendants through this way can manipulate and can avoid a possible trial somewhere they don't want to and it's a real danger and we've had such an attempt. It means that some lawsuits are filed that will be resolved once, but that's the reason for the exemption that automation is granted because it has to, because two people are in the process against each other and that's the problem. So that's why we decided on this solution, which is, as I would say, we've thought a lot about it. So I repeat, I'm glad for your support, everything you said will be considered a second reading. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24957	Thank you, Minister. Two replicas to your final exposure. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24958	Thank you very much. Even though the Ministers agree with you, it's an incredible ease to generalize and to defile someone so badly that the whole profession is corrupt. It's not good, there's good and bad in every profession, there's a series of extraordinary judges who actually work. And what needs to be pointed out and perhaps not known, is that the judicial profession is one of the most supervised professions because here is the Ministry, and others can click at any moment and see exactly what the judge is doing, and also the monthly control of his work. If you were to control the work of every civil servant, maybe the administration would be more effective, but I didn't want to say it. You told Mr. Minister that there was no way to comment on an inadmissible verdict. Right, it doesn't really say anywhere, and of course people, and especially politicians, often when they don't have a convenient attitude, are somehow justified because it says there's a danger of being told that we are then influencing a court ruling. What could be prevented in your portfolio somewhere, which is that the judges themselves come to the media or don't give God on television and there comment on their own verdict or defend it in a solution to the press, so I don't think it's the place for the judge to keep his rightful word and his argument in court and that's the case, and of course the best anti-corruption drug is certainly transparency. And as we can today in land-book procedures click on one to enter our object and see exactly where we lie and how long we lie and where the car is. If one day citizens can do this with their litigation case, it will be the best cure for both acceleration and removal, I will not say incompetence because I dare say it without evidence, but removing suspicion of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24959	And the next replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24960	Dear Minister, I agree that you have the right to disagree with me, and also colleague Anna Lovrin spoke earlier about it if society is corrupt you can't rule out that the judiciary isn't corrupt. I wasn't talking about the whole judiciary being corrupt. Yeah, we're a corrupt state, but there's one unsuspecting segment of you, and that's the judiciary. Then it's all right. Then I'm sick of it. Why are we improving? Yes, the judiciary is corrupt, which is what the public thinks. Yeah, I didn't point anybody in the forehead. Well, the system is as corrupt as society is corrupt, and so has HDZ's power to be corrupt. After all, we know what was done for eight years, nothing was done. It's part of the criminal trial. And some cases have come to court, but they've never been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24961	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24962	Proposed law on courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 217. The debate on the text of the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the draft law on courts is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24963	And we move on to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, First Reading, P.Z. No. 216. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24964	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. So there is one of you, all the laws are important, but there are those who are truly fundamental and who affect many citizens. This is one of those laws. Of course, the question will be why, again, are some obligations towards the EU, monitoring etc. I'd say they didn't. We need to secure an effective judiciary, we need to contain the backlogs. We have to give citizens a better service and that's something we have to do for ourselves. This is the law that brings solutions and far beyond when that monitoring is complete. This is something that's the future. I'm sorry we're in a situation where we're one of the countries that might be late for this. Many countries, even countries in the environment, even those easter than us, have done some of these things a long time ago. So, before you are the amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure whose basic intensities affect these tens of thousands of subjects that I have been talking about for more than three years. It also refers to civilians, classical civilians and trade disputes. So here we can also talk about what affects us, meaning not only the citizens but also the companies. This is the law I'm going to start, and I'm going to be, so the first and most basic intensity that we're introducing through it is discipline in the process, and that's what we've been missing. So far, there have been theoretical possibilities to carry out some of these things, but they were not obligations. We are now introducing it as a commitment. The law will feel citizens through their faster procedures, but it will be cheaper. Many who were against him and were and resisted may lose some of the profits where there would be much less litigation, much less cost than before. So, what does the law bring? Concentration of the procedure. If you're suing someone, you need to know why you're suing him and giving him all the evidence with a lawsuit. It is impossible and unacceptable what is happening today that after 10 hearings remember something you knew already. It's the same thing with the answer to the lawsuit. That's why we're extending the deadline. So, for the answer to the suit, it's kind of a long term, but that's why everything has to be given. After that, the previous hearing is the preparatory hearing. What's that for? That the judge who must then read the case sees and actually decides what evidence he will carry out. After that, we have a main debate and the story ends. What's important here is we introduce each of these phases and I'm going to say something about the final stage of oral call. It is not only because the Ministry of Justice, so the judiciary pays more than 60 million kuna a year for postal services, but it is a waste of time. Citizens are wasting time on written invitations. There is no reason not to determine at each hearing when it will be next. There will be a terrible gain in speeding up, I say, and in this financial section and the process ends in such a way that you will find out when the verdict will be announced to you. It must be within 45 days of the conclusion. But not that it's going to be published, but you're going to get it written that day. Your deadlines have been running since that day, but you'll get it written. What's going on today? Well, we had, so our inspection when it worked, that's what it used to be. We have a situation that's been announced, and after two years, it hasn't been written and sent. The party can't complain. She didn't get a solution to her dispute. So, two years after everything was spent. It's absurd. There won't be any more of that. So that's maybe the most significant newspaper we get here. That one short-term party discipline. The parties must take care of their interests. The judge also has to ensure this discipline. Next, small-value disputes. We're expanding some of the provisions that concern, say, free-range evidence. We can no more for 100, 200 kuna to carry out the full procedure as we have so far. Because it's just so nature that we can't afford it. In particular, it concerns the court's authorisation, which means that, at the discretion of its judge, it assesses the evidence of which the determination would be related to the immeasurable costs, longevity, etc. But I only say in small disputes. Next, one thing I don't believe is that, I know that the citizens were deeply irritated, but it was actually a big problem. Such objects are about 17% in the system. These are multiple-removal objects. So you get a conviction, goes to the high court, the high court cancels, goes back to the first degree, first degree re-judges, again to the second, re-deposits. Sometimes that's the way it is. I say 17% of such objects. He's gone. One suspension after that, the Supreme Court must decide. We give the higher court a mechanism like that. So he's either going to conduct a hearing that won't normally be necessary, but if he thinks there's any evidence that he's not going to order a lower court to carry out exactly that evidence or he's going to carry out a reporting judge. So that's one discipline, that's what we need to stop that collapsing that goes beyond measure. Court counselors again, people have finished law school, they have justice, we're increasing the power of their decision. They're high-quality people, and they should have greater authority. In particular, I note, it is primarily about monetary claims. So I'm not talking about some status stuff right now, some kind of thing that goes into some kind of rights deeper than what's conditionally simpler where it's actually about money search. In these cases, we are leaving the council, so the individual judge will decide on the appeal procedure. There's no need for a council. Three judges, no. It's expensive. Judge One will decide. You have the capacity times three means. What three people decide today, they can solve three times as many objects. So we'll speed things up. We're expanding into some things the jurisdiction of commercial courts. What I'd like to say is that this is connected to our executive that we brought. We've relieved the trade courts of their full performance. The executions are going, they're doing better, but now we're putting some other jurisdiction on them. So, let's go to balance. Something, every law we make he leans on the one before. So that's the one picture that's being taken. Delivery, we've been thinking about what, not just because of the cost, but because of the speed again. Electronic delivery so far in commercial courts. Why? They're companies, they represent themselves, they're represented by lawyers, they're notables, there's no reason not to commit them to doing business in another way. There's no reason for someone to do business on a market today that doesn't work like that. Second, we're leaving the institute of holding proceedings. The parties have been able to manipulate, delay procedures. We cut important deadlines in the law you see which, but in principle, deadlines are shortened. We're introducing one thing, meaning that when the deadline expires once, it extends from the end of that previous deadline. So that's some sort of sketch of what's in front of you. Of course, this law will also require adjustments. Now I can say two things that are ahead of you that are going to change between the two readings, so a little later will come into effect than is predicted because it still takes a little more time for this. I'm talking about the moon here, two so it's not much. And one thing we really want to change is that it's specific to trade procedures, but unfortunately a common situation, we're all exposed to abuse when citizens or companies, in fact companies, value-added taxpayers dispute the delivery of some goods, and at the same time they got back taxes for the same goods. So we'll also do it more precisely. The burden of evidence will be transferred, it's not there but it will be. So in those cases you can't say I didn't get that stuff and so run the procedure for years, and from the state you asked for a tax return and you introduced it into your books. So, it's gonna be there, I'm saying it's not gonna be in front of you right now. It's gonna be in the second reading. Anything else, suggestions that have been made so far, and in the future here, we will consider them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24965	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We start with clubs. SDP club and colleague Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24966	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Before I move on to the debate on the essence of the changes brought to us by the new Law on the litigation procedure that lies ahead of us in the first reading, let me look back at the recent novels of this law. According to the May 2011 paper, the litigation procedure was not more systematic and comprehensively reformed. Such a reform procedure was carried out, i.e. by a novel from 2003, while the 2008 text was segmentally modified, i.e. some institutes of the litigation process. This is mainly the opinion of the profession, i.e. the opinion of the professional public. Last year's novel referred to some ways of further developing the litigation process, i.e. modernising it and adapting it to new means of communication. It has also been completely processed, although without any dramatic changes to the Institute of Audit and the institutions of withdrawing the suit and court settlement have been arranged. Thus, last year's novel made certain steps in the litigation process, but they did not produce a sensitive result in what was recognised by the European Commission as the problem of the Croatian judiciary, and these are the remaining unsolved cases. In this direction, some existing institutes, such as dedicated delegations, have been used in a strengthened way, and in this year it is clear that, without amending the Law on the Procedural Procedure, greater speed and easier to conduct the litigation process simply cannot be achieved. It is precisely because of the clear intention of functionalisation, acceleration and reduction of the costs of the litigation process that we welcome these changes and additions. In particular, I would like to highlight the following procedures in the Law on Prosecution. Therefore, the rest of the proceedings as an archaic institute of litigation proceedings is abandoned which will contribute to the acceleration of the proceedings and which has unnecessarily stalled the litigation procedure in the period even up to a year. In order not to obtain the impression that legal changes speed up the procedure at the expense of the principle of litigation and of the harm of the parties, it is also necessary to mention that the correction of the procedure in all or in disputes of small value enables the preservation of the principle of seeking material truth by introducing the previous procedure in all types and adapting the rules on the implementation of new facts and the proposal of evidence in case the parties could not, without their guilt, bring them earlier. The aim of this correction is to maintain the principle of looking for material truth while taking away the instruments of delaying proceedings that the parties have used in practice very skillfully. That sufficient time is left for parties to collect evidence and extend the time limit for responding to the complaint which, at the same time, may significantly extend the procedure itself but will not be the case. The paper is also a ban on multiple suspensions of first-degree judgments, or its extension to all types of cases that will fully eliminate its kind of ping-pong effect of abolishing and returning cases to re-delivery by second-degree courts. Since it was before us before this point of the agenda and the proposal of the Law on Courts, I propose that this opportunity be considered by the Minister and his associates to impose an obligation on the second-degree court that, when the first-degree ruling is lifted, it must state the infringements detected or the lack of a first-degree verdict, which could then further improve the work of the first-degree court on the case which was returned for the purpose of the termination of the decision. I think this would have additional positive effects on the quality and speed of the process. Of the more important changes, it is also worth mentioning the prominent increase in the value criterion of the disputes in which the court advisor judges. This amendment represents a kind of legalisation of already existing practice which has proved to be good and effective, and because of mentoring and control of the work of judicial advisers by judges, therefore does not suffer the quality of such decisions. In the second step of the procedure, the introduction of a judge to a three-judge council will significantly relieve the work of county courts in disputes for payment of monetary demand. It is also necessary to mention amendments to the rules to be submitted... which, in addition to the discharge in financial terms, will further speed up the procedure and, for the court as well as for the parties and the proxies in the procedure, facilitate the work on cases. I do not consider it a revolution but a logical elimination of the excessive institutes of litigation proceedings which in practice made it difficult and slowed down the procedure and very rarely reflected the party's true will to temporarily suspend procedural activities, which was a standstill and was a real point. If there was indeed a will to end procedural activities and to resolve the dispute, the parties always have the possibility of a peaceful settlement of the dispute or other dispositive actions in the process leading to the end of the dispute. In particular, I will also point out that calming down as an alternative way of resolving disputes that unfortunately did not take advantage of the parties because they did not take advantage of it enough. They remain inclined to seek their rights before the court, even though they are aware of the longevity and cost of the proceedings. In conclusion, we believe that the amendments and additions to the Law on the Procedural Procedure are very positive and welcome, and I hope that they will be recognised as instruments for improving the efficiency and speed of the settlement of cases by judges, proxies and parties themselves, so that we can, for our own sake, and not only because of the European Commission's objection to the problem of back-loging or resolving the cases left behind and to ensure that citizens have quick and effective protection of their rights before the courts. The SDP club will be happy to support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24967	Thank you very much. It's the HDZ Club and colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24968	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. So here we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prosecution. We are discussing a law as great as the Law of Criminal Procedure, so one fundamental law of the judiciary. Although interest isn't too much to see, but here. It's a law that actually takes over a law that so far has 11 amendments. All these amendments to all these 11 have actually been amended by law with one goal, which is to speed up the procedure for citizens to arrive at their own river as soon as possible, of course while ensuring legal certainty and ensuring that material truth can be properly ruled out. We can change laws and write whatever we want, but I'm afraid if there's no systematic surveillance in the implementation of that, we won't get far again. In fact, it is true, and we see that any further changes teach us about the events in the implementation, and then maybe we put in a little bit of bigger fuses to make it happen. Here you have told colleagues, for example, that it should be prescribed that when a second-degree court abolishs the verdict to then and says exactly why and how, it says so in the CAP now. If a procedural injury has to say exactly what it is hurt, if an unconfirmed factual condition has to say precisely in relation to which circumstances it is why and how it is not and is not referred to a first-degree court which and how it has been implemented in the retrial procedure. Yeah, it's all good writing, but there's no sanctions. If a second-degree court doesn't do it, and only because that day doesn't get him to work and go back, there's absolutely no sanctions. I came to the County Court at the time when I was on occasion and I had to check it out by work, because it was noticed that a large number of suspension decisions were made because it was, of course, simpler than metrically decided, and then I said that the next thing we're going to do, we're going to be running statistics on the number of abolished decisions, and all the judges of the county court said in one vote we have, but I say to my colleagues not for municipal courts but for your statistics as much as you've abolished. Of course, each or most of them goes in a line of less resistance. Not everyone is so unconscious, but it happens when the occasion is like that, and that's why I mentioned this as just an example of a colleague that it's easy to write, but it's supposed to be carried out. So here, this is one further effort to accelerate. I think the most important thing in this amendment and supplemental proposal is that it will force the parties to, if they want the word of the court to take this trial seriously, not to be able to delay their proceedings or their negligence, and then to remember after how many years it takes them to do so now and immediately want a word of law because we don't forget, some things in the process both in litigation and in the country-book depend solely on it, they have to be initiated by the parties, so they can't happen differently. We are therefore now proposing these amendments to prevent such disposition to the parties, to put the proceedings at rest, etc., to concentrate the procedure, what has been introduced for small-value disputes by the 2008 changes. I believe that the Ministry of Statistics has found that it has a certain effect and therefore proposes it now and for all procedures. Therefore, it introduces a strict restriction on the delivery of new facts within a limited time limit, i.e. in the previous procedure and ban on the presentation of new facts and evidence unless it has been presented, unless, of course, everything by the principle of determining the material truth if there are reasonable reasons, or if it has been out of the party's power and has not been able to present it previously. Also in small-value disputes, it is now back again, so before they have to present all the facts and evidence and spread the free one, as the minister has already said, an assessment of the evidence. It's good and keep in the final text this extended deadline for answering the complaint because we said that when this focused procedure is really the one who sues it has time to think about its legal position, about gathering evidence etc. And when he's ready, he sues. The other defendant may be surprised by the situation, so he needs time and time to get his evidence. This ban on multiple suspension, I have already said, has already been considered for a long time, there have been some resistance in the judicial circles about not having the conditions to conduct a maybe debate, etc., but in November 2011 it was introduced for work, family and trade disputes and probably there is a practice of these I do not know what it is, not even a year but it may have been possible to see if it yields any results. Obviously, if this proposal is in front of us today. We heard the ministers now, you answered my question about how many court advisors there are, so here's the answer, and it turns out that about 600 judicial advisors will stay in a system that won't become judges because they won't have a judicial school. It's a really valuable piece and I don't know if you've thought about using them not only in this independent, somewhat independent resolution in these cases which are listed by the Courts Act. Have you considered perhaps solving more complex cases, especially in the litigation process, that some more experienced litigators, judges, so we certainly have experienced judges who tend to be county judges primarily for wages, I would say that because some judges like to be great litigators, they like to remain litigators, whether they were thinking about introducing two paying classes to judges, and those more experienced judges to be for difficult cases, and that they also have to help these court counselors who would help them solve this case. I think it's something worth paying attention to. Here's to all the other changes that you're here for, here's the big change, but you summed them up well in terms. Of course it's important that you make an identification number for everyone. That's where we'll solve that dilemma that tortured us very much when we change the name by the Personal Name Act, and that'll all be solved by the mandatory introduction of an identification number. I asked you a question about the costs, and I was told that there would be talk in the next changes. I was afraid, and we were afraid, and as a club, that something happened in the Law on Administrative Disputes yesterday, unfortunately, and unfortunately for us, it will probably be voted tomorrow, and these are decisions on costs in administrative disputes, and we keep this proposal completely unfair, unfair, that someone who sues the state for not giving him his right to do so and to prove that the state was wrong at the end has no right to do so. But when he sues another fellow citizen in a litigation, then when he loses his dispute, he will charge for all that she had. Let us not forget often about disputes of great value, in tax matters, for example, and it is really not fair that a state that has disputed a citizen's right twice, then once again in a court procedure and when that citizen proves it cannot settle its costs. I hope something like this doesn't happen in this process. But here's to repeat, for speeding up the process and for these further, further efforts in the text of the CAP, we will support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24969	Thank you. The replica of Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24970	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, and I agree with your debate. I'm just going to look back on that little part where you looked back at my part of the presentation where I suggested that the minister make a commitment to the judges of the second-degree court to state the shortcomings in the first-degree judgment in resolving the appeal. Therefore, I agree that there is also a obligation of the second-degree court to state the infringements committed in the litigation procedure and to state the shortcomings that the judgment has. However, we know that the ZPP, i.e. the Law on litigation, will not impose any sanctions on them by that law, and then other laws are a place where they can be more adequately prescribed. I think it was left at the will of a second-degree court to determine whether or not all the shortcomings in judgment will be found. It's simply not enough, especially in a situation where we have a ban on multiple termination. I think that would be very, very useful if judges were given a very strict obligation to state all the shortcomings they saw in the first degree judgment. In practice, it is often that second-degree courts only determine one breach of the provisions of a judicial procedure that is sufficient to abolish and then state that all others become immaterial when they have already found this one in which they will abolish the first-degree decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24971	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24972	I absolutely agree with you colleagues. It's all written, but it doesn't say sanctions and that's why it stays inconclusive. Equally if it is not now as a tenuous act written somewhere that this if within 45 days it is not published, a verdict is made, etc. The question is, what's it gonna be? And now it says that the judge has to make it within a certain period of two months or how many. There's a deadline for a judge in which he has to make a verdict. But we know that, well, I won't say anything, but in a lot of cases, in many cases, that verdict is not made within that time limit. The sanctions don't have anything at all. A citizen can't help it without talking about these drastic cases where he's been waiting for a few years. So as long as what it says doesn't have a sanction for that, then it's always a matter of implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24973	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the promoter, final justice minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24974	So here I am glad to be able to reiterate my gratitude for the support of the law. Maybe just two, three notes. What's being said, what you're saying is that we're going to try to work it out. But we're going to matter, now they've made it very important to limit this really by banning multiple termination, because when a senior court doesn't clear the instructions, it's clear to him what's going to happen. Next time he'll have to decide for himself. So we'll come to the result that the instructions will be clearer because they have no choice. Either it'll be a lower court or they'll have to do it on their own. There was also one thing about, therefore, sanctions for non-compliance with deadlines. What you're talking about is a disorderly performance of judicial duty. It's a stupendous act. This year, I don't know exactly about it, but I can tell you what we initiated. We have initiated dozens of such procedures precisely because of this and according to current regulations. I won't speculate on the heights of the sentence, it's not up to us. It's an exclusive power of the DSV, but we're doing that and we'll monitor it and wherever we find we go, we'll go with it. You've had the last of the Councils before that whole series of courts. Judges have been processed this year. I'm saying I won't comment on sanctions. Judicial rank. Absolutely the next stage. So let's do what we said, rounding up the courts will lead to us having to edit a system where we can advance within one degree. The number of higher courts will be reduced. It won't just be advanced further, but there's no reason and we want to, so we want to create a system where pay is not a reason to move to a higher court. There are people who want to stay at first degree who are good litigators, which is a pity lost. So we're going to, that means our plan, we're going to talk about next year and that year behind, that we're going to develop a system in which at one level not in two classes, in multiple classes, so that someone can start their careers and end up at the end of their career at the lower level, that's actually by paying above the one who's a beginner at a higher level. So that's something that other countries also have that we haven't introduced, and we're going to do the same thing in the pay law when it's all in the set. So that's something that's going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24975	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Tomorrow at 9.30 we begin with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, and at 11.00 we will vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-06-0.u24976	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, First Reading, P.Z. No. 216. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please state who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that we have unanimously 111 votes to reach the proposed conclusion.
