ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9476	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Representatives, colleagues and colleagues. It was announced to begin today with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes. But we're going to do a little inversion and we're going to start - a proposal for a personal name bill, first reading, P.Z. No. 92. We have Minister Bauk here. So, the proposal for a law on a personal name, first reading, P.Z. No. 92. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Minister Arsen Bauk, Minister of Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9477	... MPs on this law, therefore, were also consulted with the interested public, debates were held on committees. [[Specially enabled.]] I would like to express my satisfaction, therefore, that the discussions have shown that they were unanimous in fact proposals to support the law and that, of course, some of the solutions that are still under the law are still being considered and we define for the final proposal what needs to be defined. Otherwise, since this is the first law I propose in the ordinary procedure and as minister on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it is citizens' rights, this Law certainly defines it. Our proposals will always be something more liberal than perhaps a final solution so that even in the debate at the Croatian Assembly, we can consider some issues and explain to ourselves why the state needs to restrict in one part the citizens in something that is their fundamental freedom, simply to see what is the limit of acceptance where the state should interfere in some personal state of citizens. So in this law, we have several dilemmas that I believe will define and resolve this debate. Something about the law. The existing Law on Personal Name was adopted at a session of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia's House of Representatives on 14 October 1992. So here's the law going to be in force for almost 20 years. The provisions of that law provide that the personal name shall consist of the name and last name and that the name or last name may consist of more than one word. Furthermore, a person whose name or name or name or last name consists of more than one word shall be obliged to use the same personal name in legal traffic, although the law requires that a personal name may consist of several words on behalf of and last name provision of Article 2(4), a limited number of words in the name and last name by which a person may be used in legal traffic. The name and last name of that provision may contain each word for itself at the most two words. Such a legal restriction to a large number of Croatian citizens who were born abroad or who have acquired a last name which consists of several words prevents the use of an entire personal name in legal traffic. The application of the law in particular of Article 2 has identified a number of problems in the application in practice, resulting in different treatment in the authorities of the state administration. At the same time, a large number of Croatian citizens show dissatisfaction with the existing restriction set out in Article 2(4). This restriction has led to the situation that Croatian citizens who have acquired a name by making a marriage consisting of several words, e.g. van der Beg, etc. so that they can use all the words in their last name to change their last name in the administrative procedure in a way that combines two words in their last name into one and all to satisfy the legal restriction and bring their last name into line with the provisions of the law. So this was one of the norms that restricted citizens to choosing a personal name, and we didn't see what value was being protected. Therefore, the State decided to limit itself to this example. During the current application of the law, it has been established that certain legal provisions relating to the very implementation of the personal name change procedure have not been met by the purpose of their existence. In particular, the current law lays down in Article 7 of the obligation on the competent authority leading the procedure to report to citizens on the application for a change of name, i.e. in order for citizens to have the right within 30 days of publication to show their opposition to the amendment application. Furthermore, Article 13(2) provides for the possibility that a person who has changed his personal name may publish that change at his own expense in the ‘National Journal’. The long-term application of the Personal Name Act has shown that citizens have not expressed their opposition to the proposed changes or have used the possibility to publish a change in their personal name in the “National Journal”. Given the fact that the use of a full personal name in legal traffic and the dissatisfaction of citizens has been prevented, initiatives have followed to amend the provisions of the existing law. Respecting the initiatives and complaints received by citizens, this proposal for a personal name law does not provide for a legal restriction on the number of words on the name and last name with which Croatian citizens can be used in legal traffic, thus providing them with the possibility of using a full personal name. As a result of the legal restriction, many Croatian citizens made a statement on the name for legal traffic, the bill allowed the withdrawal of earlier statements, which put them in the same position as the other citizens. Furthermore, the bill prescribes only two legal assumptions that must be met in order to approve a change in the personal name, Croatian citizenship, and that a person is not subject to criminal proceedings which will simplify the very change in his personal name. In addition, the proposed provisions of the law will speed up the process of changing the personal name. In fact, the request to change a personal name no longer needs to be placed on the body’s advertising board and the expiry date of 30 days in which citizens can show their opposition to the proposed change in their personal name. In this way, in a very short time, the party's request can be resolved, there are no legal deadlines that must pass before a decision on the request is made. It would also point out the problem of a trans-born person or a sex-changer if that fact had been reported on the ad board for 30 days, which allowed those persons to experience again, hence certain inconveniences or personal problems and because of such norms. The bill extends the legal period for a year in which a spouse can return to his last name at the time of marriage. The extension of this deadline will reduce the need to change the last name in the administrative procedure and pay the administrative fee. Of course, after the end of a year, an old name can be returned but in a regular procedure, not in such a way as to say simplistic and accelerated. Now the deadline was six months. The paper in the current law provides for an exception to Article 6(3) of the proposal to change the personal name which is granted to a Croatian citizen under the regulations of another country and which is no longer used because it has acquired a new personal name is entered in the queen of born without conducting the process of changing her personal name. Many Croatian citizens in other countries changed their personal name in the process, and after that they made marriages, or changed their personal name again. Under the provisions of the existing law, Croatian citizens change their personal name before the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia. In concrete cases, this means that if a Croatian citizen has changed his name twice or twice abroad so that changes can be made in the national queens, so that the other citizen records in the Republic of Croatia must change the personal name as many times as the change has been made abroad by waiting for a period of at least 5 years from the last change for each change. The draft law does not provide for a legal deadline that must pass since the last change of personal name. However, insisting that citizens seek changes to names in those who no longer use them have acquired new personal names abroad, and all for the purpose of resolving their personal status in the Republic of Croatia there is no justification. I would also like to highlight some of the dilemmas that we had when we passed the bill which we will certainly have to say so to resolve and decide on solutions in the final draft of the law and I believe that we will help in this respect and debate in the Assembly. So the first question is obstacles to changing your personal name. So far, it has been a norm that there is no criminal procedure and that the legal consequences of convictions, etc. It is therefore defined in this proposal of the law that it is the person against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted. I believe that in the final draft of the law, this norm will be something more precise to avoid and a kind of abuse that if it is guided by a private slander suit, etc. that you can't change your personal name. We are also considering changing the name in these cases but with the permission of the court because to avoid the possibility of someone changing his name to avoid punishment or to avoid any other circumstances. It also raises the question whether the law needs to put a general norm that exists now, which is a general norm that makes it impossible to change a personal name if necessary to protect public security, morals or the rights and freedoms of others. So, it's one norm that would, in any case, allow state authorities to prevent any extreme, say, such a situation if someone wanted to be called by a name which, for some reason, is a historical example by any of the world's war criminals or, for example, by name of someone from some scientific fictional series, so that we have a person named seven out of nine or so, one of the norms that still need to be put into law in order to allow the state authorities to react to some really extreme situations in which they have to bear in mind that, in such cases, the final decision will be made by the court because we also have cases that some personal names that have "not" passed through administrative proceedings in the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court has estimated that there are no violations of the rights and freedoms of others. And of course, there's always a question of why a person who had that name before some circumstances can't be called that in five years. What's changed? It has changed exactly the understanding and public security of moral rights or freedoms of others. It is, of course, the intrusion of the state into individual rights, but we believe that in this case there could be some justification. I say in the end, the court will still make a final decision in those cases. The next norm that would also be good to discuss, is whether to define a deadline in which a personal name can be changed to prevent someone from changing every three months. I don't see basically what a state would lose by changing a person's personal name every three months, so that constitutional values would be protected by that restriction. A person would have more problems anyway, she'd have to change all the documents, etc. but the question of whether to limit it and put on some deadline. It is now 5 years, whether to reduce it to 3 increase to 10, experience in European countries and solutions are different. And another question that would also be good to discuss is the age limit of a child for whom his consent should be sought to change his personal name. In this proposal, for 14 years, there was an idea in the public debate that it would be even 6 years, so that the age limit would be reduced because it is considered that when a child goes to school that already any change in identity or personal name without its consent would also have certain consequences for the child. But I'm saying it's also a matter that both with the D.A. and perhaps with the D.A. should still be discussed when the final bill is passed. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we've had some dilemmas and shared them with MPs, and I believe it's a good approach and we're going to get good suggestions for making a final bill. Once again, I thank all those who participated in the debate on committees that supported the bill and, of course, thank all those who will participate in the debate and, if necessary, we will continue to engage and explain some of the standards that are now in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9478	I thank Minister Bauk. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9479	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. First of all, let me point out on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club that we support this law. It is a quality proposal, a proposal that corrects many, I would say, perhaps even mistakes, perhaps even too strict norms that existed in the current text of the law. So first of all, I'm going to highlight certain positive sides of this bill. In particular, it removes the two-word limit in the personal name and last name of the person we consider unnecessary and represented one relic of the past. Furthermore, the deadline for a change is extended, or a return to the last name before marriage, which was spoken of by the respected Mr. Minister. What I personally consider to be very, very important is the fact that a very simple procedure for changing a personal name is being simplified. As is known in the current text of the law, the change of personal name was I would say quite complicated. It included the need to state the reasons for changing the personal name, including the need to publish a personal name change on an advertisement board that we all feel was not necessary and that it was one restriction on the freedom and rights of citizens, a freedom guaranteed among other things by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Finally, this proposal modernises the text of the law, adapts to the current Croatian literary language, throws out certain standards that have long ceased to exist, etc. For all this I have pointed out, I believe that we should certainly support this law, but we also need to discuss certain confusions, certain problems which Mr. Minister and the expert public pointed out above. Namely, as I pointed out, the freedom of choice or the freedom to change a personal name has been guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, however, both the European Convention and the practice of the European Court of Justice found that this freedom cannot be complete or that every country has the right to restrict such freedom in a certain way. The European practice in this regard is different, in fact only one country, the United Kingdom, and that England as a component of the United Kingdom allows for full freedom in the choice of a personal name. Some other countries go to extremes, for example, Finland even has a list of Finnish, Finnish-Swedish, Swedish or orthodox names that may be used. Of course, we feel that such a restriction would be inappropriate, but it is certainly necessary to consider whether or not it is useful to allow complete freedom in choosing both the child’s personal name and the personal name when it is changed. In fact, we have some examples and celebrities who have changed their names, so a basketball player in the United States, for example, is now called World Peace. As cute as that might be, I think there's a possibility of going to another extreme. This bill does not impose any absolute restrictions on the change of personal name. Any one of us can decide here and, among other things, break the record set in the book of Guinness, or recorded in the book of Guiness, and put in its name 200, 300, 400, or as many words as it wants. However, we believe that such freedom should be limited by not insulting two things that we absolutely must protect, which is the right personality of the child and the social value of which the minister spoke. So we believe that it should be possible to control the giving and the changing of the name. Furthermore, the question of time constraints is raised. The fact is that at first sight there may be no obstacle for everyone to change the name every 30, 40, 50, 60 days or whatever he wants, however, any such change in his personal name pulls back and a certain engagement of the state apparatus. That's the kind of engagement that costs. The change in the personal name must be recorded in queens, delivered to competent authorities, tax administrations, etc. We think it would still be necessary at least once more to consider whether to set a time limit in which, after a change in the personal name, this change in the personal name cannot be requested again. And finally, the question of the conditions under which change will not be allowed. The proposed text of the law provides exclusively that a change will not be allowed when criminal proceedings are conducted against a person and whether, in a private case, whether on a proposal or on an official duty. We think it would be necessary to return to the previous, or existing legal solution that it is exclusively a criminal procedure under official duty. However, criminal proceedings mean that there is only a suspicion that a certain person committed a crime, that he is guilty. In the present bill, there was a possibility, i.e. there was a ban on changing the name while a person served a prison sentence, that is, while there were effects of a powerful criminal conviction that was declared guilty. We think that maybe that solution should come back into the law. And the last thing the minister also pointed out is a question of age when a minor's consent will be sought to change his personal name. She was raised from 10 to 14 years in this bill of law. We think that this may be a little extreme and that if not already on that proposal, which is highlighted by the expert public, which is the suggestion that the age limit should be reduced to 6 years at least keep what is in the existing law, so that the age limit remains the one of 10 years. Finally, we believe that in the case of this bill, it is a very good proposal, but which should be considered once more before adoption, of course, and we are doing this debate today and it is necessary to see whether, in the event of a change in the personal name, that is, if a personal name is given, it is necessary to give this complete freedom which is given by this law to limit and, above all, to protect both the right to the personality of a minor and the social value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9480	Thank you. The positions of the HDZ Club, I'm sorry, we first have one correction to the incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9481	In the back row, you can hear it, but you don't understand what they're saying. We have appealed since the beginning of the Parliament, yet it has not been fixed, to really hear the debate and the presentation of Mr. Minister. But I've noticed that you're talking here in my opinion about the wrong concepts. Change of name and last name is not a change in identity, but an identification. Identity doesn't change, man stays what he is, and he can change identification. So instead of changing identities, you should talk about changing identification where a man with something is being identified, with a name, last name, nation, party, class, but he stays the same. If I were in Paris, my name would be Jean, but my name is Ivan. So there's no change in identity but identification it's in the official name like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9482	I thank you, too. In the name of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It is probably one of the more favourable ministerial duties when it comes to a plenary session with a law that everyone seems to support, i.e. there are no major disputes about some issues being modernised, arranged differently from the solutions so far, and that a law that is one of the older laws of 1992 simply and due to the passage of time must experience certain changes. So I will say on behalf of the HDZ Club because we share an opinion with the ruling that this law was necessary to change, that we will support this legislative proposal, in particular the fact that it goes into two readings which is really rare in the mandate of this government, so there will be time for some norms to be governed more precisely if there is a need, and we seem to have needs. That has already been said in discussions on parliamentary committees. So what we find most valuable in this law is the fact that we've thrown out a norm that really created major problems in legal traffic, that is to say, in the freedom of human beings, which is the fact that so far you could use your personal name and last name only in a way that it was possible to have two words in your personal name and two words in your last name. Of course, it's due to the passing of time, because of maybe a regulation that's '92. For years, she had some arguments to sort out and prevent technical difficulties. This could be discussed by colleagues working at the Ministry of the Interior why the norm restricted people to the use of names in two words on behalf of and two in their last name. And it seems to me that this is a commendable start to settle this issue differently, i.e. by law that freedom allows people the same way as some other legal systems at the end of the line determine a personal name and last name where it is possible to have a lot more words than what our law allows. And so we think it's worth upholding this law, but we have several objections or perhaps one crucial remark. I think he was already talking to a colleague of the coat of arms about it. Therefore, if we understand the law correctly, the exception to the right to change a personal name is found in Article 8 where it states that a change of personal name will not be granted to the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted. Therefore, it is the only restriction under this law in which the competent authority will not approve a change in its personal name and it seems to us that it is a little too broadly left to allow such a change in all other cases. Something the minister was talking about was thinking that they were probably trying to do something different until the second reading. So far, solutions that may not have been the happiest have left one control mechanism that, for certain purely legal certainty in legal traffic, such freedom must be in some way limited, i.e. that the bodies leading the procedure are left with the possibility that, in addition to this exception, for some other reasons, they may not approve a change in their personal name. Well, that's what could be connected even to the elements that are in our other regulations, specifically in civil matters where there is a morale of society as something that is a limiting factor in the achievement of your full freedoms. I think it may have been good to analyse and to say something in the draft of this law, because our practice exists also to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has already dealt with the issues of freedom of citizens, individuals and in this particular case the change of the personal name and last name has stood at the point of view, at least as far as I know, that this individual's freedom may be limited, he found a foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 16 where the Parliament, or the legislator, may not, for certain reasons, challenge the right and freedom to use the name but leave some kind of control mechanism in which all cases, however, citizens will not remain completely free of choice of names which could then violate both the legal order or morals of society. Therefore, it seems to us that such a control mechanism must exist in this law as well. Perhaps he has not been most fortunately corrupt in the existing law that these are the customs of a certain end, the morale of a society, but it can be determined more precisely in which cases it can be denied the change of a personal name and the question of whether such authority, discretionary right to a particular civil servant, or whether it should be left to the parent alone, or perhaps in a very short procedure by a competent authority, rather than by a single parent, have the right to decide whether you can use the requested name or thus be denied. It seems to us that the weakest part of the law, or norm that should be considered until the second reading, is the most weak part of the law. And I believe that it is possible to regulate the procedure to allow for full freedom to choose names, but to leave restrictions for the legal certainty of the rule of law and all that can be read in case that freedom would be so great that it would go to the expense of other people's freedoms, and we believe that it is somewhere within the limits to which it would have to move in such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9484	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists, the distinguished representative Branko Vuksic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9485	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The question is, can the personal name be changed multiple times? This law is liberal, as Mr. Minister pointed out in the introduction. Besides, when I asked myself if it was good, why not? If we can't change anything else, if we can't change in the country, if we can't change in our lives because the state won't let us, because it doesn't allow us by our inaction, then let's often change our name and our name. Dear colleague Don Grubisic said exactly that identity cannot change, we are who we are. The name and last name doesn't determine us, it identifies us, it's an identification. Should great freedoms be allowed in choosing that identification? We can feel what we're not. Politicians often do that, introduce themselves to what they're not. Earlier, a colleague from the SDP asked if he should actually allow some kind of anarchy to choose a last name or too much freedom? I'm sure I mean why not? Why wouldn't we at least be happy about it? If we are not Puritans in many other aspects of life, why would we be Puritans in the ability to choose a name, a personal name? Why don't you let the leprosy go? I'm sure if the law stays the way it is, I'm Bond, James Bond. Finally Croatia will have some heroes, only on paper. We'll have Paiu duck for sure, and we'll have this law. I was thinking about whether it should be allowed, whether it should be limited to what is called and why it should not be changed if it is dissatisfied with its name and last name. He has Branko Čopić wrote a lot about names and last names when people had a nakarad name, they had a common name and when he came to the office where the name and last name changed, you know what came to change the name, not the nakarad name. Therefore, I repeat what Mr Grubisic was saying... That's the point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says the bill says that only this can be prohibited from changing his personal name. It is limited by two things, and it is Croatian citizenship and criminal proceedings. And I agree that it is necessary to specify when in criminal proceedings, to precisely specify when it can be changed and when it is not allowed, in what time and under what conditions. This remains absolutely certain, this is the first reading, one of the few laws that has been released into quite a normal procedure and I think that, I'm adhering to those who support liberalisation in the change of personal name. And I hope that after these laws there will be laws and debates in the Assembly that are really essential and important for the current position of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, and it is really bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9486	Thank you very much. The HNS Club's position will be brought closer to us by distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9487	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, the HNS club absolutely supports this bill, the draft law in first reading and, of course, most of it, I am pleased, it is in agreement with the liberalisation and the possibility that any person, citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia can achieve human rights and their freedom. In what has already been said and said people are best identified, they represent themselves, but they also provide space for minor children with their consent to change their name. Of course, as far as children are concerned, these are always sensitive issues, and the question of the year, and the question at which stage. The child can really identify what identification means with a new name is one of the most sensitive things of this question. And on this point, we feel that we really need to make sure that the older age is, in order for it to be much better quality, that the child’s name is eventually changed. One of the key things here has already been said, and this is the introduction of a legal standard that is always allowed, in this situation, to liberalise true human rights and the rights of citizens and citizens. However, there are always opportunities, but also in this case the need for certain restrictions on the use of opportunities to change the name. Not to repeat what's said, especially when using names that aren't not, let's just say it's so necessary for the public to stand out as a negative historical and a series of others. What is certainly crucial in that segment is how to prevent it, not certainly in a way that is decided by one person, but certainly must exist as in any administrative procedure and second-degree decision, that is, the possibility and appeal of course by the one who wants to change his name. And also one of the essentials of the possibility that can be used negatively when changing the name is the possibility of hiding a particular identity that has already been spoken of here. So how to prevent a person from changing his identity by changing his identity. Not only through representation as a "other person", using a different name, but to use the whole procedure in which it is old, so let's call it the name used not only in criminal proceedings, both in family laws and in property books, etc. It is one of the key problems that should be addressed as well as best and as best as possible with this law, not that we need to make changes and additions to other laws. The intention and desire of us at the HNS club is to avoid all anomalies that could arise and opportunities to hide and open through changes in the identification, i.e. by changing names, other spaces and processes that would agree to solve other situations, from ownership books, from family relationships, from talking about ownership in companies. So there are a series of aspects where changes in names must be tied and secured through and state administration, through the maximum information of a situation where the name changes and the possibility of being also at any time at key moments. And that's what he said, I say companies, tax, ownership books, home offices, justice, health care. That absolutely one thread can be pulled and that normally this person who changes his name cannot hide from that origin, or the first name and last name he had. If we can prevent someone from hiding, then in that segment, it absolutely doesn't matter what the person is called. Normal with the exclusion of those extremes that are absolutely all of course also agreeable. So the biggest task of this is the law to try to solve this problem, and that's the problem for us at the HNS that someone hides with a new name, and that with a change of name they don't create new complications in all processes. Because if someone changes the name should be provided as I said in the Commercial Court if the founder is the owner or director to change according to a particular automatic, that in the ownership papers the same sequence can be written in order to speed up the process, and then that freedom is absolutely not limited, but it is ensured that it is not to the detriment in the essence of society and the whole system. So I absolutely support this liberalisation, the right for everyone not only to have two names but to change them if they need to be multiple times in their lives. But that sequence, that continuity of the first, so to speak the name that is entered in the parent books, he must be written not only in the parent book he must absolutely be seen in all the documents because this is about changing the name, not hiding identification or identity. So it's one of the key things that we can do, and if we can solve it, then we've really done an extraordinary, good job, and we've really made it possible for people to choose their name, to call it what they want, how they love it, and to change it if they need to be more than once in their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9488	Thank you. We will also hear the position of the HDSSB Representatives Club. He will be presented by distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law in the first reading of a personal name. First of all, this law has been too long since 92 to date that some circumstances have not changed in the political, social, economic life of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, the laws in our country should be laws that will serve and serve our citizens. It is obvious that this amendment and the proposal for this law is for the service of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There is no reason not to support this legislative proposal because the legal proposal allows our citizens to choose for themselves in legal traffic what is so far in the position of our club should be decided that citizens and citizens can use their name and name in the legal traffic of the Republic of Croatia in a way that they use the name and last name they choose, not the name and last name they must choose by law. If someone has a name and a last name consisting of more than one word, they should have chosen the last name to be used in legal traffic with the lack of logic to combine words in their last name. So that's what doesn't benefit anyone that the law has to determine what doesn't make sense. We feel that there is no concern about the abuse of this bill nor that there is a need for anyone in this country to hide behind their names and names. We believe that if there is a logical need and a requirement for each of us to choose for himself in any circumstances, whether it is a marital relationship or other relations provided for by law should change his name and last name or add a new name to his name in marriage status. There is no fear that abuses could be done, and there is no fear that someone is unjustly changing his last name because he who is ashamed of his roots and his past does not have a safe future. So that each of us is aware of our position in life, our position in the family, our position in the society in which he lives, so this legislative proposal is the liberalisation of the law but we believe that in the context of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, our citizens should be able to make possible what is present in all modern countries of the world, which is that such complications in the country are not necessary. We also support this change in the law that after making marriages and ending marriages, it is not necessary to pass that 6 months are too little to decide, so the former spouses decide to use their last name rather than that it is good to extend this proposal for a year because it has been shown in practice to pass those 6 months and then people ask for changes in their last name after changing their marital status. There was a great dissatisfaction with the citizens. This legislative proposal goes to the citizens' hands. The possibility is prescribed under the law, but no obligation is prescribed. So, citizens choose whether to use this option by law or not. We also agree with the view that in the case of prescribed legal provisions which are assumptions that must be fulfilled in order for citizens to ask for changes. It is Croatian citizenship and the fact whether or not criminal proceedings are being conducted. In this part of Mr. Minister, perhaps this too wide provision on criminal proceedings really needs to be worked out a little bit so that here in the second reading we might get a better solution. Caution should also be exercised when it comes to the rights of a child particularly young. A good assessment should be made of what is the child’s interest and what is the child’s interest if one of the parents disagrees with the change of last name and the administrative procedure must be initiated. So we certainly support the view that the safety of children, the child's interest on every legislative proposal, should be at the highest possible level. The HDSB Club supports this legislative proposal and we believe that there will be more laws like this that will quickly come to the Croatian Parliament, which will primarily serve citizens because it is really illogical to pass so many years from 92 to 2012 that this law is changing, that citizens have less costs, to speed up the process, to eliminate illogicalities. I think it's time for the Croatian Parliament and us MPs to work faster and in the interest of citizens, and to do less ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9490	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first came to the floor by the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9491	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on a personal name is a small law, but I think it will greatly facilitate living citizens, their everyday lives, and correct one of the illogicalities that we have seen, which we have been pulling since 1992. The name is not just a nominal tag. There's almost a name attached to the person himself. So there has already been a small dispute between Don Grubisic and our minister himself whether it is just an identity mark or not, because the identity of the person exists independently of the name itself. I think it's both right, because throughout history, if we just see that a man without a name almost didn't exist. The Egyptian death sentence said: "And let his name no longer be mentioned, it will no longer exist on earth." The Romans also had special rules on the name and limited it to only three words. Later, the medieval nobility added nicknames. Let's just think of Carl the Great, Pippin the Little, Carlo the Chelavi, Ludwig the Holy, etc. And later on, they came out of those nicknames and last name. Christian canonical regulations were prescribed only after the Trident Council in 1563 under the obligation to lead queens, queens born, married and dead. France, however, is the first to introduce the obligation to keep parent books. In these political areas, it was only Austria that introduced it in the 18th century. But let's just remember in the 20th century after '45. the years the names followed a certain period and we can laugh at them but they always do so either to imitate the names of them Big Brother or from a socialist revolution or some achievements, so then they were entrenched not quite the rare names of Istalinka, Traktorka, Petolite, etc. There is one example in Zadar in a Roma small village where during the 1990s all members, most of these Roma members changed their name to old Croatian names and Dalmatian names that caused the riot in that part of Zadar itself but without success. So this one restriction that's been the most controversial since '92. years that speak of the name of a child being given or changed only as local customs so require. This has caused great challenges and great trouble. And so with great relief for the citizens and for all of us here, we have welcomed the proposal for these changes. This meant that the name that is so personal and as the right of one person depends on one official and his cognitive and intellectual abilities, not to mention intellectual in general. And it caused major recommendations, major disputes and burdened the administrative bodies and their work. And at what point did it happen? This happened just in the moment of not political but political 1990s when the factories had already fallen into foreign ownership, when the workers had to greet Gut Morgen and at the same time were national muscles and determined that the name of the child had to be only in accordance with local customs and opportunities. I think that this bill of law will surely believe so and be until the final reading must be in line with the Family Law, the Witness Protection Act and the Criminal Procedure Act so that all citizens can find everything about this issue in this law. There has been enough speech here already, perhaps small and dissuasive, whether to limit the right of citizens to change their personal name once or several times. I don't think it should be limited in any way if we really want to have a liberal law. But I think there's already a consensus between us that there can be no limit to the name in the sense that such one freedom of a name cannot be absolute. And it's well noticed here, it stands in the Constitutional Court's decision that particularly apostrophes that the individual's freedom is not absolute. It always comes and is limited by the freedom of another. Thus, it seems absolutely unacceptable for parents to have such freedom and to determine the name of a child who is offended by his or her personality that offends public morality. Imagine someone giving their child's name to Ustasha or Adolf Hitler. So that's what bizarreness is, but we have to take care of it. It's the same in determining words. We have therefore known here there has also been a speech that in that case when there are no limited words at all, here is perhaps the strangest move by Dawn McManus which has the longest in the world whose name consists of 161 words, which took it from one protest in essence to draw the attention of society to its humanitarian organization "Red Dreams" to help children founded after the death of its son. We must also take care of what our queens look like. Their space that determines the name is limited. Therefore, it would also cause great costs in determining and printing these queens, which have their own forms regardless of what we get copies in electronic form, but the queens are always written and copied and must be in writing. This should also be taken into account by those spatial elements which must not be negligible. If we want to have a liberal law, then Mr. Minister shouldn't stop halfway. That is why I think of Article 3, which is in controversy with itself and paragraph 1 in those two sentences. "The personal name of the child is determined by the parents in agreement." The personal name consists of a last name and a name. Therefore, in determining the last name, parents must be limited to their own last names. We have cases precisely that parents wanted since they already have two last names consisting of two or three words, so they wanted to give their child a name or name equal, which would consist of 7.8 words and they found a solution to choose a brand-new name for their child. We must not restrict such freedom. It should also be noted that Croatia has since the former state the most advanced legislation regarding the status of its citizens and I think that this should continue to be progressed and that we should not allow others to pass us by. So, respecting this elemental restriction of freedom and dignity and rights above all that child but also public morality. I also note that the name of Article 5 is somehow awkwardly called, returning to the last name before marriage, so I suggest that it be the taking of a last name before the marriage is conducted in a simplified manner. The most disputed provision of Article 6 is that, if we see the restrictions on our citizens in Article 8 against which criminal proceedings can be brought to an end by an acquittal but regardless of the type of last name, therefore, the intensity was proposed in Article 8 to prevent abuses in order to avoid prosecution. However, my intentions seem quite good to me, but if a country can escape because it has changed its name then it really speaks more of that country than of that defendant. Therefore, all these last names must, i.e. all these amendments must be conducted through criminal records, so this requires more networking of the system itself and that is not the problem. However, the disputed provision is Article 6 that someone abroad changes their last name with such intensities, and then comes, these new names are then without any procedure entered into our nuts. It's inadmissible because I'm about to tie it to that, to Article 8 on avoidance. Therefore, change Article 6 at least to put our citizens living here from outsiders in the same status. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] Our citizens can't be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9492	We have two replicas pointed at this exhibit. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9493	I would agree with my colleague that the current law, and in the extreme line, is unspoken or bad, and which is to say to prevent one I would say democratisation and a slightly more liberal approach to change the name and last name. But it is fortunate that this law is in the first reading because it can really happen to us in this departure towards liberal and completely freeness, so I will use a few last names. Someone mentioned Bond, James Bond, Adolf Hitler, Joseph Broz Tito, Epson, Rantes, Don Asyment, Pele, Mattie Loser, so you don't think so you put them in a context of who's good, who's bad. And for a time in Croatia it was that children were named after soap opera characters, Bob... or from these Mexican Jose Miguels, etc. [[You don't understand.]] I believe that this law should and should not wait for the decisions of the Constitutional Court or a certain official in the county offices, in the home offices, that I should simply make one specification to say so or a list of unwanted names so that no one is offended here I will mention my last name, child Osama bin Laden Vinkovic or Adolf Hitler Vinkovic or Giovanni Casanova Vinkovic, not to mention someone else's last name I will mention mine, I will not change it. But I think that this is exactly the ministry through this law, and ultimately, the Croatian Parliament should bear in mind that we are not exactly in this path to liberalising such an anomaly so that we have...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9494	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9495	Thank you. You're pretty jealous, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9496	This replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9497	Well, I think here from your replica follows that there must be some kind of restriction, and we all agreed not to insult our own child first, but also public morality. But it shouldn't limit the freedom of citizens to give names or foreign names or whatever they want unless morals are offended. They come to mind, even though we can agree with that old Latin nomen six omen case that was told to me personally by an old parent, one man came to change his name to Gary Cooper and he told him I'd let you do it but you'd never be Gary Cooper. Then he gave it up because he thought that by changing the name and all of his abilities, one person would enter it. But to threaten liberalisation of what you're talking about in the same way and at the same time that we've allowed all foreign companies since the '90s to register under a foreign name, to even say that workers are forced to speak to us most often here in Zadar and Germany and to welcome guessed because they're from that speech area, and at the same time we've forbidden them the fundamental freedom to determine their own name, or their own child.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9498	Second replica, distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I think you're, as the principles say, the right subject. So, in order to make as good a law as possible, we still need to make sure that some reckless moves do not endanger and perhaps even the future of a child. I remember one case, I was still a child, it seemed to me that the Chinese president was coming at the time... or I don't know who was then or... visiting the former Yugoslavia and then a child was born in Baranja and the parents were in honor of visiting the Chinese president give the child a name now... and I don't know how yet. So that kind of thing can really make life more complicated for the child itself later. And in the end, you've shown fear, imagine that someone to name a child told Ustasha or Adolf Hitler. I'd be just as concerned, now imagine someone nameing a child a Chetnik, a partisan, a Tito, and so on. So you really need to take care of finding a model of limitation...... Like who? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] To find a model of limitation in these articles that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9500	The Prime Minister Arsen Bauk has now come to the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I think that the debates so far have shown that it is good to raise awareness of some things in terms of how many countries should limit individual freedom and why it is done. So I'll answer a few things. First, the possibility of avoiding sanctions based on changes in names. Therefore, the decision to change the name contains information about the OIB and is supplied to the tax administration. After enroling him in the Matica of the born, therefore the OIB system is informed, it goes through the informational path, then the Matica of the married, the Book of Citizens, then the MUP Registration of residences and identity cards, then the list of voters, then the judiciary Penalty records and for men military records. In this regard, therefore, there is no longer any concern that a change in the name would avoid punishment so that this part of the restriction on criminal proceedings will be a little evaluated and perhaps even a little bit more predetermined so that perhaps, with the confirmation of the court and then, with the permission of the court and then, because then, the court might assess the possible circumstances in order to avoid any sanctions. As for these, I will call the special ones not to go into other connotations, of course, at all times there are names that are in line with social customs, norms, and then in 10 years they become inconsistencies, so in 10 years those who were 10 years ago, before 20 return, and human life lasts so long that at least in our spaces and several states and regimes have changed. Thus, each must in some way be given the right to be identified in that way. The question is, what's the value of a state protecting itself by constraint? So for these names that you mentioned, the question is indeed the rights and freedoms of others, because the giving of names by some negative historical figures can be considered in one part by insulting or insulting the freedom of others. But it will always end at the end of the court, and the Constitutional Court has so far been the last to decide in that instance what is or is not a restriction on the freedom of others. I would therefore simply like to read one argument of the Constitutional Court's verdict when it brought down the ruling of the Administrative Court that it was one person, of course I will not say the name and for someone's taste may be strange or unusual but that is our taste, therefore it is not, the state does not have the need to limit someone else to whom it is okay to call it that. The Court therefore assessed whether or not there were infringements of the constitutional rights referred to by the applicant that the administrative authorities and the Administrative Court decided on a concrete request for the approval of changes to the personal name have violated constitutional rights because their decisions, which they requested do not comply with in accordance with the Constitution, in particular Article 16, do not determine whether the changed name required endangers the freedoms and rights of other people, legal order, public morality and health, or if it states that such a change does not comply with the law. The Authority concluded that, in its application, the applicant provided exclusively subjective reasons for requesting a change of name and that this could not be sufficient to deny that application. The reason why someone seeks to change their personal name is subjective and must be questioned as such. The subjective reasons are those which justify the reasonableness of the request with the fulfilment of the legal provisions. So there is the court, the Constitutional Court took one view that yet there should be some other, other things to be fulfilled, and not only that request is not sufficiently well explained, that it is subjective etc. We will also trust the foundations and the next representatives who discuss these norms, which I, too, pointed out in the introduction as some who need to be discussed, will therefore be considered, we will specify them, and when we give the final draft of the law we will have to decide on some norms. So this is a principle debate and I can see that there are no major obstacles. However, when the exact norm is defined by which it will work, then some details may be questionable again, but some law in any case must be passed. I hope that the final draft of the law will therefore have the support of MPs, as did this bill. As for the name of someone named James Bond, Donald Duck or some other name, the question is, why would the state limit someone to that name? What value is being protected by not letting someone call themselves James Bond? Are we going to watch movies if anyone was a bad guy or a bad guy? I think it's a bigger problem than the one that chooses some weird name over the state. The state probably wouldn't have a problem with that. For example, today someone can remember the Croatian team’s play to add to their last name all 11 originals who run for Croatia today. I don't see what the state would have from that, so it would have any damage. This would have to change the documents and decide on what name they will use in legal traffic, as the law therefore requires, because in the ID card, if someone has 153 words in the name, they can't fit everything. And so that will define which name must be used in legal traffic, which will be on the documents. There's so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9502	Two corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9503	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that someone in Croatia can be called Donald Duck or James Bond since they're both protected. And that's what the Minister of Administration should know that no one in those county offices will be able to sign that someone named James Bond is going to pay a very large fine. Also for Paja Duck or for Šilla or for Mini Mouse or for Mickey Mouse because these are characters that are fat and fat protected, copyrighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9504	Second correction, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I would like to stress first of all, here we have already said on behalf of the club that we support this bill, but I am correcting your incorrect quote in just one part when you said there is no state to change a name or not. Not if it's an adult, but we only warn of danger when it comes to determining the child's name. So here's the special emphasis we make on finding an opportunity not to give the possibility of any parents or any third party that the law provides to give such a name to a child that later a child has problems in his life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9506	We're continuing an individual debate. I call upon my dear colleague Shim Luchin to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9507	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, so I think it's a good thing we've, I hope, just started one job now, and that's to change the laws that I would dare say that time has run over. So, before us is a law almost 20 years old, and can we imagine what on the social agenda has happened in the last 20 years? I'm inclined to believe it, and I believe we'll agree that the limits of freedom move. Unfortunately, not just forwards, but sometimes backs. And so I think that the legislation must also encourage this movement, but also in a certain way that I should say to control and Anticipate. I'll remind some colleagues and colleagues from the last call, we had a similar bill that went into the procedure on behalf of the SDP Club I think the debate took place at night sometime at 12 months 2010. What's interesting other than the club representatives the vast majority of those present in the Parliament is, in fact, not a large majority because it's interesting all there were several debaters, but they represented their parties, their clubs. They were actually against these changes. Here I am now glad that in a certain way and what we have then proposed is only one piece actually included in this law. I would have warned the same way that maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to think about changing the Queen's Law. Because we have one situation in fact that a parent now gives you not only the last note but actually when he betrays you then he betrays you, so you see I don't know if you've changed the name five times you've seen all five times how and in which direction you've changed and what names you've changed. Why does it matter? Well, it's actually important to the segment of those people when it comes to changing the name like, I won't call them sick, it's transgender people who change their name and who are in the interest that their change of name stays in a certain way protected for the general public, so they don't have the discomfort of what they have right now. I believe that this law will contribute even more to the final version of the reading, i.e. to that of the spread of freedom. So I have to say that some of the dilemmas that are there or better to say the restrictions that have been made there would not actually be burdened with them. I don't know, often you won't actually often or won't find a chance to give you a name when you go to a child to challenge that name, so no matter how insulting it may be to someone else's freedom or what. Therefore, the same criterion should apply to me when a person, a mature person, changes his name. If someone's going to name their child Hitler, I don't think that's the problem with society, it's actually his problem. I assure you that when the child matures, that name will change very quickly. And an adult who wants a name like that, so let him have it. I mean, I wouldn't actually get with it, maybe it's called "I don't know," and Osama bin cold or whatever you want. Therefore, I think even that part should be found by the state, to which extent it will interfere with privacy. It's the same thing when it's actually saying to kids, that's what I forgot to say, that's what I think should be very careful. I think children should be involved in consultations earlier, normally consistent with their age, when changing their names. And I think that what, the old solution, I think it's been 10 years, and I think it's actually not bad, and maybe that should, that should stay. What I was about to say, so some kind of restriction, etc., seems to me that my colleagues from the CNS have been saying something about the need to see that someone changed their name at all times. Let me put it this way that he can't cover his tracks. I actually understood the motivation and context of that story. I would like to point out that in some cases it needs a situation, it's about the general public, not to see that name, I'm going to point out why. Given the times in which we live, transgender people, especially young people often have problems in the process of gender change, and what happens? They are simply harassed, simply when it is seen that someone named Mario, now called Maria or vice versa, is actually located up to the simple condemnation of a community where they live for a simple reason because it is, where there is misunderstanding. In that sense, I think we should make that secret clear. This means that normal administrations, i.e. system institutions, actually have that insight, but when it comes back to the release of copies from the queen, that there should be caution. Here's what I believe is that by the second reading, we'll still have a better version of the law, in a clearer version. And I mean, my advice is given that it's a name, and if a name is often not a matter of its own choice, it should actually be very careful in that part where you put those restrictions in that sense, especially when it comes to selecting a name. I also believe that I end up with that, that we will soon get a few more laws and queens' law on the agenda so that we can regulate the whole series of issues in terms of the most personal in fact in a certain way in accordance with the weather, and I would like to say the needs of modern society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9508	I'd like to inform the MPs that the time has elapsed for a ten-minute hearing. And now we're going to hear two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9509	Here's a distinguished colleague, Lucin, here's the minister who just read the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, although there are some other courts like the Supreme Court that say that the National Guard Assembly and People's Protection was a paramilitary formation, all there by the 12th month of 1991, but let's leave it now. Therefore, society and law should be regulated, which names are primarily an insult. Well, I'd call it a kind of homophobia, for example. He calls Adolf Hitler because I know he doesn't have any more of the names Adolf Hitler in the world, but he has a last name Hitler. So it's added to it, for example. Benito Mussolini or I don't know, I don't know which James Bond we've been claiming can't be called, because he's gonna pay a fat fine. But there are also other names where the law should define and not offend others. What I, as an agent, can recommend that we have really Croatian folk names against which obviously, even a child when he grows up won't mind because he won't be called Deng Xiaoping or I don't know how, Casanova or I don't know what other name by some historical figures, or by soaps that were given. Perhaps the bigger problem is that the Croatian families in this, at this difficult time of recession added to their name and mark noble, so they probably wanted from this difficult economic crisis with this nobility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9510	Thank you very much. My colleague Vinkovic, thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9511	Thank you very much. Well, I guess I'm well understood when I cartooned with these two names. However, we can come into such a situation if, in a general article, we prescribe that there are some names that offend freedoms, feelings, and then leave it to one clerk in fact that it determines which names offend the feelings of citizens, or their freedoms, etc. In fact, you're going to have this situation where the clerk in one place, one name, is going to be called "inadequate" and the other one is going to miss it. Let's see, you're up for one other thing, and that's to do as far as I can figure out the name register. But my question is who's gonna make this register and who's gonna say it now are all the nameless names and we've solved the problem. And I wouldn't want to get involved in those things. I think, however, that we should not underestimate Croatian citizens in the sense that they know what name they want to give to their child and that they know what and why they want to take a name. I actually think that if they choose, that's my attitude, so some of those names will actually have the most problems and not their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9512	And another replica, the esteemed representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll leave historical figures aside. You spoke of restrictions and freedom of choice. I will return to article 5 of this Law, which speaks of returning to my last name before marriage, and perhaps the minister will be able to speak about it. I wonder what if we get into a situation where, after breaking up a marriage, one of the ex-marriage partners, for example, without something that I want to offend you, don't get it wrong, your wife doesn't want you to wear her last name or you don't want to wear her name or she doesn't want to wear your last name. Which, in that case, is why the law doesn't say anything about it and we have such situations. So there are men who often add their wife's last name. Which in case such a situation is whether he has the right to deny or deny the use of his last name in the depravity of marriage. Because the Family Law does not solve this situation either, because he says the last name agreement must be in line with the provisions of a special law, so I think it's about failure, or perhaps the minister will be able to answer. So let's think about the situation. We have more and more of these additions to the last name of either one or another spouse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9514	And this replica will be answered by the distinguished representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9515	Just for a little while. I have a clear attitude here. The moment the marriage union is broken down, it's my business and it's my wife's business to have a last name. I mean, why? I personally, I don't see a dispute here if all relations in that separation are resolved legally as it already falls. Therefore, I would leave it to an individual to choose for himself, regardless of what was once a marriage union. Not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9516	Thank you very much. His 10 minutes for individual debate now gets the right to take advantage of the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, today we all agreed in this debate that this 20-year law must be changed. But I will also point out that from this debate it is clear that it is good that the laws go into regular procedure, so in at least two readings, that you yourself Ministers in your opening presentation have already warned of some cases that you will accept as a proposing after the debate on committees, and I think mainly after this debate. We all agree that this is an important topic, an important topic that needs to be discussed, and most of all we are talking about changing the name. I agree with all the colleagues who have instructed here a series of names from series, soaps, fruits, vegetables and I don't know what, from Sandokan, Tarzan, bananas, and believe that there are such names, up to those cases when they were 1990s, that's what counterpart Antičević mentioned in some communities, in some Roma communities, changed children's names. That's what happened in Sisak. I was a principal and suddenly got 30 documents to change the name of the child, and then soon after a month they would come back and come back to school, go back to their names or change their names because they wouldn't exercise their other rights after a change of name. It was an apparent ignorance of the situation, but it caused a whole series of problems in practice, in schools. Therefore, I agree that this Article 6 should have simplified the procedure for changing the name. But I think that, like a few colleagues who have said from these practical examples here, we should still limit maybe the number of possibilities, the time period of change in those times. Because am I going to be called Ines tomorrow, Ivanka, the day after tomorrow Eve, because I happen to like it. Well, here I am going to have fun and you've all said the changes to the name no matter what other people wear, I'm going to say even the big economic consequences because you have to change and the documents not only you, but it has to be done by the state administration. So the administration is also buried with these kinds of jobs. It is not without reason that she also warned her colleague Anticevic of this third paragraph of Article 6 where that name is changed abroad according to approved regulations and is then entered in the Matica born without conducting a personal name change procedure. I think you should think about it as a proposer once more if it's not such a simplified procedure. And why is the name important? Today we talked mostly about changing names and we're all talking about names, but nobody mentioned what a personal name was. In fact, it deals with an entire linguistic branch called onmastics. So by personal name, the study of the meaning of origin deals with linguistics itself. The personal name shall indicate the name used to indicate and distinguish persons. It consists, we have now accepted what is good not only of two words, but consists of two parts. It consists of that first personal name and the second most common family name, i.e. Last name. Most often we change and we all talk about changing a personal name, about fear, and I am showing that concern about the introduction of some inappropriate names and words, and this Law did not allow anything to enter such inappropriate words. I won't mention what my colleagues have mentioned, but the possibility of such words being used is great in this law. Last name is not old through history as a name, we started using somewhere in the late 14th century, so in these areas it became an obligation in the 18th century when in the Western church the Mothers were born then the last names were chosen and formed from occupations, characteristics of people, geographical positions, and thus it is best to see the entire development of our last names, Croatian last names dealt with by academics Petar Šimunović and it is good to read that book to see in fact what it means for a man not only as he said Don Grubišić's identity but the identification of his. That's why it's really good to read that. Why am I talking about this? Today, we have all talked mainly about what will happen if we fully liberalise the change of name, but do you know that people change their last names more and more, so that second part of their personal name for some family reasons, I will tell you for some inherited reasons, but also for fashion. Is it convenient to have some kind of audible, audible foreign name now? This can lead to the liberalisation of the personal name and that too much liberalisation. That's why I think and you're self-aware to see ministers after discussions on committees and these debates here today, that it is really still necessary to consider whether certain restrictions are needed without limiting the freedom of citizens to choose and change their personal name but also the period of time during which that personal name can be changed. Here I think it will really point out once again that it is very important that this law is still going on in two readings, because I think that all of these today were good suggestions, a good experience for people who have experienced what is happening with our personal names and that it is therefore very, very important to think very carefully about the overly liberalization of this article 6. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9518	Thank you. And this debate will be replicated by distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9519	It's just an additional explanation. I agree with my colleague, but I agree with both the Minister and that Constitutional Court verdict that we really can't go so far into liberalisation. I'm not going to mention any other names in this place that anyone smart might want to call it that. As for us men, we'd probably all like to be James Bonds, but it's rare, so it's just a criticism for both the male and me personally. But I think it's really necessary to bring in a name register so that it doesn't really name children, especially children. Well, I agree here, let the clerk in that office determine if a person really wants to change his identity because his name and last name is part of his identity. There's still fingerprints on it, and we can also run a DNA analysis. I understand that protected witnesses need a new identity. But in any case, we will support these amendments to the old law which was indeed to say so and situated for the castle of history, but by passing a new law, we cannot again adopt something that is not in the spirit of not only tradition but in the spirit of a normal human thinking. And it can really happen to us that someone calls themselves by historical personalities either positive or negative. One is Ante Pavelić, one is Josip Broz Tito, one is Adolf Hitler, one is Benito Mussolini, one is Zagor, one is Tex Willer, one is James Bond, and we have Ante, Marko, Stipe, Ivo, Ivan, Zoran are all Croatian names that are usually named after the Croatian goddess Zoran and are named after the Croatian goddess Zoran.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9520	Thank you. This replica will be answered by distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, you agree fully with me and exactly what I have pointed out, which means a personal name. labelling and distinction of persons. But we all agree today that we need to pay attention. I also agree with you in this section where you say we may need to make a register of Croatian names or names in Croatia. However, it is very difficult to oblige people to choose those names. It's hard, it gets in the way of human rights and it's going to be very, very hard to do. However, the official who approves of using a name would really have to be so educated that he can tell that parent so that you can’t call a child Banana. You can make your choice, but it doesn't suit you. I believe the people in the home offices are doing it. But we are all just people and people very often decide it's really hard to say one word, but I have to say about some of the stuff in my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9522	Let us also listen to another replica of the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Roksandić, we've heard enough here today about the agreement on this subject but we've heard a lot of liberalism in any case, and we're even thinking that we need to hurry so that someone doesn't beat us. I don't think that's good thinking. I think that we must hurry to improve the standard of living of citizens, because indeed in this situation where this is happening and the growth of unemployment and all these circumstances we must compete to improve the quality of life of our citizens. That's the fundamental question. God forbid this country's the main problem is name and last name. I agree with certain achievements but in any case I hold that there should be a measure in that, and certainly it is important to say so he and Stipe called himself that I like this from fellow Vinkovic or Ivan or so on. If he's in a difficult situation and trouble, I really don't think that's gonna change him. That's what I think at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9524	The replica will be answered by distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9525	Thank you. Well, colleague Milinkovic, I completely agree with you. No matter how important this is, and perhaps really important to the lives of our citizens, surely the economic situation is very important for the lives of citizens. However, we can also relate this subject to the economic situation. If we push in and we let people change their names every month, it requires all kinds of expenses. If we've raised VAT, collected electricity, gas, water, utility, and I don't know what hasn't been collected in the last six months, and the citizens know it every day, and we're still letting them change it, we're giving them a situation that because of some of their whims, and today we've heard that there can be a hierarchy to change their name, their identity certainly will, and I said that's why I argued in my debate that this is a very economic issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9526	We're left to hear another individual debate. It will be a debate between the distinguished representative of Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the choice of a personal name, i.e. the change of a personal name, certainly falls under one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of every citizen and therefore we have no reason not to support the law that will be passed in practice. But of course every right and every freedom can, I would say and must be limited only by the freedom and rights of others. So in this debate, I'm actually going to look a little bit at what should be done in this law, which is to prevent abuse. Therefore, as part of the simplification of the procedure, there is no longer a need to mention the reason why a change in the personal name that I consider to be okay was left out and the obligation to publish a change of name on the advertising board. We heard from the promoters that it was almost not even implemented in practice if I remember correctly, but that announcement had some meaning that should then be replaced by different provisions in this bill. Why, what was the purpose of the announcement on the advertisement board? The fact that citizens are identified in legal or social traffic in general is identified by their names, so it was intended to let the public know that the person who has so far identified that name is now identified by some other name. People are involved in legal traffic, so except in criminal matters in some civil litigation, administrative proceedings, in their social relations, so at one point they remain that what they've been communicating with one person has disappeared because they've lost their identification mark. So I'm not talking about the OIB that's going to be kept on official records, I'm talking about civil-legal relations. The second important thing is an article or provision in terms of abuse of Articles 8 and 9. So that's what I've already said on the terms, this philosophy of Article 8, that a change of personal name won't be approved by the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, as it's being studied here, it'd be better if it didn't exist. First of all, because it will never be implemented until the end because there will be records of whether the criminal proceedings are being conducted by courts. There is no centralised database on the conduct of the criminal proceedings in Croatia, which means that when a person comes to Zagreb, the person will probably ask the official to bring confirmation of the municipal court in Zagreb or the County Court in Zagreb of Zagreb about the non-compliance of criminal proceedings. At the same time, however, proceedings will be conducted in Zadar, Osijek or anywhere around Croatia, and the editorial official will not know or have to ask all courts in Croatia to bring confirmation that criminal proceedings are not being conducted. I am, of course, asking the question, this has already been heard in the debate, what about persons who are convicted, what about persons who have certain measures as legal consequences of a conviction, how they will be identified in those records, or that they are concerned with these consequences, and ultimately what about persons who are in a litigation procedure, where then when they deliver a particular person under a name and last name, that person will no longer be but will be another name. This is what all of us need to think about preventing abuses. Article 9 also states that the minister said that the parent is obliged to submit a notice on the change in the personal name of the authorities keeping records of the citizens, but that it should also be considered that the change is then delivered to the courts and to the criminal records. Although we are still expecting from the Ministry of Justice and I hope that by the end of the year there will be before us a proposal for a law on criminal record and rehabilitation because the Penal Code in that part will cease to apply at the end of the year, and perhaps that would be some place where all of this could and should be regulated. There's something else I'm warning you, and that's Article 11, criminal provisions. I think he is completely unnecessary here, so this law speaks of a choice or a change of personal name, and this article says that a fine will be fined for a violation of a person using another person's personal name. I don't know that, this isn't the matter of this law at all, so we have the Penal Code, we have a criminal act of false representation, so it's for that and we're putting ourselves at risk to at the same time describing certain behavior as being a criminal and criminal act. And here I would warn that what might be a violation provided for in this law and would be in line with the matter regulated by this law is when Article 10 says that a person is obliged to use a new personal name in legal traffic from the day of the entry of a change in the Matrix of the born, and then it could be designated as a violation if that person who changed his last name is used by his former personal name. So if she changed her personal name, she typed it in the queen, if it was used by an ex-name to prescribe a criminal penalty, that is to say, to establish it as an offence. That would be some logic of this law. One more thing, I think it is in contrast to Article 3 and Article 7 which speaks of determining or changing the name of the child. Therefore, in Article 3(1), when determining a name for a child, it is determined that parents do so in agreement and that they can determine that the child bears the name of one or both parents. So there's a limited choice of last name for a child on the last name of one or both parents. However, in the same situation when a child is, say, five years old, so parents remember to change his last name there are no restrictions, so the underage child says he will change his personal name at the request of parents or adoptors, etc. There's no limit in changing it in a way to be the last name of one of the parents, so I don't know what the point of this is, maybe someone does, but I don't see it. I continue to see a different relationship in the case of parental law. In fact, we are talking about parents who do not live in marriage, but where the one in relation to the determination, or the change in the personal name of the parent with whom the child lives, has much more rights than this other parent, although they have a common parental right. And the very fact of life with one parent doesn't know why if he neatly reconciles all his parental duties, another parent would put him in a more favourable position. If you notice this provision, the name of a minor child may be changed at the request of a parent who lives with the consent of another parent, and if he does not, it will be determined by a welfare center. However, it does not permit that same request to the other parent who equally has all parental rights and duly performs parental duty and cannot submit such a request without the other parent giving consent. Also, I don't see that reason. And I certainly think that this age limit for child consent should be returned to that age limit of the existing law, which is 10 years. By the age of ten, the child is very well identified with his name and last name and I think he should be asked about it. Also, I think it is a good time for a wife to ask for a change in her former name after a divorce, or marriage mate. We talked about maybe it's not the best legal expression to go back to the last name, but it might stand to change her last name to what she wore before she got married or some kind of formulation. And there should be a clear warning that it is only a relief, so that the name is changed by a statement itself, and that it should not go into administrative proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9528	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9529	For all these reasons, I hope that by the final proposal of the law, the proposer will respect all these remarks in the debate I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9530	Once again, Zoran Vinkovic will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9531	Here is a colleague who has just recognized the problem in this article 7 where practically one parent, one parent, so to speak puts in the first place without the possibility of another parent to affect either the child’s last name or the change itself. And here's a special big possibility, I'd say the manipulation of the welfare center, because I don't know if you know that here's the business in banks, for example. When a parent opens or that foster parent opens up to a minor child or saves that same parent who is therefore a guardian, the legal guardian of that child in the case of what, some difficulties, or if it is necessary for a child to raise the same money, so what is the parent or both parents who have been paying for it, rather than seeking the consent of the welfare centre. Who therefore ate neither bread nor bread, nor paid for it, neither lime nor kuna. So, there is a big problem that can happen and can first and foremost be brought by one of the parents, and it is mainly in legal practice or in previous practice by a practical father since in the divorce most of these court disputes end up being given to a mother. So I find it necessary to pay particular attention here and be particularly sensitive to this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9532	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9533	Thank you very much. So here's my colleague Vinkovic, which is why I've spoken with all due respect to civil liberties and rights, but we are obliged to install legal texts and mechanisms to prevent abuse. I'm also going to use this to say in one of the cases where I don't think my colleague Lucin recognized the replica of his colleague Glavak, so the minister might answer that, and that's why in the event of a divorce, one of his spouses doesn't want his last name to be worn after the divorce. That it should be regulated by some regulation, by this or by family law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9534	The remarks brought forward in the debate will now be addressed by the Minister of Administration, the distinguished Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues as complex as this matter is, in fact, also the fact that the Constitutional Court ruling I quoted has four separate opinions from the judges. So this was the verdict I quoted was the verdict, and beyond that, they still have four separate opinions of the judges. Now imagine if we could get to the Register of Names how many opinions would be set out why something would, and why not? I think that, ultimately, in these disputed situations which are yet rare, we will decide the court and let the court, in the end, assess whether the officer, after which the second-degree body, or the ministry, then one degree of administrative trial, and the second degree of administrative trial, and then only in the fifth degree, is likely, if the Constitutional Court comes to this, they will decide whether by not allowing a person’s personal name to be denied, it has violated his constitutional rights. So I think it's going to be a path to go, and until the court finds out that the constitutional rights are violated, it's not going to be possible to get that name. Therefore, I think it's in that sense enough protection. As for the Queens Act mentioned by fellow Lucin, therefore he also goes on to change, also goes on in two readings, will also be believed to be a good debate, constructive because it is something also I believe that there are no major ideological or daily-political differences. Now, we have one thing that has been touched here in the debate that has never been normized, or restricted in the laws since World War II, which is to determine the name of the child at birth. It wasn't bound by anything in the law. If we went to limit that part, and it could be, we'd go one step back. But if we go into five things one step ahead, we can at least see if there's a valid reason for it to go crazy. The question, however, is what would the child be called until the entire administrative procedure is completed and who would name the child in that case. So that's the same question, question for discussion. As for James Bond, we, in the 1980s, had James Bond with James, not James, but James. After James became a minor, he changed his name, based on this norm to change his name abroad and to just enroll in the queen. Exactly, otherwise this norm refers to citizens, citizens with dual citizenship. Therefore, a Croatian citizen who does not have dual citizenship can change his name abroad to enroll it in the documents in Croatia, but if he has dual citizenship, then, based on changes in the country whose other citizenship enrolls it in the queens of Croatia. As for her colleague, Roksandić mentioned the name Banana, I was given the permission of Mrs. Jagoda to mention that she too named after fruit. And yesterday, Mrs. Vishnja, as much as I remember talking about the annual report, and I was named after the chemical element even though I wasn't by it. Therefore, it is always likely that whoever is called Hydrogen or Helium would certainly not be common but well. So it's a Greek name. But that's the same question that the social value is being violated by this when a name is given that isn't common. And I think that's where Mrs. Lovrin said the freedom of others, and that would be the first line that all of us certainly shouldn't go through, but in any case, public morality and something else that's been interpreted differently in different times. Therefore, we will let the court be the last to interpret it. And we'll put that general standard into law. As for the publication and this 30 - day period, the announcement was in the sense that someone had the right to complain about it within 30 days. I think the question is whether it was because someone should be informed because if the deadline is 30 days, then someone has a complaint and someone who sees someone who doesn't like it and then they just decide whether that complaint is founded or not. And when the name changes then there's a change, so there's an application in legal traffic. Also, the criminal procedure norm is thus written among other things for the reason that we have analysed the Penal Code and the Rights or Permissions when data from the criminal record can be used. And here we have consulted the Ministry of Justice, but we will consult once again in the analysis of this, so how exactly to prescribe at what time, when, for which crimes a criminal procedure is being conducted and whether and in this case, with the permission of the court, it can be changed because we do not see what value would be protected by deprived someone of the name change from Ivan to Marko. If this does not affect the criminal procedure or if it does not affect one of its own, that is to say, the possibility or obligation of that citizen. There's so much, so in this part. So the personal name is in any case, so the Personal Name Act is, in any case, a law governing the fundamental rights of citizens. So I think that, here's what we get for going in two readings, but I believe most of the law will go in two readings. Because here it is, this is the first time I've ever had to do something in an emergency procedure, at least from the department section that I'm headed for. I believe that all the laws that are and in this sense are in some way and I am glad that this debate has shown that, regardless of the position or opposition, MPs will recognise the good intentions of the ministry, the government's good intention to better settle one issue than it is now. In the final draft of the law, we will therefore consider all the remarks we have received in the debate, and we will also consider them in the text that you receive. And he believes, therefore, that when we have to choose the right solutions that we will be able to explain why, rather than otherwise, and in that sense here I expect this law to come to another reading in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9536	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9537	So I'm correcting, I believe Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that he was named after a chemical element. Maybe he got it from the French version of James Bond, Arsen Lupen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9538	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9539	Proposal for a Law on Personal Name, First Reading, P.Z. No. 92. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The proposal for a Law on Personal Name is accepted, and all objections, second, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's to this conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that this conclusion has also been reached unanimously with 130 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9540	We move to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, First Reading, P.Z. No. 94 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law, which are Articles 144 to 150, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We propose an amendment to the Law on Administrative Disputes in the section in which the Law stipulates that the Administrative Courts decide in the first instance in a Council of 3 Judges. That provision constitutes a derogation from the rule that an individual judge judges in the first instance. The proposed amendment and addition shall be prescribed that always in disputes before the courts, the Court of First Instance shall decide in the first instance by an individual judge, while the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia shall, as a second instance, decide in a Council of 3 Judges, as a rule, or in a Council of 5 Judges if it is to assess the legality of the general acts. That amendment will present the unification of legislative procedural provisions in the sense that an individual judge is responsible for the first-degree trial. In addition, it will improve its effectiveness in the part of the administrative trial because such a judicial organisation through the council, in a council of three judges, requires a different organisation, extends the procedure and does not lead to what is the objective, and this is the appropriate decision within a reasonable time. In addition to this amendment, this main amendment also follows the changes concerning text, nomotechnical alignment of concepts, so instead of councils, judge individual. We have proposed another amendment concerning the possibility of suspending the procedure if it is a matter which cannot be subject to administrative procedure. And we suggested that this change of procedural nature in the composition of the administrative trial in the first degree, so that the judge of an individual, be the one to apply to ongoing disputes, because it is not material and legal, but a procedural and legal provision. That's a short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9542	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. Dear Representative Vesna Fabiančić Križanić on behalf of the HNS club, forgive the SDP club. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for this correction, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, as we have heard in the opening explanation of the proposings before us is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes. So, it also stands in reason, and we all know it together that the intensity of these changes is the unification of the legislative system which we support anyway. Since it is a regular law-making process, we will discuss not only the issue of decision-making in first-degree courts but also other issues that arise through the supervision and monitoring of new legislation in administrative trials. The scope of the citizens' judicial protection from the public administration's actions is particularly reflected in the legal arrangement of the administrative dispute cases. A long period of time has passed to pay due attention to this important segment. The Law on Administrative Disputes was passed in 2010 and this is to comply with European standards, because after the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia and its establishment, a new Law on Administrative Disputes was not adopted, but the Law on Takingover was adopted by the 1977 Law on Administrative Disputes, which was twice amended in 1992. Meanwhile, Croatia's legislation passed a series of laws governing specific administrative areas but not administrative disputes. This is how official law, local and regional and regional self-government, authority and others have been adopted. At the same time, the Law on Administrative Disputes was largely not in line with the latest standards of judicial protection in the law of the Member States of the European Union, but not with modern concepts of both Croatian legal sciences and professions. Administrative disputes lasted for years at the same time, and thus, in the context of the adjustment of Croatian legislation, the legal gains of the European Union have been approached and the creation and adoption of a new law that has regulated judicial oversight of the work of the administration. According to the Law on Administrative Disputes, which is in force, the rule is to decide in administrative disputes in a three-judge council, and the individual judge only exceptionally. Although it has been a long time to settle this problem the way the Law on Administrative Disputes has dealt with it, we see that the backlogs in administrative disputes have risen again, and this will of course result in an even longer period of time of judicial protection. Since the primary objective of the Law on Administrative Disputes is to ensure judicial protection from the work of the administration, judicial oversight of the legality of the work of the administration and of the Institute of Administrative Dispute is one of the most important issues of the administrative law of each State. The guaranteed degree of judicial protection, as well as its effectiveness, are key elements in the assessment of each modern legal system. The principle of judicial protection protects the individual whose rights have been violated and prevents the excess of the powers of the executive and administrative authority to the detriment of the citizens. Today, in a litigation procedure, judges are generally judged by individuals in both the most complex and high-value cases of the dispute. We therefore believe that there are no valid arguments that in administrative disputes a council of three judges should be tried and that effectively and legally cannot resolve the cases of an individual judge. With the harmonisation of the legislative system, arguments for reducing backlogs and for faster dispute resolution are certainly a contribution to support these amendments in this direction. We believe that everyone should strive for equality, and it is justified that even in administrative disputes before the courts of the first degree, the judges of the individual, regardless of the complexity or value of the case of the dispute, and in particular not only because of the uniformity in the trial of the Republic of Croatia, but also because of the fact that the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is established as a secondary court. We believe that solving cases by judges could significantly contribute to timely settlement of cases, and therefore the SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9544	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Josip Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9545	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law of Administrative Disputes. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes. What should be said is the proposal, the Final Proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes, which we had in 2010, is a European, modern law that we passed and on the way to the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, but it is a modern law that has primarily improved and modernised the judiciary in terms of modern administrative dispute from which tradition means historical, administrative trial in the Republic of Croatia and modern European law. First of all, the introduction of a second-degree procedure in a legal trial, the introduction of an appeal, the shortening of proceedings, the establishment of administrative courts in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek, the introduction of extraordinary legal medicines. All that will surely improve administrative trial in the administrative process, but pass a modern law that will benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly the law we passed in 2010. It was one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23 for Croatia's entry into the European Union, and I believe that we have also passed a modern European law. Today's proposed amendments and amendments to the law that the administrative procedure should not be tried in a three-judge council but that an individual judge judges in disputes as provided for in the law. First of all, the HDSSB club supports this because it is the continuation of the improvement and definition of the laws that we passed in 2010. These are the norms that have proved that if certain adjustments are to be made in the course of the application of the law, that indeed this Law on Administrative Disputes would be a modern European law. The definitions and items of this law are also the harmonisation and regulation of the legal interpretation of certain articles of the law in the part where certain solutions have not been provided in the current law which have proved during the application of the law that they should be introduced into this law and that is for sure what we need to support. It should also be supported that the administrative disputes that are now under way so we passed the 2010 law with effect from 1 January 2012, so all those proceedings pending under the existing legal solution to this bill are foreseen to overcome this legal... when we pass this law to end the proceedings under this existing law. The HDSB club supports the amendments and additions to this law, it believes that this proposed law will contribute to the regulation of the Croatian judiciary and will continue to improve Croatian laws in the context of Croatia's entry into the EU and we will vote for these amendments and amendments to the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9546	Thank you, dear colleague Salapic. The position of the Croatian Labour Party Club will be presented by the distinguished colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9547	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know much about this area personally, but I've been consulting with those who know far more than I do. We will support this change because it actually formally legalises and existing practice, because so far and as in litigation and in these proceedings, even though the Council of Three Judges had actually done one. It was that famous reporter judge while the others were just signing. It's because we all know that we don't have enough judges and that this practice has been so far. What I would like to warn, direct, suggest, suggest on the government's thinking and representatives of the government and the ministry are three at first sight not connected but actually very important issues for the judiciary. The area of administrative law under the scope of the legal rules is more demanding than other areas. There are a lot of specific laws and sublegal acts that require detailed knowledge of certain substances and suggest that it would be extremely good and that these judges have a specific specialty in order to raise the quality of work and judgment. Now that the Council of Three Judges has been abolished, one judge in the first-degree proceedings. This specialisation and division for certain areas of administrative procedures would indeed facilitate the work and raise the quality of judicial work. The second thing I want to warn is the situation of the status and position of the court advisors. It is about people who are on second-degree courts as rapporteurs, making draft decisions and rarely working on these courts themselves in litigation first-degree even de facto, making judgments only because they are formally signed by judges later. The difference is that... they do not have judicial privileges and, unlike a large number of EU Member States, they are disproportionate to their receipts compared to judicial incomes, and we note that some of these advisers have been on these jobs for 10 to 15 years. And thirdly, judges in criminal cases are required by law if the Council of Three makes one judge with two jury councils of five, two judges of three jurors. The law on criminal proceedings provided for the adoption of a special law governing jurisdiction under the composition of courts. Since this special law has not yet been passed, this rule applies to the judges of the jury. In fact, we inherited this from a time when judgments were passed on behalf of the people. We believe that the special law referred to by the Criminal Procedure Act should be regulated differently by the composition of the Council for Criminal Procedures and leave this system of jury judges because they are not expert in the decision-making process and I think that, in the follow-up to judicial reform, we should go in this direction or in the law in criminal proceedings, define what the jurisdiction and composition of the courts means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9548	Thank you. We will now hear the attitudes of the HNS club and distinguished colleague Nada Turin-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. As regards the CNS, this is an extremely important issue of regulating the entire judiciary system in the Republic of Croatia in legal frameworks, and, of course, the Institute of Administrative Dispute and Administrative Courts. The judicial oversight of the legality of the work of the administration and of the Institute of Administrative Dispute is one of the most important issues of administrative law in each country. The development of the rule of law has imposed as an imperative the establishment of a legal surveillance model that needs to be provided for wide legal protection in the field of administrative activity. The holder of such supervision shall be a body or should be a body whose independence and authority ensure that the administration moves in its operation within the legal norm of positive law. In fact, very early in the development of modern democratic states, it prevailed with the realization that such a judiciary represents an appropriate form of legal oversight of the administration both because of its expertise and because of its organisational independence in relation to the administration. The general idea of judicial control of the administration has developed as part of a democratic idea of civil society, along with ideas about the division of power, sovereignty and rule of law. The role of this supervision as a guarantee of legality is not only expressed in its repressive nature, which is expressed by the application of sanctions when a concrete breach of the legal order occurs, but it also has a prominent preventive function and we at the HNS consider it extremely important, and later I will say why we agree with the proposal of the competent ministry or government. In fact, it is in advance to influence the course of administrative action in this preventive sense. The principle of judicial protection ensures the protection of individuals' rights and prevents the excess of powers by the executive and administrative authority to the harm of citizens, and of course, the EU has also provided exceptional importance, and we, in the adoption of the law in 2010, have had to comply with this, it is precisely giving importance to administrative justice because the vast majority of European rights are in the jurisdiction of these courts, and the particular meaning is given to both the protection of public interest and the protection of human rights. The very possibility of initiating a administrative dispute affects, of course, the official person, the body leading the administrative procedure so that the person pays far more attention to both the procedure itself and the determination of all the facts and circumstances relevant to the adoption of a legal solution. So here is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that guarantees judicial control of the legality of certain acts of administrative authorities and bodies that have public authority. Now this was an introductory one, given the importance of generally this point and this proposal, and what is related to this in the very and specific amendment proposal, which is that it actually increases efficiency in court disputes in terms of putting the responsibility of an individual judge which is already said by a colleague in practice realistically and exists. Because the bottom line is that one of the most important tasks of modern legal states is to set up and develop such procedural systems that would allow citizens to solve their own legal situation in procedures before public authorities in appropriate time frames. We've already heard here that, of course, with these time frames, we're not satisfied and we can't be satisfied. If those tasks are not answered, the consequences for the national community can be extremely harmful and can ultimately lead to violations of the fundamental ideas of law and the rule of law themselves. In addition to the importance of the time-frames of decision-making in administrative proceedings, the inactivity of, say, public administration bodies has the same importance for the overall efficiency of the legal system as the speed to be dealt with by the Administrative Court on charges brought on account of the possible illegality of administrative acts. For all these reasons, we believe that the ministry's proposal is absolutely justified. It is heading towards the unification of the legal system in the Republic of Croatia, but also towards increased efficiency, activity and accountability, and in this respect the HNS will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9550	Thank you. Next for discussion on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, above all, pleased that this bill has come into the parliamentary procedure by regular procedure, which means that we will have the opportunity to show all the arguments for, but also some doubts regarding this bill and which we hope the proposer will then also bear in mind and act on the final draft of the law. First of all, I'd say that this seems to be a small change of law because it's mostly short, but it doesn't matter. In particular, it is not irrelevant that the Law on Administrative Disputes was therefore passed as one law which had been followed in the negotiation procedure, that it had been for several years, that EU projects were through which the text of the law was established, that the professional public had been involved and had finally been adopted in 2010 by such a Law on Administrative Disputes. Of course, he was boldly saying that I would have changed in relation to the former law, and that is precisely to fulfil the conditions under the Convention on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which required full judicial protection against decisions of administrative and public authorities and in a dispute of full jurisdiction, but also by opening reformation decisions instead of the so-called only cassation decisions. Perhaps to clarify, so far in the former Law on Administrative Disputes, the debate before the Administrative Court was an exception, and the rule was that decisions were also taken without debate, and now the debate is a rule that must be, with certain exceptions laid down by law when it is not mandatory. I would like to say this after such a long process, after the participation of domestic and European experts, after the adoption of that law and after leaving over a year of adjustment and administrative courts, but also all the necessary accompanying letters and organisations in the judiciary, it is surprising that here it is now, since the law has been applied since 1.1 this year, comes with a proposal for this law and with a very impeccable explanation. Namely, I would personally expect a little more reasoning if something had been working on so long and studioly and determined the composition of the court as it was established, so that it would be a three-member council, then with some analyses, embodies or something like that it should point to arguments for such an amendment, and not only to the groundless provision, etc. So what some people have been doing for years is unfounded. I'm not saying this isn't a good suggestion, but I would definitely expect some kind of analysis of maybe the application of this law in these two five months now and then to see both arguments and reasons. Therefore, it is decided before the administrative courts to protect the rights of natural and legal persons against individual administrative acts and acts of the body with public authority and, as a rule, to resolve the first stage. So, and it should also be said that this judicial protection along with the administrative procedure now actually means that acting in administrative matters when a citizen seeks his right in administrative proceedings actually has five degrees because he has a first-degree administrative procedure, second-degree and then the possibility of a first-degree lawsuit in a first-degree administrative court and a complaint at the High Administrative Court and ultimately the possibility of an extraordinary review of the legality of the judicial judgment in the administrative court on what the Supreme Court decides. So that's five instances. Of course, one of the principles of administrative trial is established by the law of the principle of economic and efficiency and, of course, that in that sense, this proposal seems logical. After all, in something where administrative courts have now regularly resolved without debate, without hearing parties all of a sudden all these cases are subject to discussion. Of course, it requires a certain amount of time and the involvement of judges. And I would agree in some ways that these changes will only actually legalize the existing practice in which they have mostly dealt with it and will be done to the judges of the rapporteurs. But here I am asking the legislator to try to consider one case, situation, or whatever it may be that he does not generally make no provision to decide in the first degree an individual judge. I warn one newspaper from the Law on Administrative Disputes, which is a viewable dispute as one specific person who says that if in ten or more first-degree administrative disputes the subject of an action is the same legal or factual nature, the court may decide that the case will be settled in the review dispute. What does that mean? That all these other items will be terminated until the solution to the view dispute has been reached. After that, it has consequences in its actions. Therefore, it is no longer necessary to hold a debate on these other proceedings but can be settled on the basis of the fact that the same examination dispute is established and on the basis of a decision taken by law in the review case, the court may resolve the dispute initiated after the power to carry out the debate, as it is said. I leave one comment or doubt that the applicant may consider that, in the event of the dispute being settled, this finding of the facts in this dispute will, however, end up referring to a number of other similar disputes that might then be foreseen for this solution of the review dispute, that the court of the three-member council is still being resolved. Only the comparison, such a simplified comparison with the litigation procedure, that is, how this argument shows that this provision is unfounded and that the legislative system needs to be evened. It seems to me that it's too easy to simulate things. One thing to bear in mind is that when they come before a litigator in a party's case, they first address the court to apply the right to some of their factual relations and to the fact that the court will determine. So this is the first time a citizen has ever touched a body, or a court that will determine the facts and apply the law. In the case of an administrative dispute, it should be kept in mind that it was a case or a procedure which had already been passed, so the citizen was in front of the administrative authorities, he was seeking some right. This right has already been decided in two degrees and applied to a certain factual finding, in most cases, by persons who know the matter are in the administrative bodies and persons of the legal profession. Therefore, even after such determinations, the control of the application of the right actually works by the Administrative Court. So it's not exactly the same situation as in the litigation process. As for the need to speed up decision-making in administrative matters, whatever we do if we do not consistently apply this in practice and if there is no constant monitoring of the application of the laws adopted, we will unfortunately not speed up proceedings before the Administrative Court or administrative proceedings. In fact, we expected a lot from the adoption of a new Law on Administrative Procedure, but in practice we see that things didn't really move. And they didn't move, first of all, because the new ZUP is simply not applicable in public services, or in public authorities. A provision does not apply whereby all the information that exists in the official records is required to be obtained by officials who handle administrative proceedings themselves, rather than by sending parties to bring all those certificates which they can by clicking on a computer where it is networked and where it should not be obtained. In practice you still often have parties who are ignorant officers to give paper and say bring 25 any confirmations from the state office or very often from an office that is in the next room by an editorial official. Therefore, until we consistently require that we implement in practice we can pass all kinds of laws, but we will not speed up the administrative procedure. For this reason, understandable reasons for the need to speed up the administrative trial, that the Law on Administrative Disputes has been drastically changed in 2010, so in the sense that an administrative dispute has been found as a dispute of full jurisdiction. That the dispute is metrically resolved, that this requires far more time, that it is a reasonable question that a tripartite council is engaged in these discussions each time. It is worth considering these proposals, of course, it would be good to have some analysis of the first days of the application of the Law on Administrative Disputes until the final proposal. And so it's basically about this law, and then I'm asking the Proposer yes, I'd have here a series of nootechnic remarks that I now think time doesn't allow me to make. But here perhaps, first of all, I ask the Proposer for the persons they apply, who have to apply the law. That style expressions themselves are not corrected in any amendments to the law unless they significantly contribute to the clarity of the norm. In fact, as many times as the legislator, it's familiar to me, however many times we read it, we'll always find some way to maybe say it more stylishly, but that's what confuses those who apply the law because it's not about a major change, it's only about some stylish beauty that I don't think it's necessary. Secondly, in Article 2, I warn that a new article is being added, which says, "That the complaint is brought in fact which cannot be the subject of a administrative dispute," and I warn that in the above-mentioned tax reasons, you have already two reasons why the complaint cannot be filed. Well, then it's kind of nomotechnically wrong that two of those reasons are taxed, and for the third, you say in general that the lawsuit is not, that the lawsuit is filed in fact that can't be the subject of a administrative dispute, because the law in another article tells which reasons. Also in this whole series of amendments concerning the replacement of the words of the President and members of the Judicial Council, with the words of the Judge, should then be consistent throughout the legal text. Because somewhere you're going to be left, somewhere you're going to delete the Syntagma president and council members, you're going to be left with a judge, and somewhere you're going to be left with an individual judge, which is now unnecessary when the judge is told that the individual is standing. And another nomotechnical remark where the word "judgment" is replaced by the word "judgment," which is fine. But you must replace the words of a court ruling, replace the words of a verdict, because otherwise you will be left with judgments which, of course, is unnecessary and excessive. For all these reasons, since this is about first reading we will support this law and we expect these remarks to be adopted in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9552	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from a representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9553	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister. So here I would briefly look back on the changes made by the Law on Administrative Disputes that have come into force and applied since the beginning of this year. The law certainly strengthened judicial control, or judicial oversight of the work of the administration, but we must be completely objective and say something else. The law basically extended the administrative trial, increased the costs of administrative trial, and that is something to be spoken about openly. In particular, this is also good, because it has finally given citizens the opportunity to speak openly and orally somewhere in which they are not satisfied with the work of the administration, which they are not satisfied with in the administrative act brought in their opinion at their expense. Unfortunately, this year's practice has shown that the application of the Law on Administrative Disputes has led, unfortunately, to an increase in backlogs. We in this year although we have established 4 new administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic, we are now in a situation to increase the number of cases that are not being resolved. Among other things, just because we predicted that every item, no matter how banal the act was, how simple was the administrative act that was being decided in the administrative dispute, was solved by three judges. So 3 judges must prepare for the procedure, have to listen to oral debate, contradictory debate, have to participate in carrying out evidence and finally 3 judges must participate in the decision-making process. That's not what we've heard, we've heard in litigation, but we don't have a whole series of criminal proceedings. So here we are in the administrative dispute, in the administrative trial we extended rights which in other proceedings almost do not exist, that is, in other proceedings over the years. That is why this bill should certainly be supported, because I believe that this reduction in the number of judges will lead to the process being resolved more quickly, and on the other hand, since, as counterpart Lovrin has very precisely pointed out, we have increased the number of findings through a second-degree trial and through the possibility of addressing the Supreme Court through the State's attorney. So de facto, the third degree in court proceedings, and when it comes to the fact that it had previously been decided by the first degree and second degree administrative authority, de facto five-degree trial. So anyway, this bill should be supported, because I believe that we are not increasing the efficiency of the work of the Administrative Courts but will at least reduce costs for the state. However, in discussions on parliament's working bodies, another issue has been raised, which is the very cost of the administrative trial, which will be extremely large both for local self-government units and for the Republic of Croatia, but above all for the parties. In fact, the practice of the previous administrative trial has shown that the lawsuits in a large number of cases are being refused. Of course, in such a case so far, the parties were obliged to reimburse only the costs of the proceedings in the form of a court fee. However, now that we have a contradictory debate, the situation will arise that the costs of the other party involved will also have to be compensated. So we need to weigh a little bit on whether, in addition to the current provisions on reimbursement of costs, this would be too much of a burden on the citizens who have addressed this Administrative Court because they think they have been violated by their right to do so. So it's not exactly like in a litigation procedure where two parties are, as a rule, not persons who are not public rights discussing some kind of relationship. Here I think that we still need to protect the interests of citizens a little bit more, i.e. to allow them to manage this administrative trial with as little cost as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9554	Thank you. Next to discuss, individual representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't see it here, and there's Mrs. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is this bill, as previously all speakers have spoken on behalf of the club or individually supported this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, and it is a wonder why we did not do so when we passed the Law on Administrative Disputes and when we introduced four Administrative Courts and a High Court to us instead of one Administrative Court. So we would thus free the judges, so instead of three would judge one judge, we would get two judges. So at least they would be double if not at triple speed they were dealing with the accumulated objects, but so would those who arrive and arrive and descend on our judiciary. Whenever it comes to these subjects, we constantly become prisoners of the laws themselves in terms of what to change in a particular law so that we can speed up the process. And we can speed up the process to unsuspecting speeds, which is ultimately the intensity, the ultimate intensity of judicial reform. But what we need to be concerned about, which is the production of a number of illegalities is particularly evident in administrative disputes where administrative courts are buried in cases of violation of the administration. Let's look at the recent years that these eclative violations of citizens' rights have been by the adoption of administrative acts of our administration. What about the silence of the administration? For the past few years, there has been an increase in the illegality of the work of the state administration and of the state administration, and all this is being brought to the courts. And we can have an effective judiciary and a trial in terms of cases being resolved quickly, but the amount of cases in the population is abnormal and nowhere in the world, we almost today have a three-member family, and a few years ago we had a four-member family where every fourth person was in court. Today, every third person is in court. What does that mean? Something's not working. Therefore, the concept of not only the illegality of the conduct of our administration but of that famous silence of the administration itself. And therefore there is also an administrative trial. We simply have to ask the question of responsibility when it comes to these issues, the question of responsibility for those who are legally responsible and within certain deadlines. However, the deadline here even colleague Lovrin spoke of the provisions of the law not being respected. But not just this law. Let's get back to the board. If that worked, we wouldn't have a problem before the administrative trial. That would be in one normal amount, but if a citizen submitted any request so far he had to wait and something had to change for years then what we're talking about, and there's no consequences for that. We're talking about too many people in our administration, and the truth is, there's a lot of them. However, some departments cry out for people. So in that sense, we need to do a deep analysis to see where people are missing. There are therefore still engines in Croatia that are pulling everything, others are limping, and everyone has the same salary, and it's been speaking here for years already, but here we are recently to actually introduce a reward to our administration according to the work. It is the best stimulation but also the best and most fair choice for those who can stay in the state service and for those whom the state would thank for the efforts so far better to say "unhappiness." Therefore, the number and quality of solved cases must be the only assumption of progress in the administration, but also the only objective indicator of who should leave the service. So, when we introduced four administrative courts in our largest cities in Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek, and one Supreme Administrative Court in Zagreb, the basic urgency was to firstly comply with these European Union standards to protect the rights of those who address the court, to allow oral debate. Therefore, the principle of contradiction, and equally, by increasing the legal certainty of citizens accordingly, in terms of their and better protection. And instead of the speed of action, therefore we see precisely for another reason it is not the law here that is not to blame again for which the Higher Administrative Court but also some of these Administrative Courts in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split and Osijek are again buried. What I would also particularly like to point out is that at this administrative trial, which we all agreed on, and I believe that our Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Administration, will come out very quickly with the specific criteria that we now have fortunately in this regular trial. And in this form of trial, therefore, and in relation to the administration itself, therefore the same criteria as we have set for judges also for those who resolve, who adopt administrative acts. So, about their quality, about their conditions for entering the service and also about their promotion, i.e. Progress. It's a predecessor so we can be successful in every kind of trial and then in this administrative trial. The code of administrative courts in both the amount and number of cases is best seen as the state works, how much respects the rights because there is always a state or individual ministry being sued here. Here I believe that soon we will be able to test the new government as well as how successful it was in that. how reduced the inflow of administrative cases in front of our administrative courts in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9556	Thank you. And an individual debate. Representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9557	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, I welcome the initiative to introduce the decision of an individual judge in the administrative court in the first degree. The administrative trial is still unfortunately marking too long the duration of administrative disputes, which is likely to be extended by introducing a second step as has already been said. The introduction of rules that judges decide could help speed up the process as well as to achieve the principle of economic and efficiency. In European practice, this is not unusual, for example. Germany, France and Poland use individual judges and as the principle is that an individual judge decides on a litigation procedure I do not see here... the principle and the administrative trial. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] But I would take advantage of the opportunity to add dissatisfaction to the fact that the procedure before the administrative court still takes an extremely long time. According to the 2010 figures, the average duration of the dispute before the Administrative Court was 21 months except in some emergency procedures. The backlog of the Administrative Court is about how much data I have available about 36,000 cases. The introduction of reform powers strengthened by the new law may have an impact on the shorter duration of the procedure but the practice in the litigation process does not leave too much hope. Because of the facts and since these changes are aimed at better efficiency of the court, I have a need to point to Article 32. The Law on Administrative Disputes, which prescribes the obligation of the defendant to respond to the complaint and the obligation to supply all files relating to the subject matter of the dispute. In accordance with paragraph 2 of that Article, the Court shall set a time limit for the answer to an action which, under the circumstances of the case, cannot be less than 8 or more than 30 days. It is stated in paragraph 3 that the answer to the complaint of the defendants should be made known about the claims and the allegations of the action and provide evidence to support their allegations. In response to the lawsuit, the defendant is obliged to submit all the evidence he has at his disposal. It shall be stated in paragraph 4 that, in response to the action brought by the defendants, he is obliged to submit all the files relating to the subject matter of the dispute. However, even though the three paragraphs may conclude that the defendant is obliged to respond to the complaint and to submit the legal text in some way jumps into his own mouth because he says that if the defendant does not deliver all the case files or declares that he cannot deliver them, the court may also resolve the dispute without the case file. First, it is prescribed that the defendant is obliged to give an answer and deliver the files, and then relys on the possibility of not doing so without sanctions. Therefore, it is not surprising that often the provisions of this article are not respected and the defendants are not at all referring to the complaint, let alone to deliver files relating to the subject matter. Thus, the proceedings before the Administrative Court are rather prolonged not only because they are often very long under way until it becomes clear that the defendant will not be made manifest but also because the court does not send the files very often annul the administrative act and returns the case to re-determination. This not only prolongs resolution but also causes unsettled costs to both parties and the public body. If there is already an opportunity for these proposed amendments and additions to the Administrative Procedure Act to be rationalised, I would suggest that both rationalisation and in this segment be considered. First of all, in my opinion, it would be better to make a more explicit commitment for the defendant to respond to the lawsuit or at least to deliver the files. In my opinion, failure to respond from the file could only be justified if the file itself no longer exists physically or because of any other practical inability or in any other case. It is obvious that ignoring legal obligations is taking place due to the absence of any sanctions for non-compliance with this provision of the law. Often in practice, we can testify to the very unprofessional and sloppy conduct of the defendants, therefore, by the public legal authority or even by obstructing the court by that body, which in my opinion is absolutely inadmissible. For example, I consider a bit of a provision not to treat responsible persons in public law... This Regulation shall enter into force on the [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] The Law on Administrative Disputes hereby declares a serious violation of official duty either on this law or on specific laws governing official relations. This would result in a certain procedural discipline and would prevent the obstruction of the court at least by the authorities of the state administration and other state bodies and bodies of the units of local, regional (regional) self-government, or in the event of any other type of sanctioning and non-compliance with the legal provisions which would cover all public authorities, which would contribute to the acceleration of the procedure. As the bill itself states, there was a need for... In accordance with this Article, certain provisions of the Law on Administrative Disputes would point to some of me being vague about Article 94. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] The law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is stated in paragraph 5 that the individual decision contains an instruction on the legal medicinal product in which it is incorrectly stated that the action is not permitted. The action may be brought within 90 days of the date on which the party has found out or could therefore know about the possibility to file an action. I have to admit, I find those provisions a little questionable and confusing. What does the expression mean she could have found out? It could be found out in fact in the case of paragraph 3 if it is physically possible to be immediately the same day after the decision was taken. Then she could find out. It could have come to a body which did not deliver a decision, as soon as the decision was taken by the body and thus found out about it. Does that mean subjective inability or objective? In the event of subjective inability, the possibility of a regional lawsuit may be extended for years indefinitely and, in the case of objective impediment, it may also be extended for years to file an action. Was that an emergency? Too much inaccuracy in my opinion in that provision. A similar objection could also be made to the pronunciation referred to in paragraph 5. In fact, the party could also learn about the possibility of filing an action as soon as the contested decision has been taken and as soon as the party has been able to examine the law on the basis of which it has the right to file an action. Is that an emergency or something? I think it would be good for the motionor to consider improving expressions in that provision as well. In my personal opinion, in order to better protect the rights of the parties, I should set some longer objective deadline for the action from the date of the decision if the decision has not been made to the party or if the decision provides the wrong guidance on the remedy. I would also point out the provisions of Article 53(2). The law stating that access to parts of the case file may be denied if necessary in order to protect the public interest, the interest of one of the parties and the interest of third parties. And here I think it would be good to look for a clearer and better solution. How, for example, will the party file a complaint if the decision was made on the basis of parts of the file that she had no insight into? If one party has access to the file and the other party has no access to it, does that put them in an unequal position before the court? I'd say yes. And what are the interests of one of the parties or third parties? That if we just... take it literally as it says, and how otherwise laws can not be interpreted as material interests and they could be protected by this provision at the expense of other interests of the party who has been denied access to the file. It's the opposite of course to the spirit of the law, but this does not exclude such interpretation. I therefore propose that there be a more precise determination of the legislator's intention here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9558	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister, Ms Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9559	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would also like to thank you for your support for this proposal. I think the support shows that this logical reason that we have presented in the explanation represents a sufficient basis for the proposal. We put the proposal in line with the rule, and the possible exception we had couldn't then be more detailed, different from what we did. I'll just take a quick look at it, the proposal for education and the specialisation of judges we certainly accept, but we're working on it now and this change is also in this direction to allow individuals and in administrative disputes to specialize and later, to further educate in the field they deal with. The law on administrative disputes and the introduction of an administrative trial was an obligation to bring our legislation and legal system into line with EU standards and precisely because Article 6. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms gave the citizen the right to decide on its legal issues by law established by an impartial court, is the fact that decisions by public authorities cannot be considered decisions of the Court precisely because they are not a court. The fact that the control of the legality of public bodies is decided before the Administrative Court cannot be seen as a basis for a different composition of the court. It is not a public court, so that it should therefore require a higher level of administrative trial through, say, the composition of the council or the existence of a council in decision-making. The issue of costs which has been raised may be resolved by changing the tariffs of lawyers, and may also be applied by state lawyers when calculating the costs. We'll definitely consider that. I would also mention working on a system of free legal aid that also has its effect here. Of course, we will respect any proposal that would lead to rationalisation and reduction of the procedure, and in short, only this last thing we talked about was the concepts that the party might find out. It's about legal standards that are otherwise used in law and are very clearly interpreted so I don't think any further clarification should be required here. But I will repeat, thank you for the debate, and we will certainly take into account all that has been said and prepare an appropriate further proposal until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9560	I thank the Deputy Minister. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9561	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes, first reading, P.Z. No. 94, that's the point we're about to plead on. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will also be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's to this conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that the conclusion was reached unanimously with 130 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9562	We're going to the next item on the agenda. In accordance with Article 205 of the Financial Rules of Procedure may be amended during the session. - Environmental status report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008, Report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 51. Environmental protection laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9563	Good afternoon, thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, on behalf of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I would like to explain our proposal for a report on the state of the Republic of Croatia's environment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Environmental protection law drafted draft environmental reports of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008. The final draft report was agreed in 2011 with the opinion of all relevant bodies after which the then Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction directed it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit it to the Parliament. The government accepted the final draft report at its 135th session held on 21 June 2011 and referred it to the parliamentary procedure. The report was adopted by the Environment Protection Committee, the session was held on 27 September 2011 and was put on the agenda of the 24th session of the Parliament. However, this point has not come to the turn of adoption, and due to the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament, the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia has not been adopted so far. The procedure was restarted after a new government and ministry was established. All comments by the new resolution bodies have been considered and most of them have been incorporated in the draft report. The National Environment Report was drawn up for the period 2005 to 2008 in order to meet the need to monitor the achievement of the objectives and documents of sustainable development and environmental protection. The environmental protection strategy and the National Environment Action Plan and other strategic programming documents related to certain environmental and burden components as well as other documents related to environmental protection and for the sake of full insight into the state of the country's environment. The report on the state of the Republic of Croatia's environment is adopted for a four-year period and continues on the previous report on the state of the environment in 2007 which covered the period until 2005, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 25 May 2007. The report was developed by the Environment Protection Agency for the Ministry of Environment Protection, based on data collected through the ISC Environment Information System and direct cooperation with relevant bodies and institutions. The content of the report is prescribed by the Environmental Protection Act and includes the review and achievement of the objectives set out in the basic strategic and planning documents on environmental protection, environmental data in the area for which the report is submitted, the assessment of the situation, the assessment of the effectiveness of the measures implemented in the environmental management system and the data on the use of financial resources for environmental protection, the assessment of the need to draw up new or amend the complementarity of existing documents and other relevant data for environmental protection. As the form of the report is not prescribed, it is decided to follow the approach that is common when drawing up similar reports from most EU countries. This approach implies the classification of the environment area to sectoral burdens and environmental components, and an indication of data based on environmental indicators. In view of the fact that the previous Environment Report is a zero state of such a data display, this report has resulted in continuity in monitoring and assessing progress in certain areas of the environment and in a comprehensive overview of the state of the country's assessment. Indicators in the area of air, climate change and damage to the ozone layer of water, sea, soil and biodiversity and the environment of health as well as economic sectors – energy, industry, agriculture, forestry, fishing, hunting, transport, tourism and chemicals and waste. The environmental burdens observed over the period shown by a total of 230 indicators, of which 118 indicators deal with sectoral burdens, 107 environmental components, and 5 general environmental protection issues. The report shall contain 5 wholes. The first part - sectoral burdens, the second part - environmental components, the third part - general environmental issues, the fourth part - the conclusion and the contributions covering a total of 22 chapters. The final part of the report gives an overview of legislation and institutional strengthening in the field of environmental protection and the assessment of the general social and business climate with regard to environmental protection and conservation issues. Given that the vast majority of indicators follow long-term trends, it is therefore necessary to collect, process and agree with environmental reports in general at certain time intervals of two years, which is a practice in other EU countries, but also in the case of a 5-year European environmental report produced at EU level by the European Environment Agency and submitted to the European Commission. In the event of adoption of this report, the shift was significantly longer with the acquisition of these circumstances. I must first stress that this report has become an official part of the European report and that this is the way we propose that this report be adopted, given that a good part of it has already been adopted by the EU Environmental Protection Report. This is the way I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9564	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the board want to take a word? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Deputy Associate. The HDZ Club will support the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia between 2005 and 2008. The space of nature, the environment, whatever they call it, is fundamentally national good, and therefore carefully or better said carefully planning and managing this space because of its limitations and threats, it is necessary to assume the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and certainly by considering it in a broader context in its European future. According to the Indian proverb that we did not inherit nature from our ancestors, we borrowed it from our descendants in itself tells us of the need for careful as I said planning and managing that nature, that is, that space. The sustainable development synthesis, which implies economic growth on the one hand, investment in the economy, which requires, and then, in this sense, the construction of significant infrastructure facilities must be absolutely consistent with the need to preserve this space and must be a balance between economic development on the one hand and, on the other hand, sustainable, i.e. environmental conservation, nature conservation. Often in realisation, the construction of certain economic facilities, in the construction of transport infrastructure, in the construction of energy infrastructure, we feel that strict provisions on environmental protection hinder, slow down, realisation of individual projects. We are particularly aware of this in recent days if we are observing this syntagma in the context of the need to build certain energy facilities such as Ombla, such as Plomin in which strict environmental protection provisions, which we have largely taken over from European directives under Chapter 27, Chapter 27, often I say that we are needlessly stopped in the realisation of large, important infrastructure and energy projects. But as much as it is sometimes so and certain obligations versus environmental protection slow us down in the realisation of certain projects, we must not tire ourselves of insisting that all these projects go beyond the very control they establish and bring in studies or projects that further protect the environment. Therefore, out of the desire for rapid development, we must not put aside the realisation of certain projects, forget that there exist on the other hand and provisions that protect the environment, which make up this one balance, that balance between the progress and the conservation of the environment that I have said in my introduction, inherited and borrowed from my descendants, respectively. In order to determine whether we are really protecting the environment, it is necessary to have one systematic report based on a sufficient number of data from all areas of the environment and which can be compared to previous reports. As we heard in the introduction from Mr. Deputy Minister, the latest report adopted by this House was adopted in 2007, which dealt with the period until 2005. This today's report, which in any case is more systematic, based on over 230 data from all areas of the environment than air, water, soil, energy, transport, etc., etc. It can be compared to this period by 2005 and the report itself shows that the Republic of Croatia has made a significant step in the area of environmental protection and not only with legislation that further protects the environment, that in the consciousness of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the need for environmental protection today is significantly higher than that of the time that preceded this reporting period. At the very meeting of the Environment Protection Committee, there were questions about whether it was a 4-year delay, how long since this reporting period it was really too long for the Croatian Parliament to be able to hold a valid, up-to-date discussion of the report, if I may say so. However, given the fact that a large number of data collected systematically has been used to produce this report, whose processing really requires a long period of time. It is also a practice for the Member States of the European Union to require approximately a deadline for drawing up the Report, about 2 years from the reporting period. So, in this sense, we can also accept that, today 2012, the Environment Report for 2005-2008 is being discussed. Years. What I would like to point out in particular, as pointed out in this Report, is an assessment of the situation in certain areas, as Mr Deputy said it is indeed a broad spectrum of all possible environmental components. I would single out only two, three components that point to the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, he would look back at space and population. Namely, it is seen during this period for which the Report was submitted, the trend of urbanisation of cities and settlements in the first row in the coastal area. According to the Institute, the State Office for Spatial Planning in the Republic of Croatia was planned at the end of 2008 for 462 670 hectares of building land. Of this planned, these planned areas were built around 216 360 hectares, or 47% of planned building land. Therefore, this data shows that during this reporting period in the Republic of Croatia, there are indeed more than 2 million Croatians who could live in the area. As a result, during this time period, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was adopted, which was practically imposed on local self-government units to move towards the creation of new spatial plans and to reduce this intended area for construction of any cities in the Republic of Croatia, which has indeed happened. So according to data from the State Office for Spatial Planning at the end of 2011 a 15% reduction in the total area planned for development of settlements in the Republic of Croatia and thus 63% of the total building land in the Republic of Croatia was built today. Which means that a great step has really been made to protect the space in the Republic of Croatia. During this period, coastal areas were protected by the introduction of the Institute of the Sea Protection, which is indeed limited by the Institute to construction in the coastal area. On the one hand, very strict criteria have been introduced in spatial planning which have practically forced local self-government units to reduce construction areas on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is very careful to make decisions that determine and make urban plans. There were urban planning arrangements, whether detailed plans, or spatial plans of urban planning, or municipalities. So, to the Institute of the Protected Coastal Area of the Sea, which was adopted in this Assembly in 2004. For years, order has been introduced into the spatial arrangement primarily in the coastal area and thus additionally protected coastal areas of the sea. What the data I mentioned earlier clearly shows, which is related to the Adriatic Croatia and most of the reduction in these construction areas, happened precisely in this coastal area, which we were very much witnessing, and we are clearly devasting during the period preceding this reporting period. Therefore, if in this context we also observe the proposed Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, and we will see that the Government has now given up on the preservation of that area, because in the proposal for a law that will be discussed very quickly practically nowhere mentions the protected coastal area of the sea. And I think it's one lack of that law, but we'll talk more about it when that law is discussed here in the Parliament. What I can only say is that we at the HDZ Club will not support the fact that there is no more distinction in the Croatian space between other spaces and protected coastal areas of the sea, which is certainly the most valuable spatial resource in the Republic of Croatia. The second part, which I would like to look back on, is the area of traffic. Because the report itself shows and reads that this period from 2004 to 2008 is dominantly marked by lying in transport infrastructure, i.e. in road infrastructure. I dare say that, not before and after the first decade of the 21st century, it will be as much invested in road, transport infrastructure as it has invested in the past, during this reporting period, and that is when highways are built in Croatia. Which is also very prominent in this report itself. And clearly that this fact then resulted in an increase in environmental burden, precisely because road traffic is at least friendly towards the environment. In the second decade of the 21st century, it will certainly be more pronounced to invest in other forms of transport, primarily in rail transport, then in river and maritime transport. Therefore, this report was just given to read that, the largest investment in the Republic of Croatia was in transport infrastructure, primarily in the construction of road infrastructure, i.e. in the construction of highways. In the area of energy and industry, energy efficiency and renewable energy use projects are still under way, and a kind of momentum, although not spectacular. But the momentum in this section is evident in this second period for which, according to the ministry itself, we will have the report in 2014 when we would practically comply with European practice to discuss in Parliament a report on the state of the environment 2 years after the reporting period. What also marks this period 2005/2008 This year is an extremely, extremely large job done in the adoption of new legislation which was practically in line with European legislation at the time and which allowed legislation to also introduce order in the conservation of the environment in the Republic of Croatia. This is the time when significant legislation relating to waste management, recovery of wild dumps, the need to build new regional waste management centres etc., etc. is adopted. In any case, we will support this report in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community because it reads that the awareness of the need to preserve the environment was increased in that period in Croatia because of the regulation that was adopted, the legislation that was adopted in any case, compared to the period before that. And we can estimate that the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia in 2008 is satisfactory. Therefore, here I repeat, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9566	Thank you. The next is on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club representative Dragutin Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9567	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy minister with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Any discussion of the report, the regulations, the draft laws, round tables and other activities that regulate environmental matter also raise particular attention among those who are officially and professionally engaged in it, but also citizens of interested associations could be told to the general public. And why is that? Because the environment and everything related to it directly affects the quality of our life in particular health, the care for it depends on the preservation and protection of natural resources, i.e. the protection of all life on earth. But environmental protection also causes attention because it is also related to large economic activity and that business is especially with waste management one that we like to say and the last time we heard one of the most profitable jobs. We've been witnessing what's been going on lately. Reports, media reports associate possible abuses, illegalities, bickering to the charge of individuals' activities and legal persons with regard to waste business, but not only with waste, but with most of what is related to the state and protection of the environment. We all want a secure supply of electricity, but we don't want a hydro or a thermal power plant near us. We all produce waste, but take care and dump as far away from us as possible. That's how code could be said at all. And what is the real state of the environment should present this report to us. Unfortunately, it concerns the 2005/2008 period. A year. I believe that this report was to be found earlier on the Parliament's agenda, which was delivered to the Parliament in the middle of last year. It is not logical to report for 2005/2008. submits to the Parliament in 2012, i.e. 4 years behind, i.e. after the year for which the report is submitted. If there are any valid reasons the delay is still too long. It is no excuse that certain important aspects of the environment were or are still within the jurisdiction of a higher ministry such as forests and waters in one, protection of the sea in the other, protection of nature in the third, protection of soil and soil crust in the fourth, and that, by reorganisation of the Government in 2008, certain sectors have contributed to other ministries, and what is particularly important not because, in the reporting period, two expert operational bodies for the functioning of environmental protection have taken over the production of these businesses. The first body is the Environment Protection Agency as a central national body for the collection and processing of all data and information in the field of environmental protection at country level. The second Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the body responsible for financing the preparation, implementation and development programmes in the areas of sustainable use, protection and promotion of the environment and energy efficiency. It would be good to report for the period 2009/2012. from the competent authorities to come to the Assembly for debate within an acceptable and significantly shorter period. It is certainly important to mention that it is 2005/2008 at that time. In order to bring Croatia's legislation into line with EU legislation, several new or revised legal and sub-legislative acts in the field of environmental protection are adopted, in particular in the area of waste management, air quality, climate change, biodiversity protection, and water management. Thus, during that period, only certain air protection laws, the Waste Act and amendments to the Waste Act, the Nature Protection Act, the Law on Forests, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, the Environmental Protection Act, and so on. They're over 60. Here it should be emphasized that environmental concerns can also slow down economic activities as from the example of the Krk terminal as well as other projects that have made us and makes us more energy-dependent. This calls for a balance of environmental protection and economic development, so-called Sustainable development. There are more examples like that. It is therefore very important to coordinate in the best possible way in the example of the best European standards on energy, production, transport and other economic potentials needed for the development of the country and to comply with environmental protection. Croatia has also made certain commitments under the pre-accession process, and these obligations require more precise procedures but also significant and greater investments in environmental protection. As regards the report itself, it covers, in general, data for certain areas not only for reporting purposes but also for longer periods on which trends can be monitored and evaluations not only of the present but also of the environmental situation in subsequent periods can be carried out. The form of the report is prescribed and follows similar reports in most EU countries. The report covers 22 chapters and data collected for this report, in fact their quality, accuracy and security constitute the overall quality of this report. Perhaps the report could have added some more data but there are enough to get a picture. My colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to talk about one of the most pressing problems we face today especially in local self-government units, and at this point it is particularly relevant and it is at the heart of the public. It's waste management and management. The data suggest that some 13.2 million tonnes of waste is produced annually in Croatia, representing 1.2 million tonnes of municipal waste in the waste structure. According to these data, each individual daily creates between 0,40 and 0,95 kg of waste. It's worth 0.1 million tons of waste with the trend of growth. The increase in production of all types of consumer goods is accompanied by an even greater increase in waste, and relatively increased waste is growing and pollution of our natural environment. We are still far from quality organized collection, sorting, recycling and waste management. However, this issue will soon be here for discussion, so I will not go further and open the topic. The HNS Club will support the report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005-2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9568	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9569	Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I would rely on my predecessors and actually support everything they said in their presentations on this report, on the one hand, that it was really late because the period and data actually refers to the period from 2005-2008, on the other, that it was quite quality because it is thorough and extensive and has a very wide range and wide range of topics and aspects relating to environmental protection, on the other hand, that it might have been able to cover some topics that did not cover. And 4. that it would really be good if the reports relating to the period 2009 to 2012 were already in the process at least next year, and the data that will be presented therein would be more relevant and more relevant than these present ones, although something had not changed so dramatically. So the report could hear how I will also refer to a few, in fact, the report is very comprehensively covering a lot of different parts of the issue regarding environmental protection and nature protection and it is certainly impossible to refer to the entire report, I will refer to several elements of that report, especially those concerning energy. Thus, it is said that energy supply from its own sources is moving around 48%. So much is moving towards the data available today in 2012. And since the total energy consumption level per capita of the Republic of Croatia is about 61.2% of the average energy consumption per capita in the EU, with the largest share of total energy consumption participating from around 30%, traffic from about 18 to 22%. Those elements are out there somewhere. Now, as regards the representation of certain energy sources in total consumption, current fuels, so oil and oil derivatives with a share of about 44 to 46%, followed by natural gas, which is involved in the share of energy in consumption with ok 27%, the share of water power in total consumption ranges about 10 to 16%, and the share of electricity in total energy consumption ranges between 4 and 6%. In the Republic of Croatia, as regards the production of oil, the energy most of which participates in the consumption of energy in the Republic of Croatia is produced in 35 oil fields while gas production is achieved on 8 gas condensed perhaps condensation fields. This total production in 2008, according to the report met 19.1% of Croatian current fuel needs, so 19.1% of oil needs met domestic production in 2008. I think there's a 19% movement here in 2012. As regards natural gas production, it is said that it is produced in 17 gas fields in the Pannonian area and 6 gas fields in the Adriatic, and that its natural gas supply in 2008 was 85.2% and when only natural gas from the Adriatic is included in the budget, which belongs to Croatia without natural gas belonging to Italy with natural gas, 63.5% of Croatian needs have been covered. I think it's about 60% of Croatian needs today. The question that we have all asked ourselves many times publicly and privately, if 60% of Croatian gas needs are achieved from Croatian production in what way and why the price of Croatian natural gas dictates the price of that part of gas imported from Russia. And why some stakeholders persistently and systematically impose on us how INA loses billions of kuna gas annually because of the price difference between imported natural gas from Russia and what is sold when more than 60% of Croatian gas needs are met from locations in the Republic of Croatia where the price is productive and delivery unmistakably lower than the price that that gas is supplied from Russia. Why is it persistent, it's not a random event, so it's a systematic thesis that certain stakeholders from that so-called. The gas lobby is systematically placed and most of the media delivers them and a good part of the policy supports them because the price of Croatian gas, because we meet 60% of our needs with Croatian gas. Therefore, the price cannot only be formed from that part, the smaller part imported from Russia. It's a similar thing with oil. The barrel of oil delivered and produced by wells here in Croatia in Moslavina, Slavonia, why should Croatian citizens pay as much as the barrel of those oil purchased on the international market and for some calculation from the Mediterranean market. It is the most expensive possible calculation that exists, which is only specially invented for this Croatian state and this poor people. That kind of calculation and that kind of calculation of the price of oil, I guess there's no one but us, that's the only thing we've managed to do for ourselves, that's how you search. However, 20% of this oil is produced in Croatia, and this oil cannot and should not be produced by whoever is producing it, who is exploiting it. Croatia's 50% oil company owned by the Croatian state, and gas 60% of gas needs mean it is created and exploited in Croatia and its price should not be and is not what those 40% of imports from Russia or other sources are paid. In terms of price, electricity, electricity consumption increases throughout the Republic of Croatia. According to the 2008 report, HEP's own production was 11810 gigawatt hours. This is accompanied by imports and Krško Nuclear Power Plants and all available energy is at 18902.5 gigawatt hours. We know that these contracts on imports of electricity were very different and very favourable and very unfavourable, that they depended on various factors or we had different administrations in HEP, depending heavily on the administrations that were in HEP. So, is this thesis that today is dominant about energy independence at all costs and at the cost of borrowing in billions of kunas 100% stands on a healthy basis. For example, we have countries like Japan that are not energy independent at all, although energy is very dependent, and the economy is very successful. As far as agriculture is concerned, this report is also partly referred to as agriculture. Agriculture does not participate more significantly in the pollution of nature, i.e. in the pollution of nature, since total agriculture I think with some 4% involved. The fact is that there is a constant trend of depopulation in agriculture, that the scope of agricultural production is decreasing in all segments. But what is also interesting is that the consumption of mineral fertilisers is increasing by a hectare of the surface, which states in this report that the consumption of mineral fertilisers is about 180 kg per hectare of the agricultural area, which the Republic of Croatia positiones at the very top of the consumption of mineral fertiliser per hectare of the agricultural area says in a report with leading EU Member States. Compared to the EU Member States, only the Benelux countries spend 190 kg per hectare of artificial fertilisers, Slovenia 185, and the Netherlands is here somewhere with a consumption of about 180 kg per hectare of mineral fertilisers, artificial fertilisers. It is very interesting that productivity and productivity per hectare of Croatian agricultural production are neither close nor close to those countries with which we spend the same amount of mineral fertiliser, and that is unfortunately something that I do not see why we should at all boast but one fact that can grieve, in fact it suggests that simply Croatian farmers are increasingly using natural land fertilisers and are increasingly turning to mineral fertilisers. In the case of irrigation, irrigation is doubled according to one operational programme and by 2008, around 18,000 hectares of agricultural land are irrigated. The fact is, with us, the prices of irrigation projects are incredibly high. I don't know how much these prices, however, agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is extremely cheap. The price of a hectare of agricultural land is 3 to 8.9 thousand euros. And the irrigation projects implemented in the Republic of Croatia ranged from 7 to 10 thousand euros per hectare. So when you divide each of these projects, I really don't know why these irrigation projects were so expensive and why the hectare, so the irrigation per hectare was more expensive than the very value of that land? Because that irrigation then makes sense, and it turns that investment back into decades. And I think there, in these irrigation projects, that a lot of people had to get dirty that weren't supposed to. As far as the report itself is concerned, we accept that report. It's good, it's extensive but it's very late. There's one more thing about waste management, that and that packaging waste, plastic waste is one very strange phenomenon that I think should actually say once. The whole country has turned into a collection of plastic packaging, all social resources, the entire nation needs to collect plastic packaging. The state will not in any way limit the production of plastic packaging, but will put compensation on both producers and consumers. Consumers will collect packaging, and packaging will be produced in unlimited quantities. Why is it so true to me that it was never clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9570	Thank you very much. This time I must admit that Mr. Djurovic, right in time, interrupted the debate, thank you very much. I suggest and I think it's a good thing we stop now, give a break, because all the representatives of the MPs' clubs have held a debate and we can continue at 15.00 hours with an individual debate. So, I'm taking a break until 3:00, and the first word has Mrs. Representative Marija Vukbratovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9571	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. An individual debate. Representative Marija Vukbratović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9572	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy, with an associate, a colleague and fellow MP. A report on the state of the environment for the period 2005 to 2008 was written on a total of 410 pages, a comprehensive and very quality document. The development of each chapter was attended by distinguished Croatian scientists and experts from the very area. This document gives an assessment of the state of the environment and as such an important tool in long-term environmental policy planning. It also points very clearly to weak points and makes recommendations where and which measures should reduce the burden on the environment. No doubt it takes a long time to produce such an extensive document. However, nearly 4 years that have passed since the end of the period analysed and until the results are announced are too long, some would even say unacceptable for a long time. In particular, I quote: "The assessment of the current situation as well as the assessment of trends for each area, observed improvements or again unsatisfactory shifts suggest that the effectiveness of certain applied environmental policy measures or in the event of a negative trend in the conservation of the environment to necessity and correction of the measures outlined." On the basis of the post-2008 report, the corrections of the observed negative trends or ineffectiveness of the measures were to be carried out to date. Unfortunately, due to this late presentation of the report, this has been missed, and possible negative trends have continued, and ineffective measures have contributed to the fact that the situation in some sectors is even worse, or even more difficult. Given the complexity and interdisciplinary nature of this report, which covers a very wide area, from industry, agriculture through traffic, tourism and waste management, and due to the time to enter all segments and non-instructions on all topics, I will look back on just some that are closer to me in view of my profession. The first topic I would refer to is the sectoral burden from agriculture. Croatian agriculture should aim at producing sufficient amounts of food for its own population. This can be achieved by returning to the production of abandoned farmland which, unfortunately, is becoming more or more intense by self-production. Intensification of agricultural production automatically means the use of increased amounts of fertilisers and protective products, and this may lead to significant environmental burden. On the other hand, according to the Rural Development Strategy, the objective of this model is to keep the population in rural areas, to equalise the quality of life in rural and urban areas, to enable the return of the population to rural areas, to increase the competitiveness of production and to create conditions for increasing the income of agricultural producers. And this way of intensifying agricultural production could lead to an increased burden on the environment and environmental pollution and justify an assessment that is mentioned on several occasions in this report that agriculture is one of the largest environmental pollutants. If Croatia had succeeded in achieving or at least most of its main food production activities in the past period, either from the Rural Development Strategy, perhaps I could agree with this assessment. However, the situation in Croatia is the following: there has been a depopulation of rural areas, there has been a reduction of the processing surfaces and an increase in the area under the forest, there has been a reduction of the stock fund, and cattle farming is one branch of agriculture that is actually considered the largest polluter of soil, water, and, in particular, air. That is why I personally believe that agriculture is far less polluting than it is often shown both in this report and in the media. Or that at least it's a smaller contaminant than some other sectors, such as some branches of industry, transport, waste dumps in the shape they are in today. The risk of environmental pollution in the agriculture sector exists, but for another reason, and this is an unfavourable and poor educational structure of farmers. Out of the total number of permanent farm employees, only 1.5% have finished high school and only 0.5% high school or college. For reasons of ignorance, excessive amounts of protective products are often used, double doses for each case, inadequate amounts of mineral fertilisers, false formulations and at the wrong time because the soil is fertilized, not the plant, as well as the use of liquid organic fertilisers at an unfavourable time in frozen or highly wet soil, regardless of what is legally regulated and prohibited. Unfortunately, this problem will be far more difficult for us to resolve, and it will take much more time to solve it. However, ignorance and poor soil management have also led to an assessment of the achievement of the targets in the National Plan for Environmental Action in one of the environmental components, which is the ground, there is no positive assessment. Those who read the report know it's the day's grade that the situation is assessed through those smiles, right? Are they laughing, are they sad, are they indifferent? So when we talk about the ground, there's not one smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley smiley face. Although the soil is the bearer of numerous functions necessary for life on earth because it provides food, biomass, raw materials, the habitat is and although non-renewable or only conditional renewable resources at the end of the reporting period the situation was the following: local pollutants have been identified in total and mineral oils, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, polychlorinated biphenyls, herbicide residues and heavy metals. The erosion process is present, and there is a permanent acidification of soil and degradation of organic matter, which could be a very big problem for us. In the valley of Neretva, the surfaces of salty soils are permanently increased, but there is also an increased degree of salinity, while in the area of Slavonia and Baranja there is a gradual spread of alkali soils due to alkaliisation. Unfortunately, the situation is no better today in 2012. It has not yet been established or perhaps better to say some attempts have been made, but it has not revived the entire system of permanent monitoring and storage of soil status data. The data collected were obtained using different analytical methods, so they are not comparable, and are located at various locations in local and regional (area) government bodies, whether in scientific research institutions. Most of the previously obtained data are not stored in digital form and there is a risk of permanently losing. I point out this by what I believe could become a major problem with Croatia's entry into the European Union. At that time, it will not be enough just to talk about Croatia as a state of exceptional convenience for the production of healthy food, because of the cleanness of air, the water that we are decorated with, but we will need to have solid evidence in the form of often carried out analyses, standard methods, established databases, etc. In order not to get the wrong picture of the state of the environment again, I must stress that it is a happy circumstance, that the situation is in some other environmental components such as The air and water are much better, or at least I don't know about the problems in those components. Contaminants in these sectors are less dangerous because they are easier to solve. The soil can suffer long-term pollution and absorb large amounts of harmful substances, but once polluted soil is difficult to restore, and sometimes pollution is so strong that the soil is permanently lost to production. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this report is a well-determined problem and can be a quality basis for repairing bad and unfavourable situations in some sectors and that is why I will personally support it. At the same time, I appeal to the Ministry of Environmental Protection as the main coordinator for making such reports. In order to take measures to ensure that the next Report for the next period of 2012 is drawn up more quickly and put to the debate by all interested parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9573	Thank you. We have one replica on your exhibit, Agent Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vukbratović, I'm really just kind of happy that you're just here for the first time, on the left, I'm a miracle that someone was talking about agricultural issues this quality. You spoke professionally, of course, in that part, so the soil and all the others and the needs of education. It certainly all stands and greets, but I would like to express one concern here, of course, about agriculture, concern, but, of course, also about the environment. Because it is undeniable that the situation in agriculture is whatever it is, agriculture was in some way creating a competitor, but the production of milk has been increased, however, meat production and everything else. However, under these circumstances, support has been reduced today, when support is not paid. Agriculture is absolutely questionable, therefore, and the environment as such. Many fields will be abandoned, because already 380 dairy producers have closed their production for now. There will be more ambrosia and all these efforts, more ambrosia therefore in all these places and all these efforts that would therefore be needed to make it all better, yes and in this professional part I think will be in vain. That rural space is in danger, in any case, in that part and that population and all that, and that pearl that we need to stay, and I'm afraid in those circumstances, that's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9575	Thank you. We continue with the debate, representative of Ruža Tomasic. She's gone? He's losing his right to debate. The next one was signed up by representative Zlatko Komadin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me a few words, here I come from a region where there's a lot of infrastructure, which energy objects actually pose a latent danger or permanently polluting the environment, such as a refinery, such as a thermopower plant. So are some other or future procedures that are planned, such as the company Adria, or it's still either LNG terminal and such things. I want to say that, that's what colleagues have already said, and I hope that future reports like this will come when they are no longer prehistory like this report many years ago. We were supposed to get it by some logic in 2009, not us predecessors, but here it is now. And I think that in any case, a report of such a nature should certainly contain a plan of measures and activities to improve the situation in those segments where environmental damage has been observed. First of all, I am pleased that Croatia is still a well-preserved country, above all seas. The quality of the sea is literally throughout Croatia, so excellent, the quality of drinking water to a large extent, well with the ground you heard the problems the colleague said. I'll say something about air problems. We have in a particular game of locations, actually which are a permanent source of problems, for example Plomin was mentioned, will still be mentioned, Rokvul, then the INA refinery on Urinj, as well as the thermal power plant Rijeka on Urinj. On these few examples, I'd like to say that we have solutions that we don't actually use, because the environment itself doesn't object, there's no one to talk about but us for the environment, except that nature is rebelling in the finality, so it punishes us primarily by the effects of greenhouse gases and climate change. And we ourselves are often hypocritical to the environment, because any procedure can be realized, industrially or any other, only with adequate technology to protect the environment. Of course, it costs more, or more, than investors try to avoid it. And what I would suggest is that in the Environmental Impact Study, that studies should work on me people or hire them people from the ministry. In terms of an independent story that, let go of the cost, the cost of the investor's burden, but like this when an investor orders Impact Studies regardless of what is defined by law by a certain composition etc. Often, state people in these institutions, or those appointed by the state, are in a situation that, because the profession, too, you know a bit of a strain to behave according to certain procedures, so that the investment goes and sees through the fingers of certain things, or the project task is set so as not to give answers to all questions, but only to the narrow part concerning a particular procedure. It was an example of Studies of all of these, which I mentioned in these projects, for example, the company of Adria did not take into account. After we made the noise, so to speak from local and regional environments, she didn't take care of the balance waters, she didn't take care of the oil gases and the smell that would happen at the time. In case they don't make adequate processing and processing facilities, which are these oil gases. A similar story was at the LNG terminal, because the investor only later went on double tanks, buried etc. to protect the possible leak of that medium and all that together. So for example, you have one absurd down in our area. Where you have a Janaf company that has a submarine pipeline in the INA refinery Urinj and at the Rijeka thermal power plant just built to transport oil purchased by pipeline to these two economic operators. And then because of the internal interests or because of the higher profits, the pipeline is not at all functional, but each of these companies binds the tanker in front of them, in front of them, because both companies are on the coast, and they praet the oil directly with the risk of spilling oil into the sea, and it has a complete infrastructure to solve it. In addition, the country needs to meet the criteria for imports of fuels, i.e. It's thermal-electric oil. Because this is the truth I'm telling you right now. The Rijeka thermal power plant uses fuel that does not comply with regulations that contain far more sulphur and actually creates a huge pollution in that area of the Kvarner Bay. Also studies are often said missing examples of Rockul. Rockul’s investment is let’s say commendable in the sense that some employment and production took place, however, did not take into account the micro-climate conditions in that part of Istria where the simple air currents to keep gas emissions from their plants. The tide of the new, new Plomin will likely pollute far less than the old Plomin so that in that part. However, the total pollution of course will be greater because there will be greater capacity. Anyway, any procedure I say can only go to need energy operations to meet the three Es principle means to be both economic and energy but also environmentally appropriate. And in that context, I say our ministry is just now being conceived to be the one who cares and protects the environment from the side effects. And that's why I'm here and I'm sorry that colleague Mirela Holly who was on that trail had to step down but I believe that politics, the ministry will continue in that direction not to stop investment but to really force investors to respect this principle of three, means the principle primarily ecologically when implementing projects so that it's called sustainable development is a real truth and not a declaration. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9577	Thank you. Next up for debate, counsel Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9578	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In preparation for this debate, I remembered the letters of the 1854 Indian chief Seattle sent to the American president in Washington in response to an offer that white people buy an Indian country. I read it again after a few years and although I believe someone has already read the extracts from this letter to this House I have an irresistible need to repeat a part here, and I think it seems illuminating. He says: “All things are related as the blood that unites the family. Whatever the earth finds will befall the sons of the earth. A man doesn't tissue the tissue of life he's just the waist in it. Whatever makes the weaving work itself." I have to admit that this letter 160 years ago sounds really fascinating and prophetic, he wouldn't be ashamed of the best speaker today. Reading this report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, it can be said that the exhaustive and truly professionally designed, very correct, statistically exhaustive and scientific cold. For my taste, maybe too cold. I don't know if I'm right, but I'd probably be under the influence of that letter I read, too, and I'd like to feel a little spirit of that Indian chief talk some 160 years ago. Well, the truth is that the primary task of this agency is to collect and process data, provide information, and that it is my subjective, some inexplicable feeling caused by the fact that whenever we talk about protecting the environment, it somehow catches me in some way, perhaps even unwarranted, I hope it's unwarranted. But I'm saying grab me and chill when I read the report, when I realized it was about the period from 2005 to 2008. This fact somehow gives rise to the impression that despite the complexity of matter, the late submission of the report points to a certain negligence toward thematics. The report should be a basis for taking certain steps and making policies, and you will recognise a 4-year gap significantly reduces its potential for such intentions. Although the report should have been submitted in the previous meeting and in mid-2011, it would have considered the report too late. In view of everything that has happened in the past, I believe that things will change for the better and in light of the fact that a special Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection has been formed, which points to hope for new winds. Fortunately, everything isn't so gray. Indicators from that 2008 say that we can still say fresh and smelly even though I have a feeling we haven't put too much effort to keep it that way first we can thank factors that aren't the result of systematic work but rather say coincidences. Thus, we read that the focus on sustainable development projects is still insufficient. Through the Fund's programmes and energy efficiency projects and the use of renewable energy sources, only a little more than 94 million kuna has been invested in 525 projects, so we import over 50% of the energy. Although energy from renewable sources is more expensive than conventional ones, I will repeat my view that when it comes to fostering renewable energy sources, it is not possible to look at the mere ratio invested without looking at a wider picture. First of all, encouraging our own production from renewable sources, affecting the reduction of the balance of payments deficits, adopting and developing new technologies. So we become richer for knowing how it also has its measurable value and we hire new people who pay contributions and taxes and most importantly reduce environmental damage. A value none of the financiers put into their balance sheets. That Indian chief from the beginning of the story was crystal clear 160 years ago. Unfortunately, I don't think it's enough yet. Due to the decline of industry and smaller investments, the environment suffered less damage, but it was also evident that an increase in the number of extraordinary events in the industry from 17% to 27.8. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that trend will continue. No significant developments have also been recorded in the field of project launch of cleaner production of a naturally defined strategic framework. What do you say to that? So let's do that strategic framework. I would personally advocate further relief from such projects. These projects should also be given special attention by those in charge of the development of the economy and by those in charge of environmental protection and by those in charge of fiscal issues. For example, we cannot compete with China in the production of cheap plastic or something similar to that produced in its plants where environmental protection is not exactly at the highest level. Under such conditions, cheap labour will always be naturally competitive in the price. I don't think we should try it that way. Obviously, we only have a way out of specialization in certain areas. In my opinion, at least part of the attempt to specialize in organic production in both industry and agriculture is trying to create their own image and brand in this and do everything we can to encourage this production. One solution could be, for example, the reduction of taxes and taxes on workers employed in the sector. Because what we really value is having high taxes and contributions to non-existent jobs. Okay, if we drop our taxes suddenly and contribute to all states, they will clearly kneel. But if we aimly move to encourage this segment I think we have the hope of running it and putting it on our feet. I therefore call on competent experts from interested ministries to at least try to make some projections in this direction. The report finds that the strong upward trend of the ecological agricultural area but only 0.75% belongs to organic production, and only 0.27% of the agricultural holdings deal with organic farming. If anyone has ever entered a healthy food store, they have testified that 95% of the products are from imports and most often from Western countries. Environmental agriculture is more labour intensive than conventional and logically, it would be that products from countries where labour is 300 or 400% more expensive than we can be competitive with our own. And logically, it would be that it produces countries where the workforce is 300 or 400% more expensive than we can be competitors of our own. And it's logical that we here sell our organic products in Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden because we have both labour and experts of equal quality and far cheaper than they do in their countries. But no, it's exactly the opposite of they're selling here. And the agronomy engineers with us are almost our only hope of hiring... to some ministry or some local office right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Clearly, there is also a framework to be created, as said in one place, the strategic framework. Well, let's go, let's get to work. I really expect everyone interested to start with initiatives. We, somehow, in all the systems that we have lived in, are too clean to take very good habits, so we have so inherited, complicated and impenetrable bureaucracy that traditionally lacks the creativity of individuality and often prevails that philosophy we will tomorrow and we will easily do so. Well, everyone expects someone else to start things up so someone else can be responsible. And, of course, no one is happy to go out with their ideas and initiatives if at least a little gets out of his jurisdiction zone if he doesn't necessarily have to. I call for a clear change in the paradigm. If, therefore, all those who have at least part of the problem in their area of interest, especially at the level of state authorities, simply have to take on themselves to be drivers of these changes. The problem of organic agriculture is the focus of tourism. The report happily shows that the number of blue flags on the Adriatic is still on the rise. However, all things are related to this Indian chief, so the segment of transport in which the abandonment of environmentally acceptable forms of transport and of course related to ecology and tourism is established. The steps in this direction seem to be in motion, there are announcements from HEP about the construction of the power supply network as well as announcements that it will facilitate the purchase of electric vehicles that I had the opportunity to hear firsthand in the ministry. ... rich but I'm under the impression that we don't take it seriously enough except at some declarative level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just say at its local level, I can see that there's no clear idea and vision of how to solve the sewer problem. For example, more than 40,000 people in the eastern part of Zagreb Sesvetima are not connected to the sewerage network, but the problem of wastewater is solved either by septic pits or by firing in local water streams or fields. It's too expensive and too complicated, so no one's considering solving the problem in due course. And this problem is ideal right now for solving through structural funds after 1.7.2013. But the impression I have is that everyone is waiting for someone else to start it. Otherwise, joining the population with the public discharge system is 44%, which is inadmissible. It also concerns the fact that there is a process of acidification of soil and degradation of organic matter especially on agricultural land. Obviously, these things are not going in the right direction, certain measures are being required. Again, I think that a greater focus on organic agriculture could give that positive shift. The conclusion of this report is that it's still a positive atmosphere. It is cited as a legislative, institutional strengthening of the positive change in the general social and business climate towards environmental protection and conservation issues. Energy consumption is still moderate, air quality and water preserved at previous levels. Therefore, I would like to thank the Agency's employees for their comprehensive and professional report, I support it and I believe that it will give no matter what the period of 4 years ago is, sufficient information needed to make environmental protection policies more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9579	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Marijan Skurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9580	Here's the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk first of all about the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia we must be aware that actually the greatest wealth we have in our country is a well-preserved environment. Preserved drinking water, preserved forests, clean air, soil, sea, that is our greatest value on the future market in Europe. At the same time, this report also speaks with exhaustion with its own comprehensiveness, because if this report was included and practical in addition to the ministry's resolution and all ministries, also various agencies, institutes, universities, and it took almost 4 years to really talk about one complexity of environmental protection approach. Of course, we can also mention that in general we also find that significant positive developments have been made in the general state of society in general according to environmental problems and topics. Why? Because no matter what, it's all people do to the environment. This attitude is particularly pleased to define how through many programmes and projects defined primarily by children from kindergartens, schools and those of the "school in Nature", the international programme "Eco Schools" and through numerous associations, civil associations dealing with environmental protection in the report has been mentioned that during the observed period such associations have increased 40%. We can also conclude that systematic implementation and public information and strengthening its participation in processes and decision-making are important that this is the importance of protecting the environment, and if people are educated, then they can also play a very important role in creating a policy of legislation towards environmental protection and we should continue to do so systematically. I would, however, mention on the basis of the report three important things that are defined and in our relation to environmental protection. The first thing in my mind is that the environmental impact on human health and the quality of life must be above all else. Health is what we all have. When we run out of it, it's hard to come back, and that's why we really have to do everything to protect people's health and their quality. Unfortunately, we have bad examples and deaths, examples of outbreaks, malignancies, allergic diseases, anything that does not suit our approach to environmental protection and our nature is defined. Another thing I'd like to mention is environmental protection we need to look through economic, market and social development. Why do you have to invest so much? So far, all these investments have mostly been made by the state. Of course, what we need to do, which is that we are much more using the funds from EU funds that we have so far been because it really seems that these funds have been fully highlighted for environmental protection, means building water supply system purifiers and other parts, which means that Europe itself in that part defines how we should behave. And of course we have great opportunities to develop through environmental protection, primarily in energy through energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, there is sun, wind, biomass, small hydrothermal and geothermal energy. There is tourism, so over tourism these years and past only we have had some growth and investment, also construction, the whole industry, the development of agriculture, forestry, fisheries with a great deal of diversity, not to mention traffic, hunting and, of course, waste management. The third thing I would like to mention is that, in all these areas of development and environmental protection, spatial planning documentation, i.e. the creation of a legal basis, at all levels, starts from local, regional, national and of course Croatia's entry into the EU and at European level. In that part, I would mention as far as local, regional levels are concerned that local administrations must first of all make spatial plans that are the most important definitions of how, where, in which space some things define. Here I would mention one particular part about nature parks, perhaps in my opinion we protect too much, we do too much of it in nature parks, not to mention certain specificities, for example. if the nature park is provided up to a well-organized road where the municipal infrastructure is difficult to tell someone that there really is nothing more they can do or build. We still have to look at the specificity of each part. Also around spatial plans when we define and install exploitation fields. Here I can say a specific case, it's hard to tell someone in this economic development that one exploitation field... is absolutely adapted to all legal conditions around the recovery itself while also one exploitation field is 10 km away and this specificity that when you finish it all, the company goes bankrupt and then you don't know who will end up closing it together. The person who invests this in protection is not market-equal to anyone who has not invested anything but has indeed come to a certain amount of funding and a certain profit through the devastation of nature and the environment, without being returned to society, to this environment that should be. Of course, with recovery plans, waste management plans, exploitation fields, other things, environmental impact assessment, development programmes, all what local and regional self-government must do, but of course there is always a problem with their resources around these plans. And there, indeed, from the state level of the resolution ministries, I should really do a lot of work at local level so that interaction together can define such programmes, and most importantly, priorities should be defined. What's most important in that moment, of course, the resources are always gone for everything. One of these things that I would mention about legislation, about negotiating with the EU would mention what is already waiting for us to protect the environment, for example air quality, and two years after accession, we need to reach the limit values of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, floating particles with an emphasis on Zagreb, Rijeka, Sisak and Kutin. Of course, the quality of liquid oil fuels should be at 1.1.2013. For the disposal of waste from 1.1.2019 we need to establish an integrated waste management system. All the centers have to be built, if they don't, we'll pay for the pens. In water quality, why water, from fertilising fertilisers, we need a minimum standard within four years of EU accession. By 31.12.2023, we have a deadline for building a wastewater treatment and treatment system. Water for drinking, minimum quality standards must be available by 31.12.2018. I mean, really, the deadlines look a long way off, but according to what we now have in the report in this part, we really need to make a lot of effort to make that part happen. Here's the end, and every report that's been brought must and give some kind of direction of development, some kind of strategy of this part that's coming to us. I don't always want our mouths full of phrases about how we have to carry out sustainable development. Otherwise, sustainable development implies a balance between social and economic development on the one hand and the preservation of the environment and natural resources on the other. Of course, we need to ensure the quality of life not only for today but what is important here is said for future generations. So I would like all those smiles that are in the report to define the goals achieved and have at least a full smile always at the end because we are if we have nothing else to do with our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9581	Thank you. Mr Zeljko Sabo applied for the debate next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9582	I thank the deputy president of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, in the report I received and received, there is not one very important and crucial thing that concerns five cities in Slavonia and Baranja. I found certain contracts signed by five cities by the 2009 mayor: Mayors, Vinkovci, Vukovar, Beli Manastir, Osijek and Ilock. A public ZOIS facility was established with the desire to register and build a regional dump in Antunovac. However, after certain political developments in the region, it appears that, by breaking up and even more cooperation between the HSP and HDZ and the change of local leaders in Osijek, there has been a lack of implementation of the project and the contract. The arbitration procedure in these five cities lost the court dispute in the first degree arbitration procedure and 8m euros is now questionable to return these cities. For the city of Vukovar, it's between 12 million and 15 million kuna. But it is not waiting, it is moving with a new facility in Jankovic, again the county brings together municipalities from Vukovar-Srijem County and cities and builds a new regional dump in Jankovic. The town of Vukovar didn't sign it, and they won't sign it. I ask you to take into account, within the framework of this report which will be for the next time period, these allegations and to make a quality report, and I ask you to continue to act in your work because the City of Vukovar currently has a disposal site of Petrovackska dol waste and where all municipalities and cities bring waste to Vukovar and everyone is satisfied. And so I ask that, either by law, we decide that this kind of arrangement at local level cannot be achieved without the Ministry and that we are not partners in all this. I hope if you need any more information related to these lists of mine, you can get them all and hopefully help solve this case and that the report that will be contained next year will also be contained with these allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9583	Thank you. Representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. First of all, I'd like to ask you a question, do you know, Deputy Minister, how much it costs to produce this report that we have on the agenda today as such? In fact, we are witnessing that we are assessing whether it is good or bad only by the cost of its cost. It doesn't seem to matter at all who is making it, whether it's competent or not, but ultimately it's only the price that matters. In fact, that's what our first Deputy Prime Minister teaches us in the last few days. Unfortunately for him, it doesn't seem to matter what the waist says. On May 20th, this year, he said that the Environmental Impact Study TE Plomin 3, which was carried out and completed, is awaiting a word. I wonder whose word? Obviously, it looks only his because several days later he declares that no matter what, all the thermopower plants and all the energy projects in the Republic of Croatia will be built. Not only does such statements degrade the profession, the will to preserve the environment and the opinion of the relevant institutions, but it also potentiates the non-compliance of such investments, in particular with the spatial plan of the Istrian County. ECONERGA's representative for the study, Mr Vladimir Jelavic, said that the decision of the County Assembly is not important anyway because HEP as an investor has confirmation from the ministry that this project is based on Croatia's spatial planning strategy and programme. What does strategy mean? How many of these strategies do we have in Croatia and how many of them complement and respect each other as such? According to this, every resolution ministry seems to be developing its own strategy, but no ministry is very interested in what any other ministry says. In particular, how many Mr. Cacic Minister of Economy is interested in what the Ministry of Environmental Protection says about the construction of Te Plomin 3? Does he have any interest in how many people in the lab are sick of cancer and why is that? Obviously not. Everything is crystal clear to him. How is it that the Plomin thing is clear only to him and investors, and apparently no one else is? Why isn't it clear even to you at the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Why is it not clear to the councils of the Istrian County Assembly who have decided to build the thermal power plant on gas rather than coal? Why is it not clear to any Labinian and Labinjan who are patients of oncology in Rijeka, Pula or Zagreb? And why doesn't he even make an effort as the economy minister who obviously only knows, and in doing so, even as the first vice president of this Croatian government, explain it all to us to the ignorant who have been living with this thermopower plant for several decades and sharing our daily life and health with it? And how come we're all of a sudden building a block of C that's a tidal thermal power plant? Where's block A and block B? This could be discussed very much, and the answer would not be found out because it is obvious that we do not know all those hidden intentions that are so easily and blatantly manipulated by citizens. We have a defined project, we know the investment sum, we have a number of partners who want to participate, there is not even the cost of the state because there is a value we can enter, Cacic said. Each of these numerous partners is also a man whose health is threatened and everyone deserves to be heard as a partner and his opinion is respected if we know what it means to be a partner. Even there is no cost of the state because there is a value we can enter, our first vice president says. The cost will not be only if these partners are heard and respected, and the only value we can enter is honesty, transparency and respect for the decision of the majority, and not in this case an individual who rules clearly everything and everything. When we discuss the Environmental Impact Study and whether this is the case in 2005 to 2008, it might be wise to also focus on the impact of all these powerful parameters on human health. Do we, or do we even try to do an analysis of the impact of all these programs that as such affect our health? When will we finally decide in Croatia that when we build any project, we will be obliged to design, apart from the Environmental Impact Study and the Health Impact Study, which is already a practice in many EU countries? Only when we agree to all our strategies, when certain reports and environmental conditions are upgraded in a way that respects the actual state of affairs, will we be able to say that these reports still make some sense. As long as we're doing the reports just to meet the norm or just because Europe or someone else is asking us to do it, they really don't make sense to us or to those who come after us. And finally, I'd like you to tell me, in your closing statement, what is the position of the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the construction of Te Plomin 3 or Block C, depending on how the practice of use is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9585	Thank you. We have on your exhibit a correction to the incorrect assumption. Representative Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9586	Dear colleagues, Tyrelli, even though you gave a lot of incorrect allegations in your presentation, or your grades, I wouldn't talk about them, I'd only talk about one thing. You spoke more about the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic, in your presentation, so I don't know if he's the environment or if that's how you're experiencing him? What you said incorrectly, you used from the context of the evaluation. One of the studies that showed a negative report on environmental impact commented by the Deputy Prime Minister that such reports are very complex, which cost nothing to do for free, I don't believe. I mean, it was literally like that. So no one challenged the expertise just abnormally that there are several studies on one of these same assignments. One's for, one's against. At this point, we are talking about the environment, and we need to be part of Europe because there are also such conflicts in Europe between the environment and the economy, and we need to respect all standards, not attribute either to the Minister or to the Vice-Presidents of the Government some kind of political innuendo.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9587	Time. Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9588	When the free thing became very interesting in Croatia, especially in the case of this government. Mr. Cacic said an esteemed colleague that as soon as something is free, believe me, it's not suspicious. But then we also have Mr. Prime Minister's counsellor, so it should probably be suspicious, which is why she's free. But what you are, you asked today how much it costs, how much it costs for the analysis presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9589	Comrade Vuksic, colleague Vuksic, I will interrupt you for a moment, quote what you have said, you said literally: "The Council of Presidents of the Republic is free of charge."f E thank you very much for your correction, take care, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9590	For free, I'm sorry everyone understood. I think you can correct yours, too, the Kukurik coalition, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9591	When I am chairman, I will correct anyone who makes a mistake about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9592	Okay. I thank you. We'll make up for it. [[Intruder: Time Vukusic.]] We'll make up for it. You asked how much this presented analysis cost? But you forgot about that wing: "That we're not rich enough to pay cheaply, let alone get something, just as professionally as it is, to get free." In Croatia, we have been practicing the wing for a long time: "The more expensive, the better.", it was practiced by almost all governments in Croatia, especially the previous one. But you also know that the fact that there is no free lunch and try to believe as naive as that sounds to the first vice president, the first vice president knows everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9593	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9594	Here, thank you. Oh, I'd just like my colleague to make a statement that's incorrect in my statement. I was talking about the fact that here's the game of the case I come from that unfortunate Labin, and I'm five miles away from that Plomin 3 thermal power plant, so I really think I'm in my 40...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9595	My colleagues, I'm sorry, you're responding to the replica of colleague Vuksic, you cannot correct, you can answer the replica by correcting the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9596	All right, here comes fellow Vuksic. Yes, thank you, Vice President. If you are right, everything has become free with us in Croatia, and it seems really that we must trust the first Deputy Prime Minister and therefore I do not understand why my colleague objectes when he says that much, I mentioned him in my statement. I obviously mentioned it to him that I wanted to start believing. I really want to start believing it's just a question of whether or not he had the grounds to trust him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9597	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. I would ask Deputy Minister Mr. Hrvoje Dokoza to speak in the end. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9598	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and counsel. Here, let me recap everything we heard today. Here I tried to write it down here more or less. It was that you all supported the Study more or less, and that sustainable development is something that is necessary that the Study is unfortunately not on time, but that we will try to make sure that everything mentioned today is included when we are doing a new study. Here's Mr. Sabo listed the Vukovar problem, we'll certainly include it. We'll try to make the study a lot faster, we'll try to get the team out of the agency and make things happen in time. As far as Plomina is concerned, here I have to say that it's not the right time to give an answer, the answer will come when it's over, so it's still a task force. There have been comments on the task force and it would not be professional for me to give answers in the process that is going on. Here, please understand. As far as other things are concerned here again, I thank everyone for the end, and on behalf of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I say that we will try to achieve maximum standards as Mr Komadin, the 3E, must be 3E, must be energy, economically sustainable and environmentally sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9599	Thank you. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when conditions are made. Tomorrow we continue to work on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on State Property Management, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 97. Thank you and I wish us a good result tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-14-0.u9600	Environmental report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Environmental Protection Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008. I'd like to make a statement on this conclusion. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find the conclusion by 124 votes to six abstentions was accepted by most votes.
