ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8789	... Dear representative of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker speaks Roma, no translation.]] It is my special pleasure today to be a representative of this debate on support for the international initiative for the establishment of the 5th World Day of the Roma Language. It is rare to find a proposal in front of the Croatian Parliament, which was supported by all the clubs of MPs. As Roma and as Parliamentarian, I am proud to stand before you and suggest that you support the establishment of the World Roma Day. It is also a great day for the Croatian Parliament, a day that will be recorded in the history of this High House, the highest body of representative democracy in the Republic of Croatia. This is the day when the Republic of Croatia shows by word and deed support to the Roma people, support that is symbolic and essential, support that is to be in Europe and the world to send a clear message that our country is committed to supporting its national minorities, especially the most vulnerable Roma national minority. As an active participant of this process, from its beginning I am particularly pleased that the initiative came from Roma, that the Roma showed themselves and others that they were not and should not be the object but the subject of their future, that they recognized the importance of the Roma language for the preservation of Roma culture and identity. The centuries of wandering from India to Europe, history full of suffering and better, history full of games and songs, history full of tradition and customs, history full of isolation and inequality, history of my Roma people, history of which, through tradition and tradition, the language through centuries of continents and empires we have come to have confirmed the sense of our belonging to the Roma people. To a nation without a country, a people from hundreds of countries, a language that has fallen into many gloves of dialects of ours, influenced by the language of the people we have lived with, but also because of the absence of the institution of the mother country that would preserve it, edit and through education make them universally accepted. Despite all this, the language was preserved and survived, which survived what few languages survived, a language that still struggles for a better future in the 21st century, which has not yet been standardised, yet waiting for its Goethe, Shakespeare, and Tolstoy, but also the language I believe would almost speak Job when he was born. And that is why here today, before you colleagues and fellow MPs, you are before you the distinguished representatives and presidents of the representative bodies and the association of the Roma national minority who are today following this debate from the gallery and before you the respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are following us through the media, today I am here asking you to recognise Roma rights in your Roma language and to establish together the World Day of Roma Language, the days when we will celebrate the Roma language, the days when in the wide public will be spoken about Roma language, the day when scientific and professional discussions on Roma language and culture will be held. I want to brief you on the history of the World Roma Day. The initiative was launched in 2008, the first Roma-Croatian dictionary was published on 5 November 2008 and was recognised as the occasion for the announcement of the 5th World Day of the Roma language. On behalf of the profession, he was presented by Dr Mate Križman, expert in Indo-European linguistics from the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb. This day has been marked every year in Zagreb, and the International Symposium is held to standardise the Roma language. A number of linguists, romologists, journalists and writers who have also supported this initiative have participated in the symposium organised for the World Day of Roma. The topics discussed so far covered the codification, standardisation of the Roma language, the use of Roma language in information technology and the position of the Roma language within the family. On the World Day of Roma Language two prizes for life's work are also awarded, the prize... And the reward... [[You don't understand.]] , named after the greats who began to standardize the Roma language. [[You don't understand.]] The awards have so far been won by more eligible individuals from France, Romania, Serbia and Macedonia. The International Union of Roma, an international Roma organisation aimed at political representation of Roma in the world, also supported the declaration of the World Day of Roma. The initiative was also embraced by numerous Roma associations, prominent members of the Roma national community in the Republic of Croatia, as well as many prominent scientists, prominent individuals from Croatian cultural, public and political life, signing the Charter of Declaration of the 5th World Day of the Roma Language. The celebration of the World Day of Roma is also on the agenda of the Council of Europe when it comes to the most important cultural events and holidays of the Roma community. The Roma language belongs to a group of Indo-European languages, it is one of the Indian languages and this fact testifies to us about the migration of Roma from ancient India. The Roma language contains many words gourmet, kaldera, hunting, abdic, jambaric and others. The Roma language is a language spoken by most Roma in the world, recognised as the official language of Roma at the 1st Roma conference in London in 1971, at the same convention where the Roma flag and Roma anthem of Djelem was established. For the standardisation of Roma language of great importance was the 1990 Roma convention in Warsaw, which adopted the 36-letter alphabet of the Roma language. Then other decisions concerning the Roma language were made from a linguistic aspect. After that, a longer period of stagnation followed, and then the work on standardisation was given a new swing right from Croatia with the launch of an initiative to mark the 2008 World Roma Day. Another big step was taken for the Roma language in Croatia, and this is an agreement with the dean, Mr. Damir Boras on the introduction of objects on Roma language and culture at the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Zagreb, which will begin this autumn. In this way, it will work permanently and quality to preserve Roma language and to sensitize academic and cultural public for Roma language and culture. The recognition of the Roma language is also linked to the exercise of the rights of members of the Roma national minority, which are contained in many documents, domestic and international documents which directly and indirectly establish the right to protection, preservation, improvement of the Roma language is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which defines in Article 15 the right of members of all national minorities to serve freely in their own language, as defined in Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the National Programme and the Roma Action Plan contain measures to preserve the identity and culture of Roma. Article 7 The Constitutional Law on the Rights of the National Minority of the Croatian Assembly established specific rights and freedoms of members of national minorities, including the right to serve in their own language and letter in private, public and official use, education and education in language and letter, as well as access to information in their own language and letter. 10 years ago, a law on education and education in the language and letter of national minorities was passed, which can generally not yet be applied to the Roma national minority because the issue of Roma language is not regulated, unlike other minorities who, based on it, exercise the right to education through several different models. For Croatia, the European Charter on the Regional and Minority Languages of the Council of Europe of 1992, which expresses the need for actions in favour of minority languages and guarantees that these languages will be studied in the countries of the signatories. And finally, important are documents coming from the Roma community itself, such as the Declaration adopted on the 1st Symposium of the World Day of Roma Language in Zagreb in 2009. This declaration draws attention to the long-term neglect of the Roma language, to an unequal position compared to other languages, due to its limitations on the use of within the family and beyond public use, and to the need to implement measures for the development of the Roma language. The Roma language, the vital element of the national and cultural identity of Roma, and therefore the Roma language as well as other languages must be recognised and recognised and concrete actions should be taken to preserve the Roma language. One of these actions is being witnessed today in the Croatian Parliament. I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament support this initiative and also call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other state institutions, media and organisations acting in favour of members of the Roma national minority to support, in accordance with the efforts given, the affirmation of rights of members of the Roma national minority to serve their language in the privacy of their homes, as well as in public media, in educational institutions, as well as in public bodies. This support we are confident will have a positive impact on the acceleration of the Roma language standardisation process, but which needs additional incentives to be published soon. It is especially important now that in a month the Republic of Croatia takes over the presidency of a decade to include Roma, an international forum involving 12 European countries. Thank you to all the clubs, the MPs for supporting this proposal. .../I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8790	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Veljak Kajtazi. Now I'd just like to finalize, I know, I know, Mr Furio Radin on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, but before he comes, I'd like to ask you to welcome the representatives of the Roma community to our gallery. . Thank you. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8791	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's particularly commendable and particularly important this fact, and I'm going to start by reading the board's opinion, that all the party clubs represented here in the House support such an initiative. Such an initiative is important, it is important because it will become international and come from Croatia, it is important because everything that happens with this most vulnerable group because Roma are the most vulnerable minority population and it is important because we have been witnessing in some parts and escalating problems and problems against or in relation to the Roma lately. This is binding, of course, this declaration and this new sensitivity to say so to the Roma is binding, of course, for the Parliament, of course for all citizens of Croatia and it is binding for the Roma who are, of course, an integral part of that integration that is certainly needed in Croatia. We can also become with such declarations where the problem of Roma will actually become a problem solved. The Committee considered that proposal a conclusion as a parent working body. The representative and representative of the Roma national minority in the Croatian Parliament explain the reasons for submitting the proposals except for the rest, pointed out that Roma around the world use 60 dictions, but that the majority still speak in the language of the Chip novels which is 1. In 1971, the World Congress of Roma declared it an official Roma language. Because of the fact that the Roma language is unstandardized, and since they are members of the Roma people without their own state, without their country of origin and living in the world for a reason one can talk about the dangers of this language. Standardisation of the Roma language directly affects the quality of Roma education in mother tongue as well as the exercise of the rights of the Roma national minority whose members want to learn the language of the environment in which they live and at the same time preserve their native language as all minorities. In 2008, the first Roma-Croatian and Croatian-Roma dictionaries were presented to the public in 2008, and experts and prominent ones gathered on the occasion in Zagreb launched an international initiative to announce themselves in honour of the event on November 5th the World Day of the Roma Language. The proposed charter was then signed by a number of scientists, university professors from Croatia and abroad, representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, several dozen Roma associations from the Republic of Croatia and several other European countries, and the initiative was also accepted by the international Roma Union. Given that the initiative for the establishment of the World Day of the Roma Language came from the Croatian representative of the promoters, it was concluded that the proposal was referred to the day when the first Roma-Croatian and Croatian-Roma dictionary was promoted, meaning that the date is closely linked to Croatia, and that the success of this initiative is needed to support the wider communities. It is therefore proposed to the Croatian Parliament to join this initiative and to strengthen it by its conclusion. In this way, it would give an incentive and an example to all relevant and interested Croatian institutions and organisations as well as other national parliaments and international organisations to support the efforts of Roma community members to preserve their cultural and national identity at last. The committee members supported the adoption of the proposed conclusion, expressing the view that it is good for one of these initiatives, which has European and world significance, to come from the Republic of Croatia. They stressed that exactly the Republic of Croatia and its Constitution and laws which specialise in the National Programme for Roma and the Decade of Action for Roma inclusion 2005. – 2015 and a series of social policy measures, health measures, employment policy, housing problems, education policy, status problem resolution and significant financial separation both in the state budget and in the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government supports the affirmation of the Roma national minority by helping its members to integrate on an equal footing into Croatian society and to maintain their cultural and national identity to full extent. And let's hope there's more to the future. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously, underlining, unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions on support for the International Initiative for the Establishment of the 5th November as the World Day of the Roma Language in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8792	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first word is Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8793	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. They say how many languages you speak you're worth. And each language represents one treasure. Let me also conclude that as a linguist by profession. Because every language has special Semantic, syntaxal solutions that can only enrich you, and I believe that all my colleagues and colleagues who know one foreign language know and appreciate it. So each language has some special solutions and each language is one special treasure. That is the case with the Roma language which is the language of a national minority who does not have its own country, but does not diminish the value of that language. Let me also thank our colleague Kajtazi, who contributed to the linguistic scene in Croatia, and especially as regards the Roma language, writing the first Croatian-Roma, or Roma-Croatian dictionary. My colleague, it's a great honor. As a linguist, I'm very pleased, and I'd even prefer you to sit with us in the assembly benches. But let me look back, as far as language is concerned, and some of the problems I've seen myself, so when we talk about the Roma language, working at school. In fact, the problems of Roma children are that most often Roma children do not speak Croatian when they come to school. And that's a very big problem because we all know from our own experience moving to school is one of the scariest situations in a child's previous life. So environmental change is in a completely new situation, around the child are all unknown people etc. So, with all this stress, Roma children have extra stress, which is a language obstacle. This is what I saw myself teaching Roma children as well as Croatian children. So I taught them a foreign language, an English language, and now imagine when you interpret a foreign language in a foreign language. I really believe it's an extremely stressful experience. And for that, as in many of my discussions, I point out that education is the key to better tomorrow for both the Roma national minority and the Croats in general. So education and Roma children should pay special attention to becoming language written and in Croatian before they come to school, and it is precisely to make it easier for them to integrate into the class into Croatian society in general and in this way they will have no resistance to school, because you believe that it is terribly stressful when you go to school every day and listen to three four schools now that someone is telling you something and you don't know what. For me personally as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, as a Croatian representative of his people in this high home, it is an extraordinary honor that the initiative of establishment this day comes from Croatia, especially when we consider that the Roma in Croatia live for more than 6 centuries. I'm also pleased to join my colleague, Katasia, that this proposal, therefore, comes from all the club representatives, so we have a consensus on this. The language is also a key element of the national and cultural identity of every nation, thus protecting, or raising, the level of the Roma language day, which we also help the Roma national minority, who, as counterpart Radin said, is one of the most vulnerable minorities in Croatia and beyond, I also welcome it. We protect their national identity, therefore the Roma national minority, but I believe that we are enriching ourselves, because as I always said our differences should not separate us but should be our common wealth. For all the reasons I have stated right in my debate, I am happy to support this declaration that we are going to bring and invite all my colleagues and colleagues to join me in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8794	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8795	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. Let me especially welcome our guests today representatives and representatives of the Roma organisations in the Republic of Croatia, the presidents and representatives of the Roma National Minority Council. It is a great day for all of us, I want to say that I am happy and proud because we have been given the opportunity to talk in the Croatian Assembly about an extremely important topic. And just because we're talking about it in the Croatian Parliament, I'm happy and proud. I'm proud of it because we talk about it, we talk about Roma language, the right of a nation to live in its own language, the right of the people to build an identity with their own language. We are talking in the month in which 169 years ends since Ivan Kukuljevic Saxinski first spoke in Croatian. Therefore, Croatians, citizens of Croatia and representatives of the Croatian Parliament can probably speak with a special feeling about this issue because they themselves know how painful it was to fight for the right to their own language throughout the centuries and how skill and perseverance, love, knowledge and will the Croats should have preserved their own language, which they could not speak in their own Parliament for centuries, and then, in order to avoid imposing foreign language, they spoke Latin. I am happy and proud of this because we are talking about this in the year in which the Republic of Croatia takes over the presidency for a decade of Roma inclusion, an important international project in which the Republic of Croatia has actively participated so far. And thanks to the high awareness of people who have sat in Parliament and government and so far have brought a number of very important quality programming, strategic documents that have defined that the Roma community's problems will solve at all levels, and the problems faced by the Roma community are multiple, they concern both housing, employment, health care and a lot of other things, but above all education. Because better education increases the chances of all of us, better education increases the possibility of involvement in social processes, in decision-making processes and finals in the processes in which we make decisions about ourselves, about ourselves, therefore, when we decide our future. Talking about Roma education, not realizing how important this issue of preserving their national language would be, in fact, only half of it. That is why this initiative, which started in Zagreb, must make us particularly proud of the direction to strengthen all Roma organizations, to make the Roma language appear in those Roma families that have lost it in the meantime because of historical circumstances, because of the fate of the Roma people, but also because of the fact that it is one of the rare peoples in the world who is already practically the birth of their members and members, so bilingual, because they speak the language of the country in which they live and speak the language of their ancestors. But since the language is not standardised, i.e. that the standardisation process is only at the beginning, many difficulties are that the Roma language is recognized, used, unified and that it will be the medium that will enable national identification and survival wherever Roma live in the world. Roma live in many countries without having their own mother tongues and speak many languages, among other things speaking languages they consider as their own, such as our Roma Bajashi, Roma Bajashi who live in other countries but most Roma speak the language of novelichip and several dialects, a whole series of so-called dictionaries. And this action, which started in Zagreb, in honor of the fact that it was here in 2008 on 5 November and presented to the public the first Croatian-Romanian and Roma-Croatian dictionary should make us particularly proud and because the author of this dictionary sits here among us as a national representative of his and many other national minorities. There's a lot of reasons to be proud. And the fact that all clubs have stood behind this initiative after three years of how much this initiative in this House speaks for itself, says that it has matured and that we have matured, that we are more responsible than we were yesterday and that we will help the Roma in Croatia but also the Roma around the world to have good friends in the fight to preserve and standardise their language and among all of us who live in Croatia. It is a great thing that scientific and professional, high school institutions in Croatia from the Croatian Academy, Matica hrvatska, Faculty of Philosophy and all other relevant addresses have been involved in their own way, and that every year they support what they are doing and how they are dealing with the maintenance of an international symposium that has been happening in Zagreb on November 5th of every year, when Zagreb becomes a intersection and meeting a large number of Roma experts, but also not Roma experts, indolologists, romologists, all those who deal with Roma culture and literature. I was fortunate and especially honored to have chaired the Organising Committee of the Symposium since 2008. Thank you to all the Roma who wanted me to help on this trip as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, thank them for this recognition and for this support and confidence in the hope that from now on we will all be a little more sensitive about this issue and that we will understand how important it is for them and that we will help them wherever and whenever we can. Congratulations to all clubs for showing a high level of unity. Congratulations, colleagues and colleagues, in advance, on supporting this initiative because it has far-reaching consequences. It will be a platform from which other national parliaments, other national and regional parliaments will be invited to stand at the highest level behind this issue and the need to help Roma to standardise their language. This is what we who live in Croatia, we who speak Croatian must and can understand. Because the standardisation of Croatian language that lasts more than 150 years is not yet completed and will probably not be completed as long as the language is alive. To all of you fellow Members and colleagues, I congratulate Roma friends today because I think we are witnessing an important day in the history of the Roma national minority in Croatia and I show once again on behalf of my colleagues from the Croatian People's Party – liberal Democrats open support for all initiatives that will contribute to better, better quality, to be more involved and to be equal with all of us who live in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8796	Thank you. The word has a representative and vice president of the Croatian Parliament Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8797	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of our guests, I warmly welcome you. I know a lot of you. I think I can say that I was really your friend, that I am and that I am staying your friend because I have been Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament for many years as a member of the executive authority and as a representative of the executive authority, which has been my special honor and great pleasure and President of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the promotion of Roma rights, the exercise of their rights and the implementation of two major and important documents, so decades for the Roma, but also the National Programme for Roma in the Republic of Croatia. I want to thank my colleagues, Katazia, for bringing us all together, which has united us all, and it shows that together we can all, regardless of our differences, regardless of the political party's membership around one important and long-term, or initiative that will certainly be an important step forward, especially in putting mosaics, I believe all of us in protecting and promoting the rights of minorities in the Republic of Croatia, but especially the most sensitive and this is the Roma National Minority. We show this joint initiative how to respect above all the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the fundamental values that are recorded in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And what is extremely important is what we have finally built into the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, so that we are especially willing to respect others in political life, respect differences, respect others and otherwise, and advocate not only their protection but the protection and promotion of their rights. I can say that as president of the Committee for the Promotion of Roma Rights in the Republic of Croatia, I was a participant in many major projects that we have achieved together. And here I want to thank everyone who has participated, especially in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as well as the Ministry of Civil Engineering and many others, because we have set ourselves three goals through the National Programme for Roma but also through the achievement of decades for Roma which we must continue to support. So, above all, protection certainly, training Roma children is one of the most important tasks, housing, health care and employment. As for the education of Roma children, significant progress has been made in a few years. I believe and I'm sure that's how it's gonna go. So we tripled the number of children enrolled in preschool institutions, doubled the number of children attending primary schools. What seems particularly important to me and I want the Government of the Republic of Croatia to continue on this path to always find a way to do so at all times. So we've launched scholarship insurance projects for high school students, Roma children, members of the Roma national minority but also students. And it seems particularly important to me, especially in this whole project, to encourage the education of girls and girls in terms of tradition and culture. And I think that's where some significant shifts were made. We have also made important projects and I believe that our friends can very well confirm it in housing. So, the first time I visited the Roma settlement in Lower Dubrava, I faced an extremely difficult situation, I think I can say that today it was really greatly improved so the living conditions for the apartment were catastrophic. And this project needs ladies and gentlemen to move on. I don't think there's an almost Roma settlement that I haven't personally visited, I've met truly wonderful and brave people and people who have had a vision and strength to fight daily hardships. Moreover, a major and important project that we must all represent together, Mr. President, is the employment of Roma. There was such a project through which it was implemented through the Ministry of Economy and I believe that this project will continue, because certainly employment is one of the preconditions for improving the general living conditions for each member of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia. And finally, I am sure that this gathering about the project is another gathering of all of us around the project called the preservation and tradition, identity, culture and expansion of that space in the protection of every member of the national minority in the Republic of Croatia, especially the most sensitive, which is Roma. Thank you for this opportunity to be all together, and I want us all to be even more successful in what I believe we all want in this assembly, and that is to ensure everyone's decent life especially for those who are particularly sensitive and who are threatened. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8798	Thank you, too. Ms. Representative Dunja Spoljar. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8799	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There are different languages spoken by one man. They can be called motherly, traditional, foreign, or first, second, third - language according to how and when they are taught and how speakers serve them. A small number of Croatian residents are native to another language. Roma language, mother tongue is the Roma in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8800	Please, just a minute. I'm asking MPs and MPs right here in the left block to allow their colleague to speak, so we can hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8801	Roma and school attendance are different and more significant than the one-lingual speakers of the Roma school are bilingual teaching means that the subjects of national culture do not exist. In the school system, there is no teacher of Roma or those who would know the Roma language. In addition to one school beginner in the Roma language published by one Roma association, and as such is not in official use, there is nothing else. Roma children of school age teach in Croatian together with other children, but often do not finish. In addition, Roma children come from the middle whose basic feature is oral culture, even when there is written production on novels Chip newspapers, magazines and books are poorly available to Roma children in Croatia. The result is a lack of knowledge of concepts such as books, notebooks, pens, but also unfortunately respected colleagues and colleagues who do not know the useful concepts of the notebook, book or pen. The curicular settings of Croatian schools mean that by the time the Roma children leave for school, as well as Croatia's adopted certain social norms of the majority community knowledge about the world and Croatian language at the level of the average Croatian high school, and often the basics of reading and writing. It is not unusual, therefore, that when Roma children arrive at school, they are not used to a new situation and environment that is not natural to them, and their language is not understood enough to seem lost and become restless and careless. Communication problems are one of the major causes of school failure of children or students. Children rarely fully unprepared come to school benches from socially depressed environments where there is severe poverty, unemployment and sometimes alcoholism. The language they speak is maternal but not understood by everyone who works at school. In this way there are major educational and educational problems for both students and teachers, as well as for all those who are employed in schools with Roma populations. In the ideal world, all Roma children should adopt Croatian language to this level before going to school through organised quality preschool programs so that they can follow the course. For now, only a small number of Roma children leave preschools or kindergartens and some playgrounds where they usually learn to name some things or appearances. Teachers lack systematic education on teaching Croatian as not mother tongue, and Roma is not known enough about language and culture. By raising our hands and accepting this proposal to support the international initiative on the establishment of the 5th World Roma Day, we will clearly show in the Croatian Parliament that we care about respecting minorities and their tradition, that we care that Roma education is as accessible and pleasant as all other school students in Croatia and that we care about the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8802	Thank you, too. And finally the representative, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8803	Thank you, Mr. President. I also welcome all of you from various Roma associations, I welcome you as citizens of Croatia. Here I would like to thank our colleague, Mr. Veljak Kajtazi, who has united me to say so all the club representatives and all the clubs are the promoters of this conclusion, so I'm going to make a little joke. Maybe it's right now that Keatazi should then be elected Prime Minister or President of the Republic because he's reconciled uncompromisingly. It's just a little joke, but maybe it would be better. "This is a small step for man, and a great step for humanity," Neil Armstrong said in 1969 when he stepped on his foot and I really remember because I am a little older than that event, but this is indeed a great day for Croatia, for all political parties, MPs, citizens regardless of nationality, religion and native language. This conclusion was supported by all clubs in the Croatian Parliament as well as enough to talk about the level of consciousness and definition I would say all political parties to democracy, and this may be an opportunity for the entire initiative so that the position and national minorities, in particular Roma, their standard of life, their rights to education, employment, health, full integration into society, become a reality, not a dead letter on paper. This day, not to offend the importance of this conclusion, this day would be far greater for Croatian democracy if this High House, the Holy House of Croatian Democracy and your Parliament, if the President of the Government and your Government, if the President of the Republic of Croatia and your president, were not to collect cheap political points or points, but for all those who laid their lives on the sacred altar of the country, on behalf of those whose bones are not even aware of where, on behalf of all Croatian defenders, those werewolf columns, those girls from the Vukovar column in tears, but also in the name of the truth, when this Assembly and all the clubs of the representatives of the new High-Serbs, Chetsts, and the old ideas of the new Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, but the old Chetnik that Vukovar was Serbian and that Vukovar would remain. No, he was never Serbian, he was always Croatian, and he'll stay that way. Just as Croatia does not have its border on Karlovac-Virovitica, these borders on the Danube are partly on the Sava, etc., etc. So what we are looking for, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, and you have the power to do in the Rules of Procedure, therefore not wanting to collect these cheap political points, we want this House to draw the same conclusion that will condemn these great Serbian Chetnic statements by the new Chetnik Duke or the new Serbian president and make this day a real holiday of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. This is the least we can do for both the Roma and members of Serbian nationality, for all national minorities, for all Croatians and Croats, as well as for all Croatian citizens. Because if we had to shut up since '45. '90s. We don't have to shut up in 2012 after all the victims of the Homeland War, because we are the ones who want Europe, we are the ones who want co-existence. We're not the ones who want a new war, new divisions and new blood. The shame of the Serbian president is great, and more shame would be if Croatia kept silent in such statements both this Parliament and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. And the one who thinks someone's collecting cheap political points from this one might agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-25-0.u8804	I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a conclusion will be made clear as well as the other points we discussed during the week. Finally, the proposal for a conclusion on support for the International Initiative on the establishment of the World Roma Language Day on 5 November. The debate is closed. In accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The proposal for a conclusion on support for the International Initiative on the establishment of the 5th November World Day of the Roma language What is this conclusion? Against? Restraint? . Thank you. [[Applause.]] I find that the conclusion was adopted unanimously with 122 votes. Congratulations to all of us in this hall. . Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Here's just a few more notices, please. So today we finish our work. We continue our work on 30 May of this year at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. And I remind you that you received an invitation to the Croatian Parliament's Ceremony Academy for the 20th anniversary of the recognition and reception of the Republic of Croatia to the UN on Tuesday, May 29th, so the day before the plenary session begins, but I believe there will be plenty of MPs here as we have already agreed to meet committees on Mondays and Tuesdays so I expect Tuesdays to be especially alive here. I welcome you all to the end. Thank you.
