ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12398	My colleagues and fellow MPs good morning! We'll get back to work. We will discuss - Proposal for a law on fun and special machines for play, first reading, P.Z. No. 114. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and you received reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance, the esteemed Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12399	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Act of Fun and Special Machines on the game. The existing legislation which defines this area is the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government. In that law, the provisions which... fun games where you would actually take over this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic provision of the law is to divide automatics into fun and special machines for the game, fun machines on which no winnings can be achieved, cameras with video games, poolers, pinballers, table football and the like. And to special machines so-called. AVP machines that are limed... and limited maximum profit at which limited profit can be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Fun machines that... This law, automatic means that it contains these video games that I was saying can be used by legal and physical persons in entertainment clubs, catering facilities and other public spaces with a prominent record mark of the Ministry of Finance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Legally tailoring the game to special automatics is given only to those companies that have to meet the legal requirements, and the company must have a basic capital of 250,000 kuna and a guarantee of a bank that depends on the number of machines it has in use from 100000 to 500000 kuna. The use of special machines is permitted only on the basis of the authorisation issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. Special machines may be placed in catering facilities and entertainment clubs with a limit on the number of machines which cannot be placed less than two but may be maximum, the editor must have at least 25 slots. Special machines for the game must be certified, technically correct, flatten, and in use only if they have a prominent record mark from the Ministry of Finance. The responsibility of the host is also prescribed for the obligation to amend the ban on playing minors and the possibility of temporary banning the work of a catering facility where special machines are found contrary to the law. The methods and conditions of paying taxes are defined 100 kuna per month, 1200 kuna per year for fun machines, which means the income of local self-government and 600 kuna for special machines. We've been doing some revenue projections here. What's important here is to say where there were certain dilemmas in the adoption of this law whether this part is defined by the Law on Fun and Special Games or by the part to be transferred to the Law on Games on Happiness. We're definitely opening up here right now to hear your opinion, to see in what direction if there's an interest, so there can also be further changes to this law. We are aware that there is a problem let's say illegal use of these appliances in catering facilities. The goal was, in fact, primarily why it went by this law to make this law revenue from these games in order to actually be the income of local self-government, means that we were transferring it for gambling would be the income of the state budget. So, this part of us actually wanted to introduce control of this part, and we definitely decided that you could discuss here whether it's okay or not, and we were mostly accepting certain solutions of certain European countries, so I'm opening up here, I'd like to hear your opinions, so we're going to see if there's going to be a need to change certain provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12400	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourers – the party of work will speak to the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12401	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Labour Club will support this bill because it definitely needs to introduce order in this area. I think it is a general impression in Croatia that there is everything and that this area is not even very well regulated. The promoter, i.e. the Ministry of Finance in a text explaining this need, stated that the consequences that will arise under this law I would rather say that perhaps the effects that will arise from this law among other things, i.e. in the first place are the increases in the income of local administration and self-government. I believe that it will really come to this, although I have the impression that the very assessment of the amounts that you're talking about is quite ominous, casual, that you're not quite convinced of what you wrote. But I find it a little odd and an estimate that, let's say, income at the 2013/2014 annual level. It's growing by almost 100%. That's a little optimistic, but God forbid it's good for both you and us and everyone together. It further clarifies the clear definition and arrangement of the entertainment game market as a model of solutions in other European countries. That's absolutely commendable. However, I have no doubt that you know this, and I am sure that you are aware that this requires far greater resources to make complete solutions from the European Union countries especially those that have developed this part has been implemented, allegedly cannot claim that it is true but there is, among other things, a direct link to Internet technology or to the Tax Administration and counters on these particular devices. This all needs to be controlled by the IRS workers, or let's say tax inspectors. I'm not sure, first of all, that given how many of these machines there are, do we even have so many people who could do it in a good way, and on the other hand, honestly, I'm really skeptical about whether these people know that technology at all? A team before it's about this information technology progressing from day to day. There are daily changes, and I'm not so sure that there's an existing fit no matter how much, I don't want to say anything negative about them, but the fact is that these are new technologies and that they need people who follow it regularly. In one part it is prescribed that compulsory return or minimum return must be 80%. Now I have to be honest with you, 80 percent in what time? Is it 80% in one day? Is 80% in one accounting unit, which is it? If only the boss knows it's 80% in a month... I didn't understand, but be later, no problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, that's, say, us reading who we're layers it's definitely left unclear. It raises my suspicions immediately if 80% of it in a month the boss knows it's the last day he'll just do it for himself. I must admit that I was surprised by the assumption that the introduction of this law expects new employment in Croatia, among other things, to produce fun and special machines. If I've looked well, though I've never done it in my life or been attracted to it, but I think the moss are those machines that are foreign to production. So I'm not really sure that there can be any production, only if it's not intended to create a kind of Las Vegas from Croatia, so it's probably justifiable. I'd like to get back to financial effects a little bit more. Either I got something wrong, misread or undercut the error in Table 2 last page – simulation of revenue from special automatics for the first and second year of work the monthly fee for 2013 and 2014 is the same amount of 7 200 kuna. Am I reading something wrong or, since there's a double number of automatics? Five thousand and ten thousand machines, and seven hundred kunas in both years. ... Okay, I immediately noted that it's possible that it's a wrong reading, but good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Another detail fell into my eyes about this text is under 18 years old. It is mentioned once, literally in one sentence in Article 21 and on two occasions in the infringement provisions, the penalty is estimated to be between 50 and 200 thousand kuna for the legal person and from 10 thousand to 50 thousand for the responsible person. We can agree that these may not be small amounts, perhaps they are, depending on people who may have far greater amounts with these deals, but I don't suggest, but just so you know, maybe it's not a bad idea to say the object in which it happens, finds, determines the fact that under 18 years of age are on these appliances, it's primarily catering facilities near schools, that they're issued a ban on work and on that basic activity, and not just on this. Because then it'll have some effect. I mean, honestly, I'm not really sure this punishment alone is going to get some results. And the laboratory – although these laboratories will be subject to a sublegal act regulated by pure suggestion in them, in this sublegal act should state that employees in these laboratories can not be owners or organizers, or organizers, or those games in order not to actually happen to them, that it is true, that it would not have happened that exactly from there is where all the worst that can happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12402	It is the SDP club and the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club will support the proposal of the Law on Fun and Special Machines for the game. The question is, so we're at the SDP club, and here I think we share the opinion of every citizen that these things, how games, this gambling on these machines hasn't been regulated before. We keep in the SDP club that this bill not only wants the government to regulate this so far, but it also sends a clear message that these are actually machines, entertainment machines, and not for profit. So far, we must admit, this issue was regulated only by the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government and only in its two articles. So it was poorly controlled and consequently we think that there was a big and tax invasion, very little income for local self-government units. So, as in most countries, as Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac specifically pointed out, we want to regulate it in a way that is regulated in many countries in Europe, and here I am adding to the US. Just a note when I mention there's no one there to get a concession on who was the only day in prison. So all this time since the '90s, the question has been unregulated. So let's remember '91, '92. For years, there was almost no coffee shop that didn't have a poker machine. How'd the story go? So it was gambling, it wasn't often known whose machines it was, the winnings were up at the bar. In 1993, there was a large raid where a large number of these machines were seized, but nothing spectacular happened. In 1996, there was a big action, "A poker action", called that. The police also took away a large number of appliances, but this evil, I would also say, speaking for the club, and I repeat that I think we share the opinion of a large number of citizens. And that was the data from the police themselves, that it was a way of garnering money and laundering money. Let's just remember, so ten years ago, maybe something more, or somewhere spectacular and murder. That's when the media ransacked the inscriptions on the murder of the king of poker machines. So with this kingdom, we want this law to end, and we want that one black kingdom to end and things to be settled. As has already been pointed out by the deputy minister, however, the main feature of this bill and what it wants to be arranged for. So, to regulate the division into two types of automatics, that includes fun machines, which include video games, simulator, pinball, dart, basketball, boxer, billiard, table football and special machines on which a player can achieve a pre-limited maximum profit. I think it's particularly important, it's going to be, and it's going to have to be so and especially prominent, so these players, and all the potential players, to give them notice, so there's no fraud, exactly how much the maximum profit can be. They are regulated, of course, both spatial and technical conditions, as has already been pointed out, and on special machines special authorisation based on the approval of the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, Commercial Companies based in the Republic of Croatia, registered for the performance of games for special machines. So we're introducing order and this black market where there were blurry jobs, where money was created, dirty money that was then laundered in a way that puts it into some legal activity. So here, by supporting this bill, we at the SDP club share an opinion with all those who have pointed out this on individual committees, and here we share that opinion with the Labour Club. I believe that many colleagues from any party have also pointed out. We also need to take care of youth rearing, and it certainly wouldn't be good if such machines, which will have automatics and get approval for them, whether it's fun or special for those winning machines, weren't anywhere near school. Here I believe that by the time the final proposal is made, the applicants will, in particular, take note of such an objection and such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12404	Thank you. It's the HSU club and the esteemed representative, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12405	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The establishment of banned games in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. This law lays down implementing rules, rules on the organisation of fun games and rules on the conditions of technical regularity. Those provisions of the law regulate the subject of taxation, mandatory tax payments, the amount of the monthly tax, and the conditions to be met by the taxpayer for obtaining the monthly supervisory sticker, and the provision governing that the tax on machines for entertainment games is the income of the county, according to the place where the automatic is placed. And this, even the law hasn't changed since 2001, and in the last ten years there's been significant technological developments, so a new special law on fun and special machines for the game is being proposed. The proposed law regulates the system, types and conditions of play-making on fun and special machines, the process of obtaining and withdrawing authorisation for game-making, the manner and conditions of paying taxes on fun and special slot machines, the supervision of game-making and criminal provisions in the event of non-compliance with the law. Fun machines like their own name speak for fun, without being able to win money, things, services or rights. Machines are put into operation by means of forged money, chips or by payment, which are mainly pinballs, darts, basketball, billiards and table football. The result of the game depends on the knowledge, skills and skills of the player. Game editor on fun machines is a legal or natural person who is registered for such an activity. Special machines shall be considered an electronic game machine which is also put into operation by means of forged money or bills, and shall be programmised. On these machines the player can, with a pre-limited bet, achieve a pre-limited maximum profit that is paid in cash immediately after the game is finished. The result of the game may depend on the case or any other uncertain event. The game director on special machines is a company registered for such activity. And we're wondering why we wouldn't have any craftsmen on this occasion. In addition to other regulations governing basic issues, technical conditions are very important in the use of special machines in such a way as to prescribe the provision that machines must be technically correct and that there is no possibility of any fraud. A certificate of technical correctness of the machine shall be issued by a legal person authorised to carry out the technical examination. The machine had to be certified and no older than a year from the day of manufacture. Also defined are the methods and conditions of paying the automatic taxes of 100 kuna per entertainment apparatus or 600 kuna for a special machine. In particular, it is an important provision on the supervision and control of the implementation of this law by the tax administration, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, because no law is effective without control. The authorised employees of the tax administration shall have the right of supervision for all operations related to the accounting and operation of the machine, the cash account and other operations related to such operations. What is expected and what is sought by passing this law? An increase in the income of local administrations and self-government as well as the introduction of order on the fun games market is expected as a model of existing solutions in other European countries. The law wants to eliminate illegal entertainment machines, so-called. poker in catering facilities which do not control the state and do not charge taxes, thus representing unfair competition. The law can act on new employment as well as on production and two types of machines in the Republic of Croatia. Law enforcement does not require funding from the state budget but by consistent application it can contribute to increasing the county budget, depending on how much the machine will be set up in a given county. It is a good provision of Article 10, which guarantees the payment of profits to players on special machines, and in accordance with the provisions of the General Tax Code. A trading company is required to have a bank guarantee ranging from 10 to 500 thousand kuna depending on the number of automatics. So, without a bank guarantee, the game editor on special machines can at no time begin to operate this activity. Nor will any company that is in bankruptcy or liquidation and which does not fulfil its obligation to pay the claims made will be granted such an activity because any such request will be rejected. Any company authorised by the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration shall have at all times in use at least 25 machines. The law stipulates that the maximum gain a player can make in this game can be at most one in relation to two hundred. Automatics must be so constructed or adjusted that they return at least 80% of all the stakes in slot games to players in the form of winnings. A ban on playing on special machines has a person under the age of 18. Exception from tax payments are billiards and darts because they are considered sporting disciplines but provided they have a prominent mark of the Croatian Billiard Federation or Croatian dart alliance in their visible place. It is unclear why the state is benefiting from more tax in favour of these two alliances that use fun machines especially because there is no such preference in any case when the state prescribes stamps. Alliances and associations shall be financed through membership, sponsorship and funding from urban or county budgets if there is a public interest in this. The issue of conflict of interest is raised if it can be said of, for example, one of the two alliances mentioned where the president of the alliance, the owner of the company that manufactures fun machines, and the main sponsor of the alliance, is one and the same person. It is known that in times of crisis traffic is growing in lotteries, bookshops, all gambling games. And pensioners often because of low pensions play games of good luck on that people's "A lot of hope for a little bit of money". After this law is passed, the expansion will affect the games on special machines. These alliances were transparent and at which price they issued those stamps or could open up space for possible manipulations or unfair competition towards the state. In order to prevent this, it might be more appropriate to free all fun machines from paying taxes because in such a strong competition they can hardly survive. It is good that this debate on this law is conducted in two readings, so there is plenty of time to make a better solution because so far the entertainment game market has not been adequately arranged. Although it is not about the high incomes that are seen from the simulation of the estimated revenues, it is extremely important that in Croatia fun games are arranged by choice for other European countries and increased inspection supervision on the market which has not yet been available. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the HSU will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12406	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. This proposal of the Act on Fun and Special Machines for the HDZ Game will not support it. We know that the law is proposed by the Tax Administration, which is responsible for granting approval and supervision of game-making, fun and award-winning games for the collection and processing of data determined and charged with taxes, for proposing changes in tax policy, tax and other rules, for preparing draft proposals for laws and other regulations, and that this law proposes to improve the tax system and more effective tax collection. Yet we feel that such a law can do us more harm than good. So far, the organisation of entertainment games in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated by the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, which I would like to note for the speaker is often referred to as increasing the income of local self-government units, and in fact it is only the county budget. So let me correct my colleagues who used to talk on the subject. This law hasn't changed since 2001. It is true that for the past 10 years there has been significant technological developments and that it has been regulated in the legislation of other European countries. The most important change compared to the current legal solution is regulation of new activities, making games on special machines for playing where players have the ability to win and in money. And it is proposed that such machines be placed in entertainment clubs and in catering facilities. Although it is proposed and constantly stresses that the maximum profit is limited in advance by this law, unlike the legislation of many other European countries to which the caller is not prescribed a maximum stake. So, for example. In Italy, a maximum of 2 euros can be paid per game and a 100-euro prize can be paid, in Denmark with 0.70 euros, and in Belgium the maximum profit is 6.25 euros. Under this law of ours, there is no maximum role required. Only in article 17 of the bill reads: "The maximum stake to participate in an individual game on a special machine and the maximum gain a player can make in this game can be at a maximum of 1:200". So, for example. Only in one game can be expected to win 200 thousand kuna if you invest a thousand kuna. The Government of the Republic of Croatia as the proposer of this law cites the expectation of a significant increase in income from local administrations and self-government. It is true that with this kind of law, we may be able to get some kuna more into the county budget, but we need to know what price for that income we have to pay as a society. The Kuna more in the county budget would be out of the pockets of those unfortunate, unstable citizens of our citizens who, in this universality, lose their jobs and no income, with little alcohol, and from the adoption of this law and in their mostly small hospitality resorts, can reach for the possibility of fast and easy profit. And so the last kuna from their household or even a little longer in debt, they're going to get into that special machine in the hope that they're going to get lucky right now and get 200 times as much as invested. How much more difficult this will lead to family situations, how many new gambling addicts will be created. These machines will most often be found in those small catering facilities, in their dark corners where they will be hidden from the eyes of the public, mostly in rural areas or the edges of cities. They'll be sheltered with closed windows so we don't see them actually destroying their family and themselves, and believe me, it's not our interest. It's not the interest of our society. How many young people with one drink will try to get 200 times as much as they currently have in their pocket. Yesterday we listen to the finance minister that we have an increase in unpaid bills, the liquidity has increased by a billion, the budget gaps are being patched over our citizens' wallet. Yesterday, excise duties are rising again, and the draftr of this bill, in his projections on this basis, predicts an increase in revenue, which is even worse than the increase in the number of automatics by more than 60%. According to that projection, it would be more so-called. Special machines that make profits in money and things like that now have all the fun machines. Do we perhaps want to tell the citizens by this law when there is no bread at least let there be games? It is interesting that the reason for the adoption of this law also states the applicant of the expected new employment in this activity. It is possible that if more psychologists, marriage counselors, educators, and similar ones are required to adopt the law. And finally, I wonder if the promoters of the Government and the Ministry knew why or who they are proposing such a law when it says that the editor who receives the approval must be a company, so he must not be a craftsman or a natural person, and must put at least 25 machines in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This law certainly does not come in the interest of society because it will make many unhappy, increase the number of gambling addicts, poison many young people, lead to new personal and family bankruptcy, increase the number of divorces and so on and therefore the HDZ club cannot support such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12408	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12409	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. In my debate on this law, I will not look back on the world-wide problems of this law, but only look back at its characteristics and possibilities for improvement. The fact is, whether we want it or not, that Croatia is full of bookies, Croatia has a lot of these appliances, Croatia is full of stations to buy gold, Croatia is full of everything and everything. We didn't ban any of it last year, we're not defending these either. My debate will go into trying to constructively give an opinion on what I think might be improved in this law, and when it comes to worldly issues and the Law on artificial insemination, then we will be very serious about the world's issues. So the fact is that a group of people, quite a large group of people, well organized, have been systematically raising money in this country for many years now, illegally across Croatia through these appliances, that this is more or less known to everyone, clearly and that nothing has been happening for years. There were some stamps, they weren't, lots of holes in the law that a lot of people go through, there and there someone pays the fine, but a good number of people have made good money, almost black money on those machines throughout our beautiful past years, and it's really time to try to put under surveillance, at least under state control the course of that money. The second question is "worldly," whether we're for something or not. I personally have no need or gambled, but I also have no objection to the fact that under controlled conditions under the prescribed criteria, adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia are doing the same, as they do in all other European countries or in the United States where this has already reached the scales of incredible phenomena. Worried for sure. So this law defines two basic concepts, one is fun machines and the other is special machines. Fun machines are those machines where no winnings are made, so billiards, pinballs, darts, hockey, table football, video games, simulators. For these fun machines it is prescribed as so far as it was necessary to have a mandatory stamp and that the monthly price paid for it is 100 kuna. No concession criteria are prescribed and so on and that's fine. They should be certified, armored and have dials. What I'd ask myself is those fun machines, where these are, for example, those car parks that have 10, 15 in one place. How are they? What's with the merry-go-rounds? How do you solve the question of those who transfer these fun games to fairs or whores or forgiveness or whatever you want from one place to another. I didn't notice that these machines, those devices that these people carry in any way are stamps on them. So, that's about the fun machines. The second question is these special machines. It's another group, so it's a device that deals with this law. These special machines are primarily poker machines, but also all other devices on which a certain gain is made. There's a legislator who's actually paid a lot more attention because that's what they are, those are the ones where the biggest profits are made. It is foreseen to pay a fee of 600 kuna per month on that machine. They are scheduled to be certified, sealed, to grant concessions on a five-year period of application. Now, about those machines. What are the criteria for issuing a licence? Therefore, the underlying capital of the company requesting the request to obtain authorisation for the production of games on these special machines if there are 25 to 50 such slots, should have a share capital of EUR 250000 and EUR 100000 of the bank guarantee. And then, there are still three groups as the amount of guarantees increases. But now let me simplify and give an example. Someone with 30 machines, a poker machine will need to have 50,000 euros, 250,000 kunas of core capital and 100,000 kunas of bank guarantee to do so. And someone who has 300 machines, so 10 times more will have to have 100,000 euros to isolate. So for a tenfold number of these devices, they're only going to need double the amount of money. Therefore, 300 poker machines across the Republic of Croatia will need 250,000 kunas of core capital and 500,000 kunas of deposited deposit as a bank guarantee. I'm not sure there might have been another category that could have been introduced, so we can work it out a little bit more. Because you shouldn't think that from the current indicators that might have said it was a fragmented market, so that most of these people have an increasing number of appliances. If they are comfortable very quickly, you will see that some of them will have 2,000 such appliances because, of course, they will be more favourable and then we will see whose apparatus they are. It should not be doubted that the properties shown above these appliances are very often fictitious and that these apparatus actually belong to some other, third or fifth groups or persons. Oh, yeah, that's it. So consider, then, that someone, or a state, is not very easy on these very criteria. The second question that I would ask myself is when it comes to Article 18(3). Now, that's one way I'd like to say a little Croatian story right now. In the conditions required of the authorisation, the use of these apparatus is therefore required, of course, that all documents it attaches be in Croatian, to be in the original or in the publicly certified file, so as to be required to provide instructions for handling, copy of the guarantee or technical documentation on the automatic. So I'm not sure how long it takes to be in a public record, here. Now the manual, some handling instructions for technical devices have 100, 150 pages. I don't know. It's also a specificity. You have to pay 100 kuna or 600 kuna a month, and then when you pay for it, you come for the stamps and then I tell you if now you pay 10 kuna stamp or pay the Ministry of Finance. It's like that and pay it in a special way, with a special payment. The stamp has its production price of kuna or two. I don't know if he can have that much. What does 10 kuna mean? It's the typical of our so-called Croatian wetland. You're gonna pay for something, but you're gonna pay extra for it. It is one of the Croatian administrative impudences that is present. Because, of course, whoever pays that stamp for the use of that machine doesn't even know how to split that money. For him, the personification of the state is everything and county and city and state. He doesn't care who takes it. Somebody's taking it from him. Now he doesn't know that he's going to receive a grant for the office, and these 10 kunas are going to be taken by the Ministry of Finance. But I'm sure he'll wonder why he pays 600 kuna a month. And then when I come for the stamp, I still have to pay some 10 kunas to someone. Also mentioned by the HDZ predecessor, the issue of a maximum individual role. I think it would be rational to prescribe a simple amount of maximum individual role and that's not some big problem. It is also stated that on these poker machines and on these special appliances 80% return will take place, but it is not prescribed in which number of turns or in which number of performances on that apparatus are prescribed by some legislation. Since these furniture appliances are electronically not a big problem setting up that machine to make 80% return, so to return 80% back to players through 2 million plays, which will actually guarantee a great profit. Therefore, it can also be done, if it is prescribed through a number of games of 100,000, I don't know 200000, it can also be very easy to adjust and monitor on these devices. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to support this bill in our first reading. These are our suggestions for a second reading, and we're talking about the world's themes of another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12410	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12411	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the HNS Club, we support, of course, the adoption of laws that will introduce or should introduce order into the financial obligations of those involved in this kind of activity, means entertainment appliances and special game machines. But we have certain doubts in the section relating to the reasoning of the text where the consequences of this law will be discussed. And here he says, firstly, a significant increase in local administration and self-government revenues is expected. I don't know if we have or if we can hear them from the promoters who are expected to increase their income. In fact, according to the information we have somewhere now, some 7 million kuna tax revenue is currently available, and I was expected to read some tenfolding of these revenues as well. So, 70 million kunas if we know that the concentration of this kind of fun and gambling apparatus is to translate them into large cities, above all it means in the City of Zagreb, the assumption is that half of that income will be reunited in Zagreb, larger cities in the Republic of Zagreb. Which means that exactly those local self-governments that may be the most vulnerable to income will not have any special effects from this law. That's our first question. Does that money mean anything to save our local self-government? We agree with the second finding that there is a need to clearly define and regulate the entertainment game market as a model of solutions in other European countries. In that part, I think we could use good examples, especially in limiting roles and winnings in games on these machines. So to limit how much one game plays and limit what win is. We agree with the third finding, which means the elimination of illegal so-called illegals. fun poker machines in catering facilities. However, I think it depends more on the organisation and training and number of our inspection services than it does on the very declarative legal solution. The expected new employment in this activity is also something that I am not sure that we can safely argue that there will be more employment in this activity, only perhaps in the companies that are engaged in the rental because the accommodation of appliances in the catering facilities by two appliances and jobs will mainly carry out the meaning of the staff already working in those facilities. And to encourage the production of fun and special machines in the Republic of Croatia, I personally don't have, and we at the HNS don't have any knowledge that there are any larger companies involved. What we mean is, we support the introduction of order into this space. However, I think that by the next reading it should not be missed that we are consulting the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in the context of these consequences of laws that will arise from the adoption of this law because we cannot close our eyes before there may be social consequences by introducing this law. What's gonna happen when either of us gives our student 20 kuna for a marenda, and instead of going to the marenda, he spends it in the first neighboring cafe at his college, by his college. So he's not gonna eat the marenda. It may mean losing and getting zero kuna, or not winning the game, but it can also win 2,000 kuna. And then we wonder what he'll do with those 2,000 kunas and whether his parents will know what's going on with that kid and that money that he can potentially do with that role. I think that until the next reading we should consult, but carefully and analytically through the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which will have consequences in the social sense of passing such a law. But I say HNS supports the introduction of order into the space of this activity, and I think we will fix this law with common forces and this trail, which we have all spoken and colleagues from the SDP and colleagues from HDZ until the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12412	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one called Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. So first of all, let me support the adoption of this law because I believe that by passing this law, order has been introduced into an area where so far there has been a significant mess. Unfortunately, I think we were all aware of the problems of various poker machines and similar that were almost in every cafe. That is why this law should certainly be supported. However, this should not prevent us from pointing to some things that may need to be changed, so I would take the lead. In my opinion, there is no need to carry out activities as provided for in the Special Automatics Act exclusively restricts legal persons. I think that, in my opinion, we have justified, in an excellent institute of mandatory giving of a bank guarantee, that is to say, natural persons, therefore craftsmen and merchants, are reported to carry out this activity, of course, on the condition that they deliver special guarantees on the basis of which we will know that they can carry out their obligations provided for by this law. Accordingly, I do not think that it may be necessary then to provide for provisions concerning minimum capital, but it is sufficient to leave only provisions on bank guarantees which, in such a situation, may also need to be raised from 100,000 to some higher level. Furthermore, here are my colleagues talking, said counterpart Anticevic, what we should consider is the possibility of limiting the place where such machines can be placed in a way to determine that they cannot be within 100 metres of school and other educational institutions. Such an instrument is not a party to our legal system, for example, in catering facilities we have a provision that the catering facilities in the installation, i.e. in moving buildings must be at least 100 meters away from those facilities located in fixed buildings. So when we've prescribed something like that for catering facilities then I don't see an obstacle, to limit the setting of these machines to a circle that's at least 100 meters away from school or anyone else, some other educational institution, a student home or something like that. Also, on the other hand, on another particular instrument of addiction of cigarettes, I would suggest that, necessarily, be it in the space where such machines are located, whether on the machines themselves, it must point out that gambling, or that gambling, is dangerous, or that they can cause addiction. I don't think a single sign like that would bother a single gambling director. And if at least one person can turn away from gambling, I think we've done a lot. And finally, here's another thing, I think on these machines for the entire duration of the game it should be as it is said in English as one disorder. That the return is only 80%, so people know that there are no unlimited gains, that they're all aware all the time, while they're playing, while they've invested their 10, 50 or 100 kunas in these famous poker machines, that they won't get back the wealth but that they can only get a limited amount of money in advance. Here, you wouldn't last any longer, anyway, it's about one generally good law, a law that needs to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12414	Thank you, too. The next one for the debate, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, and he did not, she gave up. New club, wrong. Miss Sumrak, here are your colleagues. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my wish, to point to the addiction of this law in reality, which research has shown, but also, unfortunately, life. Dependence on the cube is a serious disease to be treated, and betting and gambling in Croatia unfortunately took epidemic proportions. To repay debts, a gambling addict will rarely commit thefts, property delinquents and muggings. The countries, some European Union countries, in particular those leading social policy, socially sensitive policies such as Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands, are making significant efforts to reduce the number of casinos. Because it was almost impossible to control the money laundering and the crime involved in their work. The results of research conducted in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka were carried out by experts from the Faculty of Rehabilitation and Education and the Faculty of Philosophy for Psychology in the number of 1950 subjects. And it's high school students from these cities that generally talk about more significant young people's involvement in gambling. At least 83% of these adolescents once played a game of luck, whether it was lotterys, lottery tickets, sports bookies, automatic clubs or cards. High school kids usually bet in sports bookies, even 19% of them, the rest goes to machines in nearby cafes or casinos. The third most interesting game is also, on virtual games on the Internet. Young people gamble more intensely than girls and are more prone to risky gambling games and gambling problems. The survey says that 19% of them, in Zagreb now speak, means 19% or 400 of them regularly go to automatics and gamble and visit sports bookies. So what you should say, they have one unique philosophy, that form, that addiction, that gambling is a life philosophy, and it says, "I have, not work.". In what way do we actually pass laws like this, which are also stimulated by the number of these gambling machines, as well as machines for 60%. I simply cannot vote for any such law, until state inspectors are introduced into legal casinos, who will closely monitor who enters these casinos, to the extent that one and the same examination is maintained. But we can all see in our lives that underage children are parents, most often fathers introduce them to bookshops or cafes, and they gamble regularly, but they follow results and thus introduce children into a criminal world. Because we have to say that casinos and laundry are money. So, about, well, I'd say the hygiene of life, and especially the education of young people, that a law like this and all the laws relating to casinos are simply unacceptable. Because young people are listed, here we see by advertising, and by means of the media, Croatian radio, radio, newspapers anywhere talking about that being acceptable, not behavior. We need to say clearly that this is absolutely unacceptable behavior and that we need strict control, that we need and control clearly what the colleague said, control how close some of these poker machines are, and everything else near schools, not just high school schools, but primary schools. Because classy from these studies that already visitors to different poker machines, but also casinos and betting books students of 11 years of age, means it's an elementary school and of course we don't want to encourage it, and we don't want to give them a chance to have time to learn at all. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12416	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade twilight, I think you've made it very clear and nice to point out the problem of addiction, the creation of addiction. It's an addiction, therefore, to gambling and team games, it's one of the hardest and biggest ones that very often ends in suicide with ruined families. And here in this law today, many times this economic side is being talked about, how many units of local and regional self-government are going to get. First you take those 300 million kunas that these amendments to the Income Tax Act take, now they get here. He'll lose, he'll lose himself for sure, so the lost families, the ruined families and these youngsters, these kids, who we see that the age limit for alcoholism in these young people is moving all the way down and down and this whole environment if this possibility is provided for him to create such a difficult addiction we'll lose forever far, far more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12418	Thank you, too. We don't have an answer. Next debate, Josip Bencic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12419	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I welcome the Deputy Minister with an associate, an honorary colleague and colleague. I'll support the law in first reading because I think it's necessary and it's good. It is necessary because we are all aware that so far there has been no law that would have been particularly concerned with the law on gambling but that is not it. I also think it's good that income goes to local self-government units because as far as I understand it, it only goes to the county, so maybe it wouldn't be bad for a part of the income to be distributed to cities and municipalities not only to go to the county. I've asked myself why this law wasn't up until now. I can't answer that. Here's a colleague on my left, perhaps in which to discuss the tensions why he hasn't been there yet, and he should have been necessary. By reading this law, I can say that it is comprehensive, and I am particularly intrigued by the fact that there are as many as eight articles of breaking provisions and that is good. Believe it or not, that's good. Good, because I know from my personal experience that some entrepreneurs first turn the law and read breaking provisions to see what's forbidden, what they can do that they can't try to find there, and it's good that in that sense the law is comprehensive. On the Committee on Finance, I must say, dear colleague Shucker has intrigued me with his question, he has actually raised the issue of addiction. Will the young ones be addicted? Is this law going to encourage let's say in some sense addiction? I was particularly interested in that because I have two sons, one has 18, one is 21 years old. And I've been thinking about what's going to happen when my son, like my colleague Shucker said, goes into the bar no, and he sees two machines and a bar there. Now what? To choose between two addictions or between addictions to games of chance. I think this addiction problem is for another story. And here I am personally when I thought about it and thank you for that question you've really intrigued me with that question, I think it's primarily a home-grown thing that everything comes from it. I've personally never played any games of chance, I've never entered the bookies, I can say I've never seen that and my sons, I don't know, maybe go but I haven't noticed. I'm saying it might be a topic for some other law or some other story. And also here in one part we only mentioned the technical part of these appliances. Let's be true, once the appliances were more mechanical and less electronic. Now it's gone into another extreme and I agree with all those who say we have to pay special attention to the inspector's training, that they don't just come physically to see if the stamp, if he's well-set, whether all the conditions are met, but that he also enters that software section to see let's say well-hit. It means there's that possibility that he might recognize the setup, yes or no. But probably that's what the Ministry of Finance says from my experience knows, I have great confidence in inspectors, they're otherwise professional and qualified for their work. It's just like a little note. And I'd like to look back on the winnings a little bit more. I think we should limit the winnings, I think it's mandatory to limit it because someone here mentioned a £200,000 figure, now I don't know we can handle it until I don't know what numbers. It should be restricted, and I think about the whole addiction story this might even reduce the intensity of that story in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12420	Thank you, too. We have one replica on your exhibit, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said your colleague Bencic had a problem with addiction for another story. Well incorrectly, well this is very important and great, I could have followed a correction, but this is a very important and big problem, and it's enormously important and it's for everyday story. And I'm glad your son doesn't have a tendency but that's a very relative question if the question is a trigger dear colleague. If he drinks one glass or any other when that trigger goes off. Thank God that your family condition is such that your son or someone to live under such circumstances, but there are many other families who have great problems and difficulties and many children unfortunately go into addiction and in that sense this attitude reflects a single attitude on your left by these values. And easier drugs say there's easy drugs or this or anything. Every addiction is immeasurably dangerous for every family for young people and destroys them, and in this way we need to think daily every moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12422	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of my colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12423	Dear colleague, I've only apostrophed come now you wouldn't be again about your children not maybe this isn't the time or place but like that problem whether they're going to be addicts or not I'm saying. I agree with you I'm a concerned parent but let's not make a problem out of this law now, that the only problem in this law is making addiction, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12424	Thank you. Mr Grubisic came forward for the debate next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The people, the citizens, the Croatian people in my say I might not say excessive despair in a situation where more than 300 thousand people are unemployed in an economic situation where the main activities and the main sources of the purchase of plastic packaging, bottles, and then the sale of gold house gold are also games of chance, as my late mother said, that this expression was used for such games so mampara. Croatia has turned into a somewhat larger Las Vegas than the city of Las Vegas itself with numerous casinos, bookshops, poker machines, catering facilities, entertainment parks, etc. That's exactly how she turned out. Although poker machines and what is called exactly right in this legislative proposal, special machines or special devices would say Croatian, so special devices they are slowly at sunset, they are slowly demode. So they come out of fashion and there are far fewer people who today are drinking beer, two and playing poker machines because they're far more sophisticated mom-money from the west, from the advanced world they came to us in the form of casino openings, in the form of bookies, so one hope of fast profit. It is true, then, that with this one debate that would really require a detailed analysis of psychological pedagogues in connection with this evil, such as evil and drugs. It is also a kind of addiction that young people are subject to, above all, young people, but also others, almost without exception. And once you enter that poker machine, and once one profit is possible, it becomes an addiction, it really becomes an addiction. And I know a lot of young people and the older ones who beat up there all day all over some lunches that I don't even know how to play it, how to get it, how to get lost because I never cared about it. But this area where we can't go any other way now, so we can't go beyond the world and the time where it's already established in our country, then at least we need to introduce order, such order. So here's what I'm looking at, and I'm not going to say it's an attempt, but a legal proposal to introduce some order among these companies that arrange through special devices of this kind for citizens and therefore to experience, in fact, accidents, and very rarely happiness. All of us know and the data is from such companies, but also from the west that only 1/3, that's still very good, if 1/3 of the money you pay can therefore get out. You don't know who's going to go down. And if, as my colleague Djurovic said, who studied it well, then it depends on the number of twists and these technical details, but never anyone who organises it can lose it. They lose those who dance, only those who dance and do so in the crowd, not to look at the individual. Only 1/3 of the money that gets in, which is used eventually comes out. A ratio of 1:200 is a ratio that is not a limited bet, the maximum bet, and then really the question is how much is the maximum profit, if that's a ratio of 1:200. I think that ratio relative to many European countries is quite high, especially when the stakes are not limited, so when the stakes are not limited. A million and 200 million are ratios or a thousand kunas and 200 thousand kunas. Well, that's exactly what my mom's hot word is when she tells you that a thousand kuna or a kuna can get 200, depends on how much anyone looks at it and how much money they can put into that device. So that's exactly what attracts, which Mom, especially I tell people who are in trouble, and today they're full of Croatia, people who are desperate for unemployment, etc. So what's prescribed in terms of core capital where he is always 250,000 kuna, regardless of the number of automatics, but a guarantee rather than a guarantee, but a bank guarantee, I would say so Croatian, so the bank's guarantee is increasing depending on the number of these devices or whatever the machine says. Now, if a bank guarantee is also paid, whether it is paid on the bank's tax guarantee. We've put the banks back into some kind of profit. Could any other guarantee be, private, own guarantee, deposit, rather than just the bank's guarantee? So then the bank's guarantee increases in proportion to the number of devices, again I'm talking intentional device, from 100 grand to 200, 300 and 500 thousand or half million kuna, and always the guarantee of the bank. So, the bank's back in play and the banks are back in play, and we know yesterday we discussed the billing notice, so I'm sure they charge well and charge fat and their bail. So again we're little and they get through this new law a little smudged and the banks that they have little to earn. E when it comes to local and local and regional self-government, given that these devices, the machines are slowly in the sunset, and we know that no one in Croatia has a monopoly but we know, we won't mention names, while there are three or four large players, so large players with a large number of machines and we know what that refers to. And that ratio or disproportionate that my colleague Djurovic was talking about, which is exactly the guarantee of a bank that on 30 machines is 100 thousand kuna, and on 300 machines is only 500 thousand kuna. So you increase the number of machines by ten times, and the guarantee only increases by five times, so that's disproportionate. Well, since those big players we know are good, we're not going to name them, I think they can come out with banks and a much bigger guarantee. Now, the question was this for thinking, is this going to happen in the case of such a drastic increase in the bank's guarantee, whether it will encourage the depletion of this one call economic activity and the reduction of the number of automatics, and then the reduction of income, therefore, of tax revenues, i.e. the income of local or regional self-government. So one question to think about, even though I don't think it's going to come to that. Unfortunately, the citizens don't see and there's no way out, there's still no light at the end of the tunnel, so I'm still going to say this game of luck is going to take some time. It is also an interesting fact that for the first time, responsibility for, responsibility or prohibition to play for persons under 18 is introduced on these special machines. We know that these first fun parts are mostly for young people, children, etc. but it is said that responsibility for the implementation of this legal provision, hence the prohibition of access to machines, to devices under 18 years of age, is responsible for the exercise of the physical person carrying out the catering activity Now, [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] Here's two sentences. [[Invader Batinić: Bring the end.]] How will this be done, what will be inspection surveillance and where the ministry sees the possibilities of new employment through the installation of these devices I don't really see, I'm skeptical by...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12426	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First call from Zeljko Sabo, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12427	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. Except that it's all the wide talk and everything they've said before, and you're right, but there's something you don't have the right to do. You do not have the right to be involved in large financial resources, and you have the right to do so by financial means in terms of this vice as we all call it where young people go in one way or another, regardless of how they go in one direction where many families get hurt because of what we are doing today and what we're talking about. But there is also a solution to how in some ways everything legalizes what is happening, and we cannot prevent it. But try to act in some way and give part of ourselves to prevent those side effects. With this law, we have the opportunity to use our local community revenue to ensure that we have all that preventive action and through this preventive action we will now have certain financial resources that in some way at least I in the town of Vukovar will use precisely to point to all the negativeities in our society, both for the cube or entertainment as it is called.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12428	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12429	You've replaced some things, you haven't replicated them at all. I wasn't even talking about Vukovar. In the end, the town of Vukovar has nothing to do with it, it's the county's income. Therefore, you will not share anything unfortunately. I'd like you to share something in Vukovar, but you won't share anything. And that it's better to prevent it than to treat it anyway we both agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12430	Thank you. Another replica, Drazen Djurovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12431	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When it comes to special machines for the game, it is specified that two special slots can be set. I don't know if you representatives Grubisic understand what that definition means. Whether or not I can be set up by two. Does that mean two, at least two, just two, two, two, about two? What exactly? Is it possible that the one who wrote that language understands it in that way, so what it means is that I can be set up by two? They can, they have to? That might be a little vague. And if, when it comes to gambling habits, if the maximum bet is limited to, for example, 5 kunas, as here's the case, then the maximum possible gain will be 1,000 kunas and I mean there won't be any kind of profit I don't know. And certainly then those who are calling for a whorehouse won't be so worried, and even those who have some strong gambling passions won't be too lax because there will be thousands of bookies at their disposal that have been opened all over our beautiful and it hasn't bothered us too much or we've lambled too much about it, but we've let many of our citizens go bankrupt in these bookies over the past years. And we didn't do anything. We've had numerous and numerous affairs and settings and people who ended up in treatment in psychiatric institutions and numerous irregularities both in sports and sports around sports and precisely because of these bookies. And in that case, we weren't too worried about that phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12432	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12433	A colleague of Đurović, in Article 15. You were talking about number two. Well, in Bosnia, they say sometimes both three. So that's how we can define both three. And as for that one-to-200 ratio, I think this bill should define either the maximum stake or the maximum profit. And since that scale and connection, then it's easy to explain and easily enforce the law. So define either the maximum stake or the maximum profit. And that crime is related to this kind of activity that we call it that's the story of the 1990s in Croatia, and in the world from both earlier and the bookies and the poker machines and everything else so we know about murders, suicides and a lot of things that are related, therefore, to blackness that is related to this kind of activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12434	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, I'd like to talk a little bit differently about this law than my colleague so far, and I'd like to start with Article 4. And what's not controversial about this law is bringing order into fun machines. So they're darts, billiards, etc. And it's undeniable that's where it's supposed to be if you can seduce the order. However, when we talk about it and then we must have something in mind, which is that Croatia is not uniformly developed, that Croatian citizens do not have equal purchasing power. And that a dart or billiard set up somewhere near a bigger city where I say income is bigger in the population and in some rural environment where the less logical thing is that there will be no traffic on it so big. So it's questionable whether all these machines should be in the same category. But it's a matter of technique, it's a matter of assessment, it's something to support. However, what is really controversial in this law and what we all need to imagine, which is special machines. So, definitely talking to me here one way or another if you're playing something and you know you're going to get something for it, whether it's money or something else in natural form, it's gambling. Now look, it's no problem if you limit it in a certain space where it's known to be gambling, but there's nothing else, but if you put one or two of those machines in a bar you wanted or didn't want and you pushed the kids under the nose of a vice. And we gave him the opportunity to intrigue him and start playing. And there's plenty of fellow doctors here to ask around, so they'll see how many treatment addicts there are on the dice, and how many drug addicts are on the opiates, and you'll see, unfortunately, this one has more. We have one negative experience, and it's poker machines from the '90s. And that's what we, as Parliamentarians, as the people whom the people have chosen to represent here, need to think about. We simply cannot close our eyes that when a young man enters a cafe he has two machines and knows that he can get 100 or 200 kuna on that machine, and he has 5 or 10 kuna in his pocket and sees someone get 200 kuna. Tomorrow you won't be intrigued by him. And that's what we should be thinking about. So, it's not a questionable automatic club where we know there's 30 machines that go inside some cube, but it's a dispute in the cafes. And that's what we need to talk about. So no one's against making order is just a question of whether we want to put it in a bar where young people come every day. And the other thing, let's not run away from it, so we've had a provision in the law for years on banning alcohols younger than that and so on. Who controls it at night when it starts? That's the same story you have with these special machines. And that's something we need to think about, and I personally don't think that such machines in the catering facilities need them. I mean it myself. It's my personal attitude, and it doesn't matter at home or at home, like this. When the kids go out, that's how it is. If we want to develop and even gamble as part of it, the same thing we can't escape is that it's part of a tourist offer. You look at our casinos in Istria, near the Istrian border and you will see that on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays the people who come from Italy gamble in Croatia are full. That should be legalized. After all, you also have an item in the budget, revenue from gambling, where the annual state budget is being pooled with special funds somewhere around 100 million kuna. Most of these funds go to finance sports, to finance addiction, NGOs, etc. So that's what's organized and what can be controlled. But when you don't have something organized, when you put it in a space where you clearly didn't even define if the owner of that coffee shop or the restaurant rents that machine how will they solve each other's relationships? Since he's not gonna own the machine, the inspector comes to him in control and controls his cash register. He typed in the register his daily catering traffic, and how he would have typed this space for an automatic that wasn't his, and yet he didn't solve it with any lease agreement. So, a series of open questions and I repeat, we all need to ask ourselves, are we in favor of such machines being a place in catering facilities? So that's what this is about. If we talk about the income of units of local self-government colleagues and colleagues, let us not fool ourselves and let us not scrutinise a proposal that now the government imposes on trade unions to abolish past work. If past work decreases from 0.5 to 0.3% and you take the average age of employees in state and public services and when you take and when you add health care total for public and public services, 28 billion gross wages are paid and when you reduce it by 4%, you will reach a billion and 120 million, and on that account 25% of income tax and you will see that only from that basis will the unit of local self-government remain over 250,300 million revenue and we are talking about an increase in income of 10 million kuna. It's hypocritical. But there's one elemental question here whether or not we, not only, so we can even talk about the worldview, take the view that some gambling machines are where they belong, but they can't be in the catering facilities. Another thing, also colleagues and colleagues have us from different backgrounds, it doesn't matter whether you live in Zagreb or near Zagreb, Split and Rijeka or live in a village 20, 30 km from any city to have any fun. You won't if you have a machine like that at the time you'll start banging at it because you simply don't have any other parties. And that's something truth and fact that we can't get away from and that we should think equally of both HDZ and SDP and HDSSB and independent club and laborists should all think alike. So that's what's controversial. No one's against seducing order. It's just a question of whether or not we're gonna let some things go on a little door that we won't be able to control tomorrow. Why? Your colleagues and colleagues are all in contact with entrepreneurs. When you look at only article 10, you take at this moment how many entrepreneurs in Croatia can at this time single out a million and a half, two kunas, and how many entrepreneurs in Croatia can give their 200, 300 thousand kunas to give him a guarantee that he can guarantee some profits. At this point when people complain about missing 200, 300 thousand kunas to pay for something so they can do their job. So we just act like we don't live in Croatia the way it is, like we don't live in Europe the way the crisis shakes. So article 10 except for some is practically not applicable in Croatia. And to finish, look at what's been talked about so much that HDZ's indifference there will be recognised that indifference has increased by 3 billion. And why is that? Well, because they didn't recognize the problem in time, they didn't recognize that the problem of indifference is somewhere else, not where they were talking. It's the same story with this law. It is not a matter of whether a stamp has been issued or not, and it is not a problem whether it was controlled or not, but whether it is something that pleases someone. But I repeat, we are drawing on the possibility of great evil. Above all, young Croats and Croats, who are unfortunately Croatian citizens, would not have called me if I hadn't said someone, who are unfortunately so exposed to large vices. That's why when I talk about this law, my colleagues and colleagues, I think we need to dismember it first and foremost in Article 4, I think it's Article 4, which we really want to do. And if we're here to clear this up about special machines, then I don't think it's a problem for all clubs to support this law. But the key problem is Article 2, paragraph 4, which is these special machines in catering facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12436	Thank you. We have 2, 4, 6, 8 replicas. The first one came from a colleague, Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12437	Thank you. A fellow Shuker would normally be against stimulating any form of addiction, and the cube is one of the forms of addiction and it would be good for some of the doctors who have this data to say how much they are treated with this kind of addiction. But you speak as if so far it was perfectly arranged, and there was only the Law on local administration that regulated it in a very weighty way. Turns out it was neatly arranged. Now that it's created, when the whole law is passed, which should regulate these things, you're talking like it's ruining some ideal situation. It's like these addictions are the legacy of this government that's only been six months, not yours that's been the last period in eight years, not to mention earlier. It's not for anyone, not for you, not for us, not for anyone to stimulate gambling, but I must warn of one species when it comes to special appliances and our hypocritical relationship with our society, according to addiction at all. So every day, turn on the TV, turn on, or now that these games have been broadcasts from the European championship. Well, you know what the law is in Croatia, one drink, right? That's advertising. It's the law, it's a food item, according to the laws that were passed, when they were passed. Declared, so, if you advertise another drink then it's illegal, if you advertise a third drink, then it's the law, but it's what you would say is a condition of happiness, etc. So it's doubtful how we generally treated addiction, and I think alcoholism is still the most widespread addiction and it includes the most layers of this society, far more than a cube.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12438	Thanks, buddy. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12439	Well, I think, so I don't think there's anyone who's got bad intentions and they're trying to sort things out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12440	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12441	Thank you very much. I should now sublime the start of my colleague Jurovic's debate and the end and then probably find myself somewhere in the middle. Nor did I defend what was so far, nor did I attack what is proposed by this law. But this is simply an area, and so can a colleague from the Ministry of Finance who has long dealt with this area, this is an area that simply evolves from year to year. And you, if you want to have partial control in this area, there's no one in the whole world. You know it well, if the cube were what it is, then basically every year we'd have to change the laws. But here, one elemental thing is being set up, which I think is, and I'm glad there are so many replicas that we need to discuss, and these are the special machines in the catering facilities. I think that's the slowest thing, this whole thing is pure technique and practically copying what other countries have. With that, I continue to argue that as far as darts and these poolers are concerned, you should consider that compensation in some less developed environments is less than in clubs in more developed, simply because of the economic strength of those who play it. So that's my misunderstanding. I have my doubts, as far as special machines are concerned, tried to elaborate. So I'm stating the facts as they are, without the intention of saying and God forbid to say that something was ideal. I'll just tell you my colleague Jurovic for one area, they're bookies. Until two, three years ago, everyone thought everything was brilliantly arranged and so on. And then all of a sudden there's Internet betting and live betting. And that complete system that you've been working on to seduce him into order, it's falling into your water, is this far more interesting? You bet practically on something that will be in the next 5 or 10 minutes. And you have to change the system again and it takes you a long time to get people who control it and educate it to pray to control it, because you need to know those who prepare it are far more educated than those who control them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12442	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you've very clearly touched the question that I've been asking about during this whole debate, which I insist on. Namely, the problem of addiction. There shouldn't be any special expert here to get a man's conclusion. So that when he comes to a place where he's even got his machine in his hand, so a few of those drinks that his colleague Jurjević's about to drink, and when he starts with that hand-to-hand gig, it's definitely a further bait. But I have to say one thing, the mechanism of addiction is the same or similar in all these addictions, so tobacco, alcohol, drugs, etc. And it's very simple, and if it's even more expensive now, if it gets stronger, then the way to that addiction is stronger and more guaranteed, you understand? I agree with you for saying that rural, rural areas are particularly endangered. There children don't have, all in all environments, the possibility that they can get out, that they have the opportunity to play this kind of sport, or that kind of sport, etc. but they go to that bar and then he pulls out and there's another machine. If we add to this, even more difficult economic opportunities in the country, the situation in agriculture is catastrophic, the support is gone, the money is gone, the village is going into a very difficult state. In these circumstances, therefore, those children who are in an unequal position, they come into an even more difficult position and if they develop addiction, you know what it leads to. I'm seriously worried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12444	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12445	Thank you very much, Comrade Stipe. So there's one thing that there's no data, so I've invited fellow doctors who are here with us in the assembly to take that data and look at what happened to the poker machines. And how unfortunately people came from the battlefield to empty out, spent their full salary, unfortunately ended up later and in treatment. So that's something that's behind us. This is something that, if we change some things in law, we can prevent. And that's why I repeat again Article 2(4) is the key to this law, whether it stays that way or not. However, when I talk about addiction, I fear that our government has not been affected by the dependence on tax increases and the reduction of labour rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12446	Thank you. Darko Milinović. Here you go, pal, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12447	Thank you very much. As fellow Shuker said, no one is against the regulation of this part of the game, but each usually begins with the first step. This undoubtedly reminds me of what we have often been, which has often been a struggle of different and world-wide horizons and opinions on the decriminalisation of easy drugs for which we have advocated and advocated in the pre-election activities of the Kukuriku coalition. But every addiction begins with the first step. And it seems to me that from this law, it somehow crystallizes the thinking that this law, not to regulate this area in a good way, but even encourages games or this law as it is called the Law of Fun and Special Devices of Happiness. It can become a law on entertainment and special appliances, not for luck, but for misfortune, very easily through this regulation. Also, the revenues of local administrations and self-government based, as counterpart Shuker said, will not be greater than its harmfulness under this law. If we take a kind of addiction like smoking through excise duties, it seems to me that the state budget accounts for about 3.5 billion kunas through excise duties on cigarettes. And to the treatment of addiction or disease resulting from it, it spends a health budget of about 7 billion kunas, so at a minus 3.5 billion kuna. And don't forget that today in Europe, too, there is expansion and this dependence that we have in the EU the expansion of polyclinics and clinics dealing with the treatment of addiction to these games.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12448	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12449	Thank you very much. So you pulled between the parallel between cigarettes and revenues in the state budget and the damage these cigarettes cause. However, this is one area that is very difficult to regulate. When someone tells you that a machine has to pay off to say 80 percent of what's paid is at the end of the day, at the end of the week, at the end of the month, on one shift. And the other thing, what does 80% mean? That 80% of the bosses can pay themselves 40% so electronics is all-powerful, and you can do whatever you want with it today. But what's crucial is that when young people come to the bar for coffee or something like that, read the paper, talk to them, they're simply offered something. Now if we agree here that this is an addiction, then if we are offering addiction to young people, that's where the difference was ours and the decriminalization of easy drugs. We simply feel that we have our own view that if someone gets their hands on something to make it easier for him to be dependent on something rather than harder to do so. It's the same with these machines. And another thing when we say that Croatian companies will produce these appliances again we have one bad experience from previous years, which is the procurement of machines from the 1990s and Croatian lottery one big international financial dispute that has not yet been completed and which weighs several dozen million euros. So there are a series of questions that I simply didn't want to open here because I just think they're technical, and they need to be discussed technically, but given that someone firmly defends that these special machines are something that should be in Croatian cafes and Croatian restaurants, then it simply needs to open the story a little bit wider. I'm still claiming that in the automatic clubs and clubs where the gambling is, yes, after all, it's an activity, but to mix the catering activity with this. And let's not forget that because of the expansion of the explosion, I just know that my time has expired here's another sentence and a large number of cafes unfortunately at this point over 60% of the cafe simply combines the end with the end and the question of what they're willing to do just so they can survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12450	Thank you. Ivan Grubisic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12451	There is an old Greek saying that there are more important laws in the city than walls around the city. That is why I believe that parliamentarians should be responsible for the adoption of new regulations and new laws that will guarantee a happier and better life in Croatia. We are responsible for the future of Croatian peoples and citizens of Croatia. It seems to me that there's a mental circuit in us that's more modern that's better. It may be fashionable but in a way of thinking the more modern and modern it does not mean that it is also morally better. So these gambling games, cubes, addictions are very devastating especially for the young generation. We are responsible for young people because they are exposed to very boldness and I am afraid of a very organized way of dealing with certain tasks of the same structure that the police might discover. They only change ways but always hit the right thing that is modern to bring young people into the cube, alcohol to everything that will make it impossible for them to break down in Croatia and collapse and extinction. One assessment says, and one statistic surely claims that 50% is born less in Croatia than 20 years ago, and one estimate says that out of 50% of the less born, even 50% of the born will not be biological parents. So it's a very dangerous game to draw young people to addiction and ruin a nation. Therefore, he should be very careful in making some decisions with a legal provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12452	Thank you. Next line, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12453	Thank you very much. Here's my esteemed colleague and colleagues. This debate encouraged me to go back a little 25 years, and I remember, since I've traveled through these European cities a lot. When I first saw two people holding hands in one restaurant, then they started kissing, I thought I was living in a country where it would never be. And here we are. We're trying to legalize it, and so are gambling. And today, this law that we're passing no matter what we have organized companies that deal exclusively with happiness, and here there have been words especially in border towns, but really that today we here and this government are once again passing one law to legalize and automatics that will be at the reach of every man who comes at 18, 20 years old that in a cafe can and drink that can be intrigued for games of chance and go to casinos because that's really how we want to say addiction. This is about everything I've said before, and there's addiction to alcohol, and there's an additional addiction to gambling, and what kind of message do we send to a young man? We send such a message that we simply offer him what will be harmful to him in life that will not benefit him or benefit him. But here we are in the 21st century in order to probably be even more modern, even better this government is passing another law that is at the expense of young people and we're sending them the wrong message and we're certainly taking them in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12454	Thank you. Next replica Ante Kulušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12455	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker absolutely agrees with your discussion of machines, gambling, I think it's much more dangerous appliances in cafes that it's much more dangerous than casinos. I mean, if we want our kids well, we'll never let that happen. I'll remember back in the '90s in Dalmatia, we've got cafes like that where the game went down and where it was at the time of the machine. There was a lot more traffic for those two, three machines that were more than for playing the pen. In Sibenik, unfortunately, there were also people who committed suicide as much as they lost money on that tiny, tiny cube. And the tragedy will be for our children, for our future if we allow these appliances to be fortunate in cafes. I think it's gonna be bad luck machines, sad-family machines, because all of them, as Mr. Shucker said, when he sees that he can, that the machine gives him 80% and that he has to win, someone like he has to win, and he always gets the boss, and the poor guy gets his pocket because he usually plays poor people on those machines in the cafes. I'm absolutely into legalizing casinos so let's go gamble on whoever has the money, but here we're just forcing people and children to throw money into machines because they think they're gonna get something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12456	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12457	Thank you very much. A colleague, Kulušić, in fact, you have raised another topic a little deeper than I was saying, and that is the way these machines would charge, in which players would pay. I think there's any other way than by electronic typing into what you're going to put into the bar, which will simply be out of the question. 'Cause if you do anything, you're gonna make a mess that the IRS won't be able to control. This way, if you seal the machine, if the tax administration in there has a chip that will be able to take it out later on as much as it's paid because it's paid, if it's specifically recorded at the cash register, then those things can be controlled. However, we should also remember when we talk about casinos and when we are suddenly full of concerns about this or that, when a smoking ban law has been passed in Croatia, then the owners of the casinos kumila and asked that casinos be excluded from it because simply in this gambling passion they say that alcohol, cigarettes and gambling apparatus is something special that these people want and will do, but then they did not give in. And we now, in my opinion it was benign then because I say, gambling space is limited and there just come people who enjoy it. But now we're talking about a vice that we just put into the hands of all the citizens, and we don't look at things, there's things that don't matter to us. But I repeat, it's very important that, here in the law it doesn't stand, but it's such an ad hoc numbered, it can be money, it can be what it is, it's very important, these machines not only in restaurants, cafes and restaurants, but also in clubs to be exclusively possible by electronic means, so when 100 kuna is paid electronically to fit 100 kuna and player until it expires. And there's no such thing in this law, but it was something to be discussed later, but I'm telling you, in my opinion, a key question for all of us, colleagues and fellow MPs, whether we're going to allow this item 2, that's special machines in catering facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12458	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12459	Your Honor, Mr. President. I hope you won't take my word for it now like you did yesterday when you were wrong. This is a replica to Mr. Shuker. He was talking about the arrangement, so it seems to me that he didn't make it clear enough, and I'd like to help him a little bit about what this law, or the bill, is regulated. I don't think this bill introduces any order into this gambling activity, but it introduces a total mess, it's number one. Number 2 which the Croatian public, I want to say my opinion and should know that this bill makes all cafes and restaurants into casinos. And as number 3 as a doctor because Mr. Schucker asked for the help of a doctor, responsible as a doctor, I say / laugh/, not to help explain, responsible as a doctor, I claim that this absolutely necessary and automatically increases the degree or number of addicts in Croatia. Number four, that we in the Parliament are doing it here consciously, and we now need to ask ourselves, are we normal? And number five, I believe that all those who raise their hands for this should immediately be removed from parliamentary immunity and necessarily immediately to criminal responsibility. And number six, to make absolutely a bit of a classic explanation of what this is all about. If we're going to legalize prostitution that's as necessary as gambling as we're going to do it, so we're going to send prostitution off the street, from parks to a public house, and from a cafe to a place where it's legally done. And what about here, what you gentlemen are doing here from the SDP and the rest of you I don't know what the coalitions are called, you want to arrange for prostitution to be sent from the public house to the streets and to the cafes, etc. That's what you're doing. This is unforgivable in front of the Croatian public. This law, the bill of law should be withdrawn otherwise we need to ask ourselves if we are normal here and why the citizens are paying us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12460	Thank you. My colleague Marasovic, there was a day ago, as I recall, there was no... Here. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12461	Thank you. Well, here's Representative Schuker, after this medical assistance from MP Marasovic, you won't need mine anymore. I'm sorry that I have to find myself here in a situation that I really don't want to, which is to defend those who don't report for your replica, I mean, it's really not my intention. But let's take a look since those machines, poker machines are in the cafes, from the other half of the '80s. Poker machines and these appliances have been located in Croatian cafes since the second half of the 1980s, and they were there in the '90s, and since 2000 they are there today. So this law doesn't introduce them, it's trying to get certain groups that are now making extra profits on these machines, trying to cut them down. I mean, I'm sorry that I have to defend myself, I don't intend to defend myself, but I'm just trying to work it out because it's really not about bringing in these machines, it's about trying to put together some kind of profit control on those groups that are now quite illegally garnering that money. And our support in the first row is to try these illegal groups, support is to prevent them from taking that money away. We are not supporters of these appliances either in cafes or nowhere, and if you, as HDZ, will ever submit any legal proposal to remove bookies that are actually today the main problem of addiction in Croatia, you will surely have my support, now I speak for myself. So let's get rid of the bookies, get rid of them. They're the cause of addiction. We've had our chance to shut them down before, so let's call them off today or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12462	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12463	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Djurovic, your replica and your debate are a little contradictory. But when we talk about personal machines, then we need to figure out what poker machines are, and what special machines are. Therefore, they were regulated by a certain law. Unfortunately, though, most of them were as they were. But when you talk about bookies, so at the time the Internet betting was introduced, it's better for you to regulate it legally and how much charge in the state budget something than for all your money to go across the border and that you have nothing, and you can't stop it. So when I talk about some things, I said that when we have this technological progress, the area of the cube can't be arranged permanently. It's something that evaluates, which progresses, people every year. It is a product, and let's say our Croatian lottery, which is a state-owned company, and I said it is necessary to bring the area into order as much as possible for reasons why, look at the state budget. You have a government every year making a decision on the allocation of funds belonging to the state from gambling, so you will see how much good things in Croatia are financed from these funds. But when I was talking about special machines, I was talking about something that, unfortunately, you didn't recognize. So, I was talking about how these machines are simply considered, that's my opinion. I don't think they belong in the catering facilities, in the cafes. We can call each other for this or for that. But here we talk about the law, I'm talking about what's supposed to be tomorrow. So if we want to do something good tomorrow, we can say what was wrong. Why? Yes, of course. Anyone who does that and makes a mistake. But let's go if we have a chance to pass some law let's make a good law that we'll stop things from happening. I think that's why I'm saying that your debate is because you spoke in that direction and your replicas are diametrically opposite. Because when you add it all up, you want to do the same thing, you just ask yourself, do you think in that order that young people don't actually get offered a cube as soon as they get into the cafe? I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12464	Thank you. And next for the debate, Ruža Tomasic, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I actually have a few questions. He says the consequences that law-making will take place. Expecting a significant increase in local administration and self-government revenues. And I'd like you to define whether it's just for the sake of the county or the municipalities and the cities. And if it's both the community and the cities in which the ratio is, is that I don't know 40:60, 30:70 but to know if it's just a county or a local, as I said the municipality or the cities. It also says expected new employment in this activity, so I am very interested in what new jobs this would be, who would get these new jobs in this activity. And then in Article 6, says the fun automatics referred to in Article 2. Points 1 of this Act can be set up in specially decorated entertainment clubs, catering facilities and public spaces. I wonder how you'll regulate surveillance in public spaces. Then in Article 17, as some colleagues have already said the maximum stake to participate in a single game on a special machine, the maximum gain a player can make in this game can be at a maximum of 1:200, so I'm surprised when you've already listed countries that have a maximum investment, maximum payout why you're not here and whether you're going to specify this maximum investment and limit actually the stake and profit. And if you're going to write over every machine exactly how much it can be invested, how much it can get. And in Article 2 of this Act, the automatics referred to in Article 2(2) of this Act must be so constructed, i.e. they must be adjusted to return at least 80% of all the roles in the games on the machine to players in the form of winnings. And you'll define exactly what winnings. And at the end of the same gambling and betting we know it creates addiction and I'm interested in this profit whether the state will invest in the treatment of gambling addicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12466	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12467	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Tomasic, and I were tortured by the same questions, so I spoke about it in my debate, but as far as I can see here in the material, it says that it is the county's income alone. But I'm sure that both in Smokvica and Kopanica there are poker machines, so they belong and, Smokvica belongs to Split-Dalmatia, pardon Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, and Kopanica Brod-Posavina County and certainly has a bookshop. There may not be a post office anywhere, but the bookies certainly exist on all the local boards and yours, Dubrovnik-Neretva and our boat-posavia county. But I don't, some places don't have post offices. And the machine or the machine, the poker, or the like Mr. Shucker said, must be in the cafes. Now, the county will have to distribute by the number of these machines then and to the municipalities in its area some means in connection with these. At least that's how I think and that's how it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12468	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted. I'd like to ask the Deputy Minister finally to speak. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12469	Gentlemen, here's to listening to your debate today, I must say that I am extremely pleased with the way you've led the debate. This proposal that came from the government's side through your debate we actually saw, at least personally, that there are certainly a number of open issues that we have to solve, but here we are actually in this House of Commons to solve together. And because of that, another thanks to you and these materials as well as the General Tax Law I personally read them and you saw that even when the General Tax Law was passed, they were made between the first and the second readings much better improvements than the proposal itself. And I think it's actually the function of this High House to be corrective in that part and to make the best suggestions in that part. I thank you again for that. I hope that's the way it's gonna be when this law is passed. That's exactly why we're going in two readings. We opened up let's tell this law where everyone actually said let's say one longer period hadn't been opened this question. The question before which we actually knew that there was a closed eyes. And the question I wouldn't want to discuss further is that it's something illegal, that it's like it's not a problem, and now that we're trying to legalize that it's a problem. I wouldn't look at it like that, or I'd try to say through all of your proposals, actually, that the function of the state is to be responsible, to know what's going on in cities and municipalities, to know what's going on in such places and to try to prevent it from happening with all mechanisms. And that's why you're here to make suggestions on how to prevent it. And I think we're going in a good one-way direction to address not only these technical issues where I agree with you, but it's been open to some questions, and now I'm going to say a few about these technical issues to bring them into line and that they're getting better. It was a matter of maximum role and maximum gain. I absolutely agree with you, make suggestions. Is it well set 1 to 200? I don't know. You'll give me suggestions. Is that supposed to be some other ratio? I agree. Whether or not to be in the visible position marked? I couldn't agree more. Please make your suggestions, because in this particular section, so that what Mr. Shucker was saying would not have grown into some form of gambling, make proposals in that part and that in that part where we can correct it. We are also opening this question which I agree is the opinion of Mr. Shucker and his club whether it should be in the catering facilities. I agree there is a dilemma within the coalition itself whether it should be there and whether it should be in some other places, whether it should be in objects where there are now such automated clubs. I agree, we can discuss this, and if we decide most of the votes, we can transfer that part and let this just be the Fun Game Act. I don't mind. So I'm telling you again in person that in this debate of yours, we're actually trying to see all these opinions. Because no one's really intruding in this part where I've heard that now here we're intruding something and now we're actually going to boost addiction as if there's no such thing around us today. It's like these problems that we've been having for the last six months are like they haven't accumulated in 20 years. I would not want the debate to turn in this direction because it is a problem that the citizens have actually given you confidence to solve these problems. And that's why in this context we want to actually open the debate and all of your proposals that we're going to read and the amendments, we're actually ready to go to solve this problem. Furthermore, the same thing about whether it would be just county income? We have since been defined in the Law on Units of Local Self-Government remained in that part where we haven't changed that part where so far in this part was the income only of the county. I agree, why not the municipalities and cities. What percentage? I agree, let's discuss it. We said that we would go to decentralisation and agree that we should strengthen our municipalities and cities and financial capacity because only then do they have their true existence and ability to act. So in this part of it absolutely why not and that part of the income be. We said that we were at the beginning in the opening speech I said that this part of ours was the intensity not to put it immediately into the Law on Games of Happiness, that there would be no income of the state budget but was our intensity that through this law we would define it through the units, that it would immediately be the income of the county, I agree, the municipalities and cities should certainly be considered. Also, there was a nearness of schools and the use of such appliances. Absolutely, we need to do this, improve, limit and set up all these measures and mechanisms where we can not use them in this part. However, the question arises in defining such barriers because you today via the Internet, using new technologies and children who are under-age can also play poker through the Internet. So it's the same open question that's also a much wider problem than we're actually going to be able to solve with this law. I agree with what the HDSSB gentlemen said, the problem of banks, guarantees, how this ratio or this ratio is. Absolutely. So, make suggestions, actually in that part, let's improve that technical stuff. And I was also saying problems, so all of the technical problems you've been pointing out absolutely needing to be done, and that's why I'm glad that in this debate today you've been concrete in solving this problem. When we talk about this problem, it means it's a much wider gambling problem, when we're talking under quotes to actually solve that problem. And the only problem that can be solved is the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's representatives of new employment and fostering economic growth, no different. The question has been asked why did our citizens find themselves in such a position? Because they don't have a job. Because they're disappointed in the institutions of this country. Because they're disappointed in institutions to solve their problems. That's why our citizens are facing this vice. I'm now asking you the same thing in your High House here, are we all together responsible for this situation in society? No matter who it was, we're not talking about any political option. And I think that this debate today is just a positive way of solving the problem and so I would ask you to do a lot more concrete and much more concrete of these proposals, so let's try to solve it. But I'm telling you, without hiring our young people, we won't unfortunately solve this addiction problem. We need young people to start working, to start taking care of their families as soon as possible, to actually start this incentive of employment, it was this one of the government measures where we said young people actually through this form of employment where this debate of 1600 kunas was now opened or not. Yes, work, work, gentlemen. The work will get this country out. And young people in this direction if we raise them, in fact, that only by their work will they be able to achieve in life and have some values will not turn to this kind of gambling, etc. But unfortunately, in the state, we haven't really given a message all these years that work can live. And that's the problem. Unfortunately, the work in the country cannot be lived, and that is why everyone is turning to solving their life problems through the cube. And I think this way of solving the problem right now needs to be looked at through a series of measures, not just through this legislation. So here I thank you once again for this controversy of yours, and we will certainly adopt your proposals in another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12470	Thank you, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. By 12 o'clock, I'll determine the recess and at 12 o'clock is the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-06-0.u12471	We move on to a statement on the proposal of the Law on Fun and Special Machines for the game, first reading, PZ No. 114. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. A proposal for the Act on Fun and Special Machines for the Game is adopted and 1. Any objections to the proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 1 against and 32 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work at the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. We will now discuss as we have announced - The final proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. When making a decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, which shall be Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate as provided for in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Joseph Leko, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Vice-President of the House. Here you go.
